# Accursed

**description**: A drow enters a tavern, hitting his head on the door frame and tripping on a chair leg. As he rises back to his feet, a brawl begins amongst a couple other patrons. With a look, a sigh, and flick of his wrist, the brawlers both slip on an errant puddle of grog, hit their heads on tabletops, and fall unconscious. Finally arriving at the bar, the drow can enjoy his drinks. An elf argues with herself as she engages an orc raiding party in combat. Recalcitrantly, a spirit exits the elf’s body, a thin cord of Ethereal energy connecting the two, and fights alongside her, unleashing a terrible scream that causes the bandits all to drop dead of fright. Wielding a terrible blade, a human engages the palace guards, slicing her adversaries in twain as if they were cloth. An archer comes around the corner, and she throws her sword, impaling the guard before he can even nock an arrow. As the vile weapon reappears in her outstretched hand, she saunters into the throne room, staring at the quivering king with death in her eyes. At last, the crown is hers. Accurseds are afflicted with a permanent magic that is inconvenient at best and debilitating at worst. But magic is still magic, and accurseds have found a way to harness the power of their curse to their own ends, while managing some of the worst symptoms of their condition. Either way, their curse is now theirs to use however they see fit. Unending Affliction Most curses used by mortals — such as the hex and bestow curse spells — are temporary, a simple inconvenience until the magic expires. For each accursed, though, the affliction is permanent, a powerful magic that never fades. These curses can be received through many means: gaining the ire of a deity, a large coven of hags, or a powerful extraplanar entity; inheriting it by being born into a cursed family line; touching a cursed object; being hit by a volatile spell that was incorrectly cast; or receiving the curse from the bite or scratch of another cursed creature, among a slew of other possibilities. Curse’s Conqueror The vast majority of people who receive a permanent curse consign themselves to their fate, either finding a way to live with their curse’s adverse effects or giving themselves fully to the curse’s compulsions. A creature becomes an accursed by following a different path. Accurseds are rare, not due to lack of people becoming cursed, but because those who suffer these curses often lack the conviction to resist them. An accursed dedicates their time and willpower to find a way to make the magic of their curse work for them, though each in their own way. Some accurseds experiment in a lab or scour the world for forgotten lore, trying to find a ritual or alchemical concoction. Others turn to nature or faith, using prayer, meditation, or mindfulness to synthesize the curse’s magic into their own being. And others still use sheer stubbornness to bend the curse to their will. Regardless of method, an accursed is one who has conquered their curse, drawing on its magic while managing its lingering side effects. Creating an Accursed When creating an accursed, the most important aspect to consider is your curse itself. What is your curse’s nature, and how did you receive it? As a starting character, you’ll choose the nature of your curse, but exactly how you received it is up to you. Did you or one of your ancestors anger a god or other powerful entity? Was the curse transferred to you by another afflicted individual? Or did some magic ritual go awry with you in proximity? Another important aspect of creating an accursed is how you came to be in control of your curse’s power. Did you study and experiment? Did you harmonize with it? Or did you stubbornly refuse to let it control you? What do you plan to do with this power you’ve attained? A curse is a magic of vile energies created to inflict suffering. Do you use this magic for its intended purpose, conquering and slaying for your own gain? Or do you resist the magic’s nature and use it to become a champion of the downtrodden, a hero who can empathize with great suffering? It’s your power now, so only you can decide what to do with it. Quick Build You can make an accursed quickly by following these suggestions. Your highest score depends greatly on the Conquered Curse you choose: make Strength your highest ability score for a Conquered Curse that relies on melee or thrown weapons, Dexterity your highest ability score for one that relies on finesse or ranged weapons, or your choice of curse ability — Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma — for one that relies on the use of the curse’s magical effects. If Strength or Dexterity is your highest ability score, your next-highest should be your choice of curse ability, followed by Constitution; for the more magically oriented Conquered Curses, make your next-highest ability score Constitution, followed by Dexterity. Then, choose the folk hero background. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d10 per accursed level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per accursed level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor, medium armor Weapons: Simple weapons, hand crossbows Tools: None Saving Throws: Wisdom, and your choice of Intelligence or Charisma Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, and Survival Starting Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: ( a ) scale mail or ( b ) leather armor ( a ) a hand crossbow and 20 bolts or ( b ) a martial weapon of your choice (if proficient) ( a ) an arcane focus, ( b ) a druidic focus, or ( c ) a holy symbol ( a ) an explorer’s pack, ( b ) a priest’s pack, or ( c ) a scholar’s pack Any two simple weapons Multiclassing and the Accursed If your group uses the optional rule on multiclassing in the Player’s Handbook , here’s what you need to know if you choose accursed as one of your classes. Ability Score Minimum. As a multiclass character, you must have an Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score of at least 13 to take a level in this class, or to take a level in another class if you are already an accursed. Proficiencies Gained. If accursed isn’t your initial class, here are the proficiencies you gain when you take your first level as an accursed: light armor, medium armor, simple weapons. Spell Slots. Add half your levels in the accursed class to the appropriate levels from other classes to determine your available spell slots. The Accursed Level Proficiency Bonus Features Malediction Metamorphoses Spells Known Spells Slots Per Level 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 1st +2 Conquered Curse, Jinx — — — — — — — 2nd +2 Malediction Metamorphosis, Spellcasting, Ailment Control 1 2 2 — — — — 3rd +2 Conquered Curse feature, Jealous Blight 1 3 3 — — — — 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement, Malediction Versatility 1 3 3 — — — — 5th +3 Conquered Curse feature 1 5 4 2 — — — 6th +3 — 2 5 4 2 — — — 7th +3 Jealous Blight improvement 2 6 4 3 — — — 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 2 6 4 3 — — — 9th +4 — 2 8 4 3 2 — — 10th +4 — 3 8 4 3 2 — — 11th +4 Conquered Curse feature 3 9 4 3 3 — — 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 3 9 4 3 3 — — 13th +5 — 3 11 4 3 3 1 — 14th +5 Jealous Blight improvement 4 11 4 3 3 1 — 15th +5 Conquered Curse feature 4 12 4 3 3 2 — 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 4 12 4 3 3 2 — 17th +6 — 4 14 4 3 3 3 1 18th +6 — 5 14 4 3 3 3 1 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 5 15 4 3 3 3 2 20th +6 Conquered Curse feature, Jealous Blight improvement 5 15 4 3 3 3 2 Class Features As an accursed, you gain the following class features, which are summarized in the Accursed table. Conquered Curse Through unfortunate circumstances, you were stricken with a curse that should have broken you. However, whether by sheer willpower, introspective meditation, or arcane study, you not only overcame the worst of the challenges your curse presented, but learned to harness its power. Choose the curse you conquered: Curse of Animation, Curse of the Armament, Curse of Combustion, Curse of the Created, Curse of Immortality, Curse of Misfortune, Curse of Mummification, Curse of Petrification, or Curse of Somnolence. All conquered curses are detailed at the end of the class. Your curse has become an integral part of you. The remove curse spell, as well as any similar effect, has no effect on your curse when it is cast on you. If your curse takes the form of a magical disease, you can’t be cured of it by any means. Your choice grants you features at 1st level, and again at 3rd, 5th, 11th, 15th, and 20th level, as well as a list of curse spells (detailed in the Spellcasting class feature). Ailments Each curse has ailments caused by its lingering effects. They are inconvenient, and occasionally dangerous, detriments to which you are always subject, and are referred to by features you gain later in this class. Curse Ability & Curse Save DC Some of your accursed features require your target to make a saving throw to resist the feature’s effects. Due to the varying ways that an accursed can overcome their affliction, not all utilize the same ability score to control it. Choose Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma as your curse ability. You should choose Intelligence if you scoured the multiverse for secrets that allow you to manage your curse using rituals or minor magical practices, Wisdom if you used introspective meditation techniques to harmonize with your curse and make it a part of you, or Charisma if you conquered your curse through sheer force of will or by bargaining with it. Depending on the curse ability you chose, the saving throw DC of your accursed features is calculated as follows: Curse save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your curse ability modifier Jinx As an action, you can attempt to bestow a minor curse on a creature you can see within 30 feet of you. That creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become subject to your choice of one of the following jinxes until the end of your next turn: The target has disadvantage on the next ability check it makes. The target has disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes against a creature of your choice that you can see. If a creature can see you when you use this feature, it knows that you are the source of the jinx. Until the target makes the type of roll associated with the jinx, you can use your action on subsequent turns to maintain the effect, extending the jinx’s duration until the end of your next turn. However, the jinx ends once the target makes the associated type of roll, if you are more than 90 feet from the target, or if any of the dispel magic , greater restoration , or remove curse spells is cast on the target. Malediction Metamorphosis Starting at 2nd level, your curse begins evolving within you, changed by your manipulation of its purpose. You can guide this mutation to compliment your capabilities, or open new avenues of power for yourself. You gain one malediction metamorphosis of your choice. Your metamorphosis options are listed at the end of the class’s description. When you reach certain accursed levels, you gain additional metamorphoses of your choice, as shown in the Malediction Metamorphoses column of the Accursed table. Spellcasting At 2nd level, you learn to use your curse’s vile magicks to fuel the casting of spells. See Chapter 10 in the Player’s Handbook for the general rules of spellcasting. Spell Slots The Accursed table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these spells, you must expend a spell slot of the spell’s level or higher. You regain all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest. Curse Spells Each Conquered Curse has a list of spells — its curse spells — that you learn when you reach certain levels in this class, as shown in the curse description. These spells are added to the accursed spell list for you and are included in the number in the Spells Known column of the Accursed table. You ignore the material component requirement of a curse spell if it has one. Spells Known of 1st Level and Higher You know the curse spell you gain at 2nd level from your Conquered Curse, and one 1st-level spell of your choice from the accursed spell list, for a total of two spells known. The Spells Known column of the Accursed table shows when you learn more spells of your choice from the accursed spell list. Each of these spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For example, when you reach 5th level in this class, you learn one new spell of 1st or 2nd level, in addition to the curse spell you gain at 5th level from your Conquered Curse. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the accursed spells you know — which can be one of your curse spells — and replace it with another spell from the accursed spell list, which must also be of a level for which you have spell slots. Spellcasting Ability Your curse ability is your spellcasting ability for your accursed spells, since your ability to cast spells comes from the control you have over your curse’s power. You use your curse ability whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your curse ability modifier when setting the saving throw DC for an accursed spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one. Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your curse ability modifier Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your curse ability modifier Spellcasting Focus When you gain this feature, choose arcane foci, druidic foci, or holy symbols, depending on how you discovered to channel your curse. You can use the chosen type of implement or a cursed object as a spellcasting focus (found in chapter 5 of the Player’s Handbook ) for your accursed spells. Accursed Spell List Here’s the list of spells you consult when you learn an accursed spell. The list is organized by spell level, not character level. Many of these spells are from the Player’s Handbook . If a spell’s name is followed by the XGE superscript, the spell can be found in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything . Additionally, spells with the UAH superscript are original spells that can be found in Chapter 4: Feats & Spells . 1st Level Bane (enchantment) Cause fear XGE (necromancy) Clumsiness infusion UAH (transmutation) Curse shock UAH (necromancy) Detect evil and good (divination) Detect magic (divination, ritual) Drain UAH (necromancy) Evil eye UAH (necromancy) Hatred infusion UAH (enchantment) Hex (enchantment) Inflict wounds (necromancy) Terror infusion UAH (necromancy) 2nd Level Blindness/deafness (necromancy) Corrode metal UAH (transmutation) Darkness (evocation) Hex bolt UAH (necromancy) Hold person (enchantment) Knock (transmutation) Ray of enfeeblement (necromancy) Shadow blade XGE (illusion) Sorrow infusion UAH (enchantment) Throat rend UAH (necromancy) Wave of agony UAH (necromancy) 3rd Level Bestow curse (necromancy) Bloodlust infusion UAH (enchantment) Counterspell (abjuration) Dispel magic (abjuration) Hex storm UAH (necromancy) Enemies abound XGE (enchantment) Fear (illusion) Nondetection (abjuration) Remove curse (abjuration) Scourge’s mantle UAH (necromancy) Shadow bow UAH (illusion) Vampiric touch (necromancy) 4th Level Blight (necromancy) Confusion (enchantment) Curse ward UAH (abjuration, ritual) Death burst UAH (necromancy) Elemental bane XGE (transmutation) Polymorph (transmutation) Shadow of moil XGE (necromancy) Sickening radiance XGE (evocation) Susceptibility infusion UAH (transmutation) 5th Level Antilife shell (abjuration) Apathy infusion UAH (enchantment) Bestow malediction UAH (necromancy) Dispel caster UAH (necromancy) Enervation XGE (necromancy) Hex infusion UAH (necromancy) Hold monster (enchantment) Stolen life UAH (necromancy) Ailment Control Starting at 2nd level, you can also use your spell slots to exert control over your curse’s ailments, either afflicting another creature with one of your ailments or suppressing your ailments’ effects on yourself. The duration of the effect depends on the level of the spell slot expended to use it: 1 minute for a 1st-level spell slot, 10 minutes for a 2nd-level, 1 hour for a 3rd-level, 8 hours for a 4th-level, or 24 hours for a spell slot of 5th-level or higher. Afflict. As an action, you can expend a spell slot to attempt to afflict a creature within 30 feet that you can see with your choice of one of your curse’s ailments. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or suffer the chosen ailment for the duration. At the end of each of an afflicted creature’s turns, it can repeat the saving throw, ending its affliction on a successful save. A dispel magic , greater restoration , or remove curse spell cast on the target also ends its affliction. Suppress. As a bonus action, you can expend a spell slot and choose any number of your curse’s ailments. You ignore the effects of the chosen ailments for the duration. Jealous Blight At 3rd level, your curse begins possessively guarding you from others of its ilk, refusing to share its host. When you touch or attune to a cursed object other than your curse, it doesn’t stop being cursed, but the object’s curse doesn’t affect you. Once you reach 7th level in this class, your curse protects you from a wider range of effects. You are immune to curse effects other than your curse, such as the hex and bestow curse spells, and your hit point maximum and ability scores can’t be reduced against your will. Once you reach 14th level in this class, a magical effect other than your curse can’t age you, possess you, put you to sleep, or transform you against your will. Once you reach 20th level in this class, a magical effect other than your curse can’t impose disadvantage on any roll you make. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Malediction Versatility Starting at 4th level, whenever you reach a level in this class that grants the Ability Score Improvement feature, you can replace one of your metamorphoses with a different metamorphosis for which you qualify. If you’re 12th level or higher and replacing a metamorphosis causes you to no longer meet another metamorphosis’ prerequisites, you must replace that metamorphosis as well. For example, if you choose to replace your Arcane Anathema metamorphosis with Enshrouding Imprecation, you must also replace the Capacious Anathema metamorphosis if you have it because you would no longer meet its prerequisites. Since you chose Enshrouding Imprecation, you can replace Capacious Anathema with any other metamorphosis that doesn’t have a prerequisite, or with the Muffling Imprecation or Sleighting Imprecation metamorphosis because you now meet its prerequisites. You can’t use this feature to choose a metamorphosis with an 18th level prerequisite, unless the metamorphosis you are replacing has that prerequisite. Malediction Metamorphoses If a malediction metamorphosis has prerequisites, you must meet them to choose it. You can choose the metamorphosis at the same time you meet its prerequisites. The metamorphoses are presented in groups by level prerequisite (2nd, 10th, and 18th), and alphabetically within those groups. If you’re having difficulty picturing how metamorphoses connect to higher-level metamorphoses that have prerequisites, see the Malediction Metamorphosis Trees diagram at the end of the metamorphosis descriptions. Arcane Anathema Your curse is disruptive to other forms of magic. As an action, you can touch a creature and attempt to free it from a spell’s effects. Make a curse ability check against a DC equal to 10 + twice the spell’s level. On a success, you end the effects of the spell on the target. This has no effect on any of the spell’s other targets. Bolstering Suppression Your curse protects you when you give it a nudge. When you use your Suppress, you gain temporary hit points equal to your accursed level + your curse ability modifier. You lose any remaining temporary hit points from this ability when the Suppress ends. Enshrouding Imprecation Your curse’s magicks coat you like a shadowy cloak. You can Hide as a bonus action on your turn. Additionally, while you’re in dim light or darkness, you can attempt to hide even from a creature that can see you. Fecund Affliction Your curse gleefully spreads its effects to other victims. Once, you can use your Afflict without expending a spell slot. Its duration is 1 minute. You regain the use of this ability when you finish a short or long rest. Hex Armor When you’re in danger, the magicks of your curse manifest around you like a suit of armor. Your AC can’t be less than 13 + your curse ability modifier, regardless of what kind of armor you’re wearing. Hostile Bane Your curse imbues your attacks with its dark magicks. Once during each of your turns when you hit a creature with an attack, you can cause the attack to deal additional necrotic damage equal to your curse ability modifier (minimum 1). Scourge Speech Whenever you speak, you can imbue your voice with the power and vile nature of your curse, causing it to boom up to three times as loud as normal. Additionally, whenever you make a Charisma (Intimidation) or Charisma (Persuasion) check, you can gain a bonus to the check equal to your curse ability modifier (minimum +1). When you use either of these abilities, your voice gains an unsettling supernatural quality. Swift Jinx Your curse excitedly responds to being used for jinxes. You can use your Jinx as a bonus action. When you do, you can’t use your action to maintain the jinx on your subsequent turns, even if the creature hasn’t made the associated type of roll. Capacious Anathema Prerequisite : 10th level, Arcane Anathema When you use your Arcane Anathema and succeed on the ability check, you can choose up to five other creatures within 30 feet of the target that you can see that are also affected by the spell. You end the spell’s effects on each of the chosen creatures. Once you use this ability, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Eldritch Bane Prerequisite : 10th Level, Hostile Bane Once during each of your turns when you roll damage for an accursed class feature or accursed spell that doesn’t include an attack, you can add your curse ability modifier (minimum 1) to the damage roll. Enervating Jinx Prerequisite : 10th Level, Swift Jinx The following jinxes are added to the list of options you can choose when a creature fails its Wisdom saving throw against your Jinx feature: When the target makes its next damage roll for a spell, it rolls the damage dice twice and uses the lower result. When the target makes its next damage roll for a weapon, it rolls the damage dice twice and uses the lower result. You can use these jinx options a total number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain your expended uses when you finish a long rest. Hex Aura Prerequisite : 10th level, Hex Armor When a creature you can see within 30 feet of you causes you to take damage, you can use your reaction to cast hex on that creature, without expending a spell slot. When you cast the spell with this ability, it ends early if the target drops to 0 hit points. Hex Plate Prerequisite : 10th level, Hex Armor Your AC can’t be less than 16 + your curse ability modifier, regardless of what kind of armor you’re wearing. Infectious Affliction Prerequisite : 10th level, Fecund Affliction When your affliction ends on a creature before its full duration has elapsed, you can use your reaction to attempt to afflict a different creature you can see within 30 feet of the previously afflicted creature. The new target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become the sufferer of the affliction for its remaining duration. Instinctual Suppression Prerequisite : 10th level, Bolstering Suppression When you roll initiative, you can use your reaction to use your Suppress. If you do, you gain a +4 bonus to your AC until the end of your next turn. You can take this reaction even if you are surprised. Martial Bane Prerequisite : 10th level, Hostile Bane You lose the benefits of your Hostile Bane. Instead, each time you hit a creature with a weapon attack on your turn, you can cause the attack to deal additional necrotic damage equal to your curse ability modifier (minimum 1). Muffling Imprecation Prerequisite : 10th level, Enshrouding Imprecation While you’re in dim light or darkness, you can ignore the verbal components of your accursed spells and you gain a bonus to Dexterity (Stealth) checks equal to your curse ability modifier (minimum +1). Obstinate Anathema Prerequisite : 10th level, Arcane Anathema When you are incapacitated, paralyzed, petrified, or stunned by a spell’s effects, you are still able to use your action, provided that you aren’t unconscious and the only action you take is to use your Arcane Anathema. Prolific Affliction Prerequisite : 10th level, Fecund Affliction When you spend a spell slot of 2nd-level or higher to use your Afflict, instead of increasing the affliction’s duration, you can choose an additional target for each slot level above 1st. If you do, each target that fails its saving throw is afflicted for 1 minute. Resistant Suppression Prerequisite : 10th level, Bolstering Suppression When you use your Suppress, you gain resistance to any damage type of your choice. You lose this resistance when the Suppress ends or you use your Suppress again. Scourge Sense Prerequisite: 10th Level, Scourge Speech You can cast the detect evil and good and detect magic spells at will, without expending a spell slot. While you concentrate on either spell, you are also aware if any creature or object within 30 feet of you is cursed, and can use your action on your turn to learn the properties of a curse affecting one such creature or object. Scourge Visage Prerequisite : 10th Level, Scourge Speech As an action, you can cause the magicks of your curse to manifest around you as a horrifying visage. The visage intangibly coats your entire body and anything you’re wearing or carrying, and can look like a cloak, a suit of armor, or another type of inanimate covering that obscures your features. While you’re cloaked in the visage, ability checks made to ascertain your emotional state or whether you’re lying automatically fail, and whenever an enemy within 5 feet of you that can see you makes a saving throw against being frightened, it subtracts your curse ability modifier (minimum 1) from the roll. The visage remains until you become incapacitated or you choose to dismiss it (no action required). Sleighting Imprecation Prerequisite : 10th Level, Enshrouding Imprecation While you’re in dim light or darkness, you can ignore the somatic components of your accursed spells, you gain a bonus to Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) and Dexterity (Thieves’ Tools) checks equal to your curse ability modifier (minimum +1) , and you can magically form the magicks of your curse into a set of thieves’ tools whenever you would make an ability check using thieves’ tools. Startling Jinx Prerequisite : 10th level, Swift Jinx The following jinxes are added to the list of options you can choose when a creature fails its Wisdom saving throw against your Jinx feature: The target has disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes against being frightened. The target has disadvantage on the next Constitution saving throw it makes to maintain its concentration. Adaptive Malediction Prerequisite : 18th level When you finish a short rest, you can choose to replace one of your other metamorphoses with a different metamorphosis, and when you finish a long rest, you can choose to replace any number of your other metamorphoses with different metamorphoses. To choose a replacement metamorphosis, you must meet its prerequisites, and it can’t have an 18th level prerequisite. If replacing a metamorphosis causes you to no longer meet another metamorphosis’ prerequisites, you must also replace that metamorphosis. If you are replacing two or more metamorphoses simultaneously with this ability, you can choose a metamorphosis at the same time you choose its prerequisite metamorphosis. Crippling Jinx Prerequisite : 18th level, Enervating Jinx or Startling Jinx The following jinxes are added to the list of options you can choose when a creature fails its Wisdom saving throw against your Jinx feature: The target has disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes. The target has disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes. Once you use this jinx on a creature, you must finish a long rest before you can use it on that creature again. Dispelling Anathema Prerequisite : 18th level, Capacious Anathema or Obstinate Anathema You learn the dispel caster UAH spell if you don’t already know it. It doesn’t count against the number of accursed spells you know. You can cast dispel caster once, without expending a spell slot. When you do, you must finish a long rest before you can cast it with this ability again. Additionally, when you make an ability check as part of your Arcane Anathema, you add your proficiency bonus to that ability check. Doubling Jinx Prerequisite : 18th level, Enervating Jinx or Startling Jinx When you use your Jinx, you can target a second creature within range. If both targets fail their Wisdom saving throw against the feature, you can choose a different jinx for each target. If neither jinxed target makes the associated type of roll before the end of your next turn, you can use the same action to maintain both jinxes, given that the jinx hasn’t ended for another reason and you are able to maintain the jinx. Facile Suppression Prerequisite : 18th level, Instinctual Suppression or Resistant Suppression You can use your Suppress at will, without expending a spell slot. When you use Suppress with this ability, the Suppress doesn’t end until you die or until you choose to end it (no action required). Explosive Bane Prerequisite : 18th level, Eldritch Bane or Martial Bane Once during each of your turns when you hit a creature with an attack or deal damage to it with an accursed spell, you can cause the target to take an additional 1d8 necrotic damage from the attack or spell. When you use this ability, you can also choose to expend a spell slot to cause the creature to take an additional 1d8 necrotic damage per level of the expended spell slot. Hex Phalanx Prerequisite : 18th level, Hex Aura or Hex Plate Your curse recognizes your allies and will protect them while they are alongside you. As long as one or more friendly creatures are within 5 feet of you, each of those creatures gains a bonus to its AC, and you and each of those creatures gains a bonus to any Strength or Dexterity saving throw it makes. The bonus is equal to your curse ability modifier (minimum +1). You and at least one friendly creature within 5 feet of you must be conscious to gain the bonus. Hex Shield Prerequisite : 18th level, Hex Aura or Hex Plate You can concentrate your curse’s magicks to deflect weapons and magic. Whenever you take damage, you can use your reaction to halve the amount of damage you take. Immune Suppression Prerequisite : 18th level, Instinctual Suppression or Resistant Suppression When you use your Suppress, choose one of the following damage types: acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, necrotic, poison, psychic, radiant, or thunder. You gain immunity to the chosen damage type until the Suppress ends or you use your Suppress again. Insidious Imprecation Prerequisite : 18th level, Muffling Imprecation or Sleighting Imprecation If you’re hidden from a creature when one of your accursed features or an accursed spell you cast requires the creature to make a saving throw, it has disadvantage on any saving throw it makes against the spell or feature this turn. Negating Anathema Prerequisite : 18th level, Capacious Anathema or Obstinate Anathema When you become the target of a spell, you can use your reaction to attempt to negate the spell’s effects on yourself. If the spell is of 5th level or lower, the spell fails to affect you. If the spell is of 6th level or higher, you must make a curse ability check with DC equal to 15 + the spell’s level; on a success, the spell fails to affect you. You must be able to see the source of the spell to use this ability, and this ability has no effect on the spell’s other targets. Scourge Attunement Prerequisite : 18th Level, Scourge Sense or Scourge Visage You can attune to three additional magic items, provided that each of the additional items is cursed. If a cursed item you’re attuned to is a weapon or suit of armor, you are considered proficient with the item for the duration of your attunement to it. Scourge Presence Prerequisite : 18th Level, Scourge Sense or Scourge Visage As a bonus action, you can force each creature of your choice that can see or hear you within 30 feet of you to make a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. At the start of each of its turns, a creature frightened by this ability takes 2d8 psychic damage if it can see or hear you, or can repeat the saving throw if it can’t see or hear you, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this ability until you finish a long rest. Transferring Affliction Prerequisite : 18th level, Infectious Affliction or Prolific Affliction When one or more creatures fail their saving throw against your Afflict, you can choose to ignore the effects of the chosen ailment for the duration. If you do, the afflicted creature has disadvantage on saving throws it makes to end its affliction and takes 1d8 necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns for the duration. Umbral Imprecation Prerequisite : 18th level, Muffling Imprecation or Sleighting Imprecation If you don’t already have darkvision, you gain darkvision to a range of 60 feet. Magical darkness doesn’t impede your darkvision. Additionally, your curse creates a shadowy gloom around you. While in an area of bright light, you count as being in dim light; while in an area of dim light, you count as being in darkness; and while in an area of darkness, you count as being in magical darkness. Vengeful Bane Prerequisite : 18th level, Eldritch Bane or Martial Bane When a creature you can see within 30 feet of you causes you to take damage, you can use your reaction to make a weapon attack against that creature or cast an accursed spell at the creature, given that the creature is within range. The spell must have a casting time of 1 action and target only that creature. If the creature would take damage from the attack or spell, it takes additional necrotic damage equal to your curse ability modifier (minimum 1). Vile Affliction Prerequisite : 18th level, Infectious Affliction or Prolific Affliction You can use your Afflict as a bonus action on your turn. Additionally, when you use your Afflict, you can choose any number of your ailments. If a target fails its saving throw, it suffers each of the chosen ailments for the duration. Malediction Metamorphosis Trees The “trees” created by the metamorphoses’ prerequisites can be hard to understand by simply reading them. Below is a visual representation of how these trees work, based on what family of metamorphoses they belong to. Conquered Curses Accurseds, once they take control of the magic of their curse, find themselves in a rather unique situation: they are able to study the malediction in ways that few other creatures can, learning the true makeup of its magicks. Most are surprised to find that the common beliefs held about the nature of their particular affliction are misconceptions, though this isn’t the case for all accurseds. Learning to utilize the core of their curse’s magic is at the heart of an accursed’s progression of power. Curse of Animation Curse of the Armament Curse of Combustion Curse of the Created Curse of Immortality Curse of Misfortune Curse of Mummification Curse of Petrification Curse of Somnolence

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 20542

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

