# Acolyte

**description**: The destiny of Rokugan rests in mortal hands, but that does not mean that cosmic powers never deign to push the outcome in one direction or another. Acolytes are the mortal agents of immortal causes. Unlike ritualists, who invoke the power of spirits and gods through ceremony and practice, acolytes bring this power into their bodies and souls, altering their mortal identities to accommodate such vast and unknowable depths. Thus, the abilities of acolytes are often subtle, yet incredibly impactful in their execution. These abilities are often externalized through marks of power, such as mystical tattoos or brands that appear on the body, symbolizing and amplifying the acolyte’s bond to a greater cosmic force. Traditions From the perspective of the world, acolytes are extremely rare compared to the other classes in Adventures in Rokugan . Thus, there are few acolyte traditions. Two are covered in this book, though the GM and players should certainly feel free to create others, for which the GM and players could work together to reinterpret the flavor of the abilities of one of these traditions as desired. Togashi Order Togashi did not leave behind a dynasty of lineal descendants like his siblings. However, he did create a family to carry on his legacy: the Togashi Order. Members of the order are the reincarnations of Togashi’s original followers in life, finding their way back to the High House of Light in the mountainous Dragon lands each lifetime. The order helps these individuals to expand their abilities across multiple lifetimes, tattooing them with signs of their spiritual progress. These tattoos, derived from the lifeblood of Togashi himself, act as channels to his power, allowing his acolytes to wield incredible abilities as the founder of the Dragon Clan once did. Through his acolytes, Togashi is able to carry on his grand design even though he has not been seen in the flesh in centuries. Acolytes of Shadow It is from Nothing that the universe sprang and, some say, to Nothing it will return. The primal uncreation is a force of the cosmos beyond good or evil, without will or thought, yet it hungers all the same. There are orders of philosophical practitioners dedicated to its study, to harnessing its unfathomable power through careful meditation and study…and then there are acolytes who leap headlong into the abyss. How the secret of Shadow Brands came to the Scorpion Clan is unknown, but by sealing a sliver of the abyss into one’s own body in the form of a tenebrous mark, and by letting some part of the primal uncreation into themselves, the bearer of the Shadow Brand can crack reality itself in their favor. Yet as a Shadow Brand grows in power, so too does the hungering shard of unmaking they have let into their body and soul… Quick Builds If you select the Acolyte of Togashi archetype, make Strength your highest ability score, then make sure your Constitution is high so that you can stay in the fray of battle. If you select the Acolyte of Shadows archetype, make Dexterity your highest ability score, then make Wisdom your next highest ability score to avoid being caught unawares. A number of iconic acolytes can be found in the more detailed quick builds provided in the Backgrounds section, such as the Togashi Tattooed Acolyte and Soshi Shadow Agent. Table 2-12: The Acolyte Level Proficiency Bonus Features 1st +2 Acolyte Archetype 2nd +2 Acolyte Archetype Feature, Ego Synthesis 3rd +2 Acolyte Archetype Feature, Renewing Purpose 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 Ego Synthesis (Improved), Eternal Student 6th +3 Acolyte Archetype Feature (or Improvement) 7th +3 Disciplined Approach 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 Acolyte Archetype Feature (or Improvement) 10th +4 Expanded Mind 11th +4 Acolyte Archetype Feature 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 A Greater Purpose 14th +5 Acolyte Archetype Feature (or Improvement) 15th +5 Strength in Clarity 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 Acolyte Archetype Feature (or Improvement) 18th +6 Transcendent Surge 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 Acolyte Archetype Feature (or Improvement) Class Features As an acolyte, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d10 per acolyte level Hit points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per acolyte level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light Weapons: Simple and martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Wisdom Skills: Choose three skills from Acrobatics, Athletics, History, Insight, Medicine, Nature, Perception, Persuasion, Religion, and Stealth Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) concealed armor or (b) silk armor any one martial weapon (a) any two simple weapons or (b) 10 shuriken Acolyte Archetypes At 1st level, you choose an acolyte archetype that reflects the cosmic being with which you have a unique relationship. Choose Acolyte of Togashi or Acolyte of Shadows. The acolyte archetype you choose grants you features at 1st level, and again at 2nd, 3rd, 6th, 9th, 11th, 14th, 17th, and 20th level. Ego Synthesis Starting at 2nd level, you give yourself over to the world for guidance. When you complete a long rest, you gain inspiration. Starting at 5th level, you gain inspiration when you complete a long or short rest. Renewing Purpose At 3rd level, you can reaffirm your connection with the source of your power even in times of strife. Once per turn, when you roll a 1 on a die for a skill check, saving throw, attack roll, or damage roll, you can spend your inspiration to regain the use of one of your acolyte or acolyte archetype features. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Eternal Student Starting at 5th level, you can draw strength and resolve from even hostile twists of fate. Once per turn, when you roll a 1 on a die for a skill check, saving throw, attack roll, or damage roll, you gain inspiration. You can’t use this feature and your Renewing Purpose feature on the same turn. Disciplined Approach At 7th level, when you would roll a d20, you can instead roll 2d10 and use the total result of those d10s in the d20’s place. A result of 1 on either die or both dice counts as a 1 for the purpose of your class and archetype features, such as Renewing Purpose. You cannot score critical hits when rolling this way. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you complete a short or long rest. You also regain the use of this feature when you use your Renewing Purpose feature. Expanded Mind Starting at 10th level, you become capable of seeing the path the world has set forth for you. During your turn, you can give yourself inspiration as a free action. At the GM’s discretion, you also learn something important to your quest in the form of a small sign from the cosmos, such as a breeze blowing gently in the direction you should travel or a stone on the road signifying that your destination lies in the mountains. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you complete a long rest. A Greater Purpose At 13th level, some cosmic power has greater things in store for you than an ignoble death. After you succeed at a death saving throw, you can regain hit points equal to 1d10 + your Wisdom modifier. After you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you complete a long rest. Strength in Clarity Starting at 15th level, you can tap into a well of certainty when pursuing your purpose. When you spend your inspiration, you gain temporary hit points equal to 1d10 + your Wisdom modifier. Transcendent Surge At 18th level, on your turn, you can take one additional action and bonus action. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest to use it again. You can’t use this feature more than once per turn, even if you regain it via your Renewing Purpose feature. Acolyte Archetypes The following are two types of acolyte. These are not the only beings who bind themselves to greater powers in Rokugan and the lands beyond, but they are among of the most iconic of Rokugan and its myths. Acolyte of Togashi Acolyte of Shadows

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

