# Adept

**description**: Calling upon her training and discipline to steel herself, the kesh shifts her stance and gazes ahead of her. Her vision sharpens to see the different shapes and lines made up of millions of paths of energy between herself and her target, all of which are conduits for her psychic power. She summons her inner energies, harnessing them into her fist. She smiles as she unleashes the energy upon its chosen path to vanquish her foe. Wielders of psionic power, adepts use their inner focus and sheer force of will to manipulate the energies stored within the minds of each living thing. Adepts can see and translate the pathways of the mind and body and can use those connections as conduits for psychic ability. Those with this power have also been referred to as Psions. Focused and Determined Adepts possess a supersensory view of the universe, able to see the immaterial connection between all living things. While this may occur with many who gain the ability of an esper, an adept has turned this dynamic link into an art form. With constant training, focus, meditation, and exercise, both their body and mind become in sync with each other as well as with the psychic energies of all living things around them. This psychic link is what adepts use to channel their powers. Unlike melders, who draw external energies into themselves, an adept’s power comes from within. Their bolstered essence is channeled outward to affect the physical and metaphysical essences of other objects and lifeforms. Harmony of Spirit With an adept’s rigid dedication to training and exercise comes an awakening of the senses which can only be described as a harmonius pattern. Very similar to a melder, who breaks these patterns down into codes and symbols, an adept instead sees interconnections between these energies and how each of them intersect and interact with the adept’s own form. Such a view of the universe and the feeling that comes with it is what drives an adept’s art and their pursuit of what they see as transendence from the mundane world. Even when channeling their powers, the movements and stances they perform can appear to be almost like a form of dance, as they release their inner energies along those invisible threads of power. Creating an Adept When you create your adept, consider your connection with the world around you. Are you able to see and influence the thoughts and feelings of others? Can you manipulate and move matter with your mind? Can you alter the molecular structure of other objects, or perhaps even that of your own body? How did you come upon this power and how does it relate to your life experiences? Ability Scores Charisma should be your highest ability score followed by Wisdom. Constitution and Intelligence are also useful. The Adept Level Proficiency Bonus Features Prime Talents Talents Known Maximum Talent Rank Talent Points 1st +2 Channeling, Psychic Paradigm, Esper Recovery 3 2 1 4 2nd +2 Intellect Fortress 3 3 1 6 3rd +2 Psionic Combat (2/rest) 3 4 2 14 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 4 5 2 17 5th +3 — 4 6 3 27 6th +3 Psychic Paradigm Feature 4 7 3 32 7th +3 — 4 8 4 38 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 9 4 44 9th +4 — 4 10 5 57 10th +4 Psionic Combat (3/rest) 4 10 5 60 11th +4 Esper Mastery (Rank 6) 4 11 5(6) 64 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 5 11 5(6) 68 13th +5 Esper Mastery (Rank 7) 5 12 5(7) 73 14th +5 Psychic Paradigm Feature 5 12 5(7) 78 15th +5 Esper Mastery (Rank 8) 5 13 5(8) 83 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 5 13 5(8) 88 17th +6 Esper Mastery (Rank 9) 5 14 5(9) 94 18th +6 Psychic Paradigm Feature 5 14 5(9) 100 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 5 15 5(9) 107 20th +6 Psionic Recovery 5 15 5(9) 114 Class Features As an adept, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per adept level Hit Points at 1st Level : 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per adept level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: None Weapons: Simple weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Charisma, Wisdom Skills: Choose two from Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Lore, Perception, Persuasion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a light pistol with 15 rounds of ammunition or (b) any simple melee weapon (a) a scientist’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack a portable shield device (PSD) any simple weapon Channeling Your training and level of attunement has granted you access to a number of esper talents. See chapter 10 for general rules on esper powers and chapter 11 for the adept powers list. Prime Talents At 1st level, you know psi blast and two prime talents of your choice from the adept powers list. You learn additional prime talents of your choice at higher levels, as shown in the Prime Talents column on the Adept table. Talent Points The Adept table shows you how many talent points you have. You can expend your talent points to activate a known talent of rank 1 or higher. Once your pool of talent points is depleted, you are on the brink of exhaustion. Your regain all of your points once you finish a long rest. Each talent has a rank and a point cost associated with it. If you don’t have enough talent points to cover the cost, you can’t use the talent. Talents Known of Rank 1 and Higher You know two rank 1 talents of your choice from the adept powers list. The Talents Known column of the Adept table shows when you learn more talents of your choice. A talent you choose must be no higher than what’s shown in the Max Talent Rank column for your level. When you reach 5th level, for example, you learn a new talent, which can be from any rank between 1 and 3. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose from one of the adept talents you know and replace it with another talent from the adept powers list, which must also be of a rank no higher than your Max Talent Rank. Channeling Ability Charisma is your channeling ability for your esper powers, so you use your Charisma whenever a power refers to your channeling ability. In addition, you use your Charisma modifier when setting the saving throw DC for an adept power you use and when making an attack roll with one. Channeling save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier Channeling attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier Esper Recovery Once per day when you finish a short rest, you can recover a number of talent points equal to 2 plus half of your adept level (rounded down). Psychic Paradigm At 1st level, you choose a paradigm which determines the source of your supersensory abilities: animota, battlemind, and dreamshaper. Your choice grants you features at 1st level and again at 6th, 14th, and 18th level. Intellect Fortress At 2nd level, your purity of mind and focus grants you advantage to saving throws versus being charmed or frightened. Psionic Combat At 3rd level, your gain the ability to combine your physical and mental energies into fluid and graceful movements to be utilized as offensive and defensive stances. You start with two of the following combat modes and learn one additional combat mode when you reach 13th level. Your Psychic Paradigm feature can also grant you additional combat modes at higher levels. You can use your Psionic Combat feature twice. When you use this feature, you choose which combat mode to activate. You regain all uses of your Psionic Combat feature after you finish a long rest. Some Psionic Combat effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your channeling save DC. Beginning at 10th level, you can use your Psionic Combat three times between long rests, and four times between long rests at 17th level. Psionic Combat: Improved Psi Blast When you hit with your psi blast , each creature within 10 feet of the target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d10 psychic damage. The additional damage on a failed save increases by 1d10 when you reach 5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10) and 17th level (4d10). Psionic Combat: Mind Spike As an action, you send a surge of psychic energy into another creature in attempt to overload their senses. Make a ranged channeling attack at a creature within 90 feet of you that you can see. On a hit, the creature takes 2d8 psychic damage and must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or their movement is reduced by half until the end of their next turn. The additional damage increases by 2d8 when you reach 5th level (4d8), 9th level (6d8) and 13th level (8d8). Psionic Combat: Mental Barrier This feature can be used in one of two ways. When you are hit with an attack that deals psychic damage, you can use your reaction to take no damage from the triggering attack. When you take acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, or radiant damage, you can use your reaction and gain resistance to the triggering damage type until the start of your next turn. Beginning at 11th level, when you use this combat mode, you take no damage from the triggering attack. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Esper Mastery At 11th level, your attunement to the fundamental forces around you grants you the ability to channel advanced esper talents. Choose a rank 6 talent from the adept powers list. You can activate this power once by spending the required amount of talent points. You must finish a long rest before you can do so again. At higher levels, you gain more adept talents of your choice that you can use in this way: One rank 7 at 13th level, one rank 8 at 15th level and one rank 9 at 17th level. You regain all uses of your Esper Mastery when you finish a long rest. Psionic Recovery At 20th level, you regain one use of your Psionic Combat feature when you finish a short rest, after which you must finish a long rest before you can use this feature again. Psychic Paradigms Upon their awakening, each adept chooses a path of specialization, each devoted to a specific set of disciplines. In some areas of the galaxy, groups of adepts establish training academies, both in large cities and in secluded regions away from civilization. An adept, regardless of origin, finds their own style of training and development, but all still begin with a set of established basics. The following paradigms are common amongst adepts encountered throughout the Silrayne Arc. Each paradigm has a list of talents associated with it which is added to the adept powers list. Animota Battlemind Dreamshaper

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

