# Alchemist

**description**: A grinning gnome cackles with glee as he hurls a bomb into a group of charging goblins, blasting them into scorched chunks. He produces another, throws it at his feet, and disappears, still laughing, into the ensuing cloud of smoke. A slender elf quickly mixes liquids and herbs in a small bowl. She applies the mixture to an arrow wound on an injured dwarf’s side, which immediately stops bleeding. Whether their methods are explosive, transformative, or restorative, alchemists live to transmute the world around them to their liking. Chemical Reactions One of the first things an alchemist learns is how to mix chemicals that react explosively with each other. Ostensibly, this is taught to students to prevent deadly accidents, but adventuring alchemists regularly apply this knowledge to create bombs. An alchemical bomb is a 1-pound, apple-sized, spherical glass or clay flask filled with a reactive chemical. A smaller vial of thin glass containing a reagent is suspended in the liquid, and the whole thing is sealed with a cork or wax seal. The chemicals violently explode when mixed. This occurs when the inner vial breaks, usually after the bomb impacts a solid surface or a fuse sets off a small explosive detonator within the vial. Bombs are primarily used to fend off enemies, but creative alchemists may find more practical uses for explosives, such as demolishing obstacles. Serums and Tinctures More experienced alchemists learn to mix less volatile substances into potions, alchemical concoctions that replicate magical effects. These potions range from the medicinal, such as potions of healing , to the transformative, such as potions of gaseous form , to the downright deadly, such as potions of poison . Undisputed masters of potions, alchemists constantly innovate with new formulations and preparations, improving their potions into magic items in their own right. Elemental Sciences The primary source of alchemy’s power comes from the elemental planes. It is no surprise, then, that alchemists strive to tap deeper into that power, researching and discovering new compounds composed of the elements. The pinnacle of alchemy is the philosopher’s stone, which is rumored to grant its bearer supreme elemental power. Few alchemists have succeeded in creating a philosopher’s stone, and fewer still remain alive to divulge its secrets. Creating an Alchemist When you create an alchemist, consider why you study alchemy. Are you attracted to its dangerous power or its ability to help others? Do you desire to use magic, but lack the aptitude or inborn ability? Why do you adventure? Are you searching for new alchemical formulae or rare ingredients? Do you, like so many, seek the philosopher’s stone? Be sure to understand alchemy’s place in your campaign world. You might have learned your trade from a master or studied alongside artificers and wizards in a university. Your trade might be commonplace or an oddity. Depending on the setting, you might be respected for your knowledge or feared for your destructive potential. Quick Build You can make an alchemist quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Intelligence your highest ability score, followed by Dexterity. Choose any background of your choice, preferably one that lends insight into your history with alchemy. The Alchemist Level Proficiency Bonus Formulae Known Reagent Dice Discoveries Known Features 1st +2 — — — Bombs, Natural Philosopher 2nd +2 3 — — Bomb Formulae, Field of Study 3rd +2 3 3d10 — Reagent 4th +2 3 4d10 2 Ability Score Improvement, Discoveries 5th +3 4 5d10 2 Flashbang 6th +3 4 6d10 3 Field of Study feature 7th +3 5 7d10 3 Potions improvement 8th +3 5 8d10 3 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 6 9d10 4 — 10th +4 6 10d10 4 Field of Study feature 11th +4 7 11d10 4 Evasion 12th +4 7 12d10 4 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 8 13d10 5 — 14th +5 8 14d10 5 Potions improvement 15th +5 9 15d10 5 Blast Coating 16th +5 9 16d10 5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 10 17d10 6 — 18th +6 10 18d10 6 Field of Study feature 19th +6 11 19d10 6 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 11 20d10 6 Philosopher’s Stone Class Features As an alchemist, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d6 per alchemist level Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Constitution modifier per alchemist level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Simple weapons, bombs Tools: Alchemist’s supplies, herbalism kit Saving Throws: Dexterity, Intelligence Skills: Choose three from Arcana, History, Insight, Medicine, Nature, Perception, Sleight of Hand, and Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) any simple weapon (a) an explorer’s pack or (b) a scholar’s pack Alchemist’s supplies and (a) a vial of acid, (b) a flask of alchemist’s fire, or (c) a vial of basic poison Leather armor and a dagger Natural Philosopher You have learned much about alchemy during your studies. Starting at 1st level, you can add half your proficiency bonus, rounded up, to any ability check you make to identify herbs, potions, poisons, or other alchemical substances. If the ability check already includes your proficiency bonus, you can add this bonus in addition to your normal proficiency bonus. Bombs At 1st level, you can create volatile alchemical bombs using your alchemist’s supplies. Whenever you finish a short or long rest, you can create a number of bombs equal to 10 + twice your alchemist level. For you the cost of materials necessary to create these bombs is negligible. After 24 hours, an unused bomb becomes inert. The statistics of a bomb are shown in the Bomb sidebar above. Priming Bombs. Once per turn you can take the Use an Object action to prime a bomb with explosive reagents and make an attack with it, increasing the bomb’s explosive potential. When you do so, you can add your Intelligence modifier, instead of Dexterity, to the bomb’s damage roll. Additionally, when you throw a bomb in this way, its damage increases by 1d10 when you reach 5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10), and 17th level (4d10). Saving Throws. When you throw a bomb, the save DC for its blast radius is calculated as follows: Bomb save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Bomb Bombs are exotic ranged weapons with the following statistics: Name Cost Damage Weight Properties Bomb 2 sp 1d10 fire 1 lb. Finesse, special, thrown (range 30/90) Special Property Bomb. When a bomb hits a target, it explodes in a 15-foot diameter sphere and is destroyed. The bomb can be thrown at an unoccupied space within its range. Each creature other than the target within the blast radius (for a Medium or smaller target, each creature within 5 feet of it) must make a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw, taking half the damage rolled on a failed save, or no damage on a successful one. Additionally, as a bonus action, you can empty some of the bomb’s explosive material to permanently remove the blast radius from this bomb, dealing damage only to the bomb’s target. Bomb Formulae By 2nd level, your research has granted you insight into new alchemical formulations for your bombs. Select three bomb formulae from the Bomb Formulae section. Once per turn when you prime a bomb, you can apply a formula to it. Applying a formula sometimes changes all of the damage dice rolled for a bomb, but also grants it special effects. When you gain certain levels in this class, you learn additional formulae of your choice, as shown in the Bomb Formulae Known column of the Alchemist table. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the formulae you know and replace it with another formula. Field of Study While all alchemists share a common knowledge base, most alchemists specialize into a particular field of study. When you reach 2nd level, you select your field of study, which grants you features at 2nd, 6th, 10th, and 18th level. A formula granted by your field of study doesn’t count against the total number of formulae you know. Reagent Starting at 3rd level, you have a collection of powerful alchemical reagents, represented by a pool of reagent dice, that you can spend to brew potions or magnify the power of your explosives. Reagent Dice You start with three reagent dice, which are d10s, and you gain additional reagent dice as you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Reagent Dice column of the Alchemist table. You regain all expended reagent dice when you finish a long rest. When you prime a bomb, you can expend a number of reagent dice up to your proficiency bonus and add the dice to the bomb’s damage roll. Brewing Potions You can spend 10 minutes and expend any number of reagent dice to brew potions. These potions retain potency for 24 hours, after which they become inert. If a potion calls for a saving throw, it uses your bomb save DC. The number of reagent dice and the alchemist level required to brew a potion are given on the Potions table. Potions Potion Cost Level Potion of Climbing 1 reagent die 3rd Potion of Growth 1 reagent die 3rd Potion of Healing 1 reagent die 3rd Potion of Water Breathing 1 reagent die 3rd Universal Solvent 1 reagent die 3rd Cure-All 2 reagent dice 7th Potion of Greater Healing 2 reagent dice 7th Potion of Heroism 2 reagent dice 7th Potion of Resistance 2 reagent dice 7th Sovereign Glue (1 ounce) 2 reagent dice 7th Potion of Diminution 3 reagent dice 14th Potion of Flying 4 reagent dice 14th Potion of Hill Giant Strength 4 reagent dice 14th Potion of Invisibility 4 reagent dice 14th Potion of Superior Healing 4 reagent dice 14th Reagent Synthesis When you finish a short rest, you can choose to regain all of your expended reagent dice that weren’t used to brew potions. Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Discoveries In the course of your research, you have made a number of discoveries regarding the nature of alchemy. At 4th level, you gain two discoveries of your choice. When you gain certain alchemist levels, you gain additional discoveries of your choice, as shown in the Discoveries Known column of the Alchemist table. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the discoveries you know and replace it with another discovery that you could learn at that level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, as an alchemist, when you gain an ability score improvement, you can instead choose to learn a new discovery for which you meet the prerequisites. Flashbang Beginning at 5th level, you carry a supply of concussive explosives to help you escape from perilous situations. As a bonus action, you can throw one of these explosives at your feet, disorienting and distracting nearby foes. Each Large or smaller creature within 5 feet of you can’t take reactions until the start of its next turn. Evasion Beginning at 11th level, when you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. Blast Coating Starting at 15th level, you automatically succeed on saving throws against your own bombs and never take damage from them. Philosopher’s Stone At 20th level, you unlock the crowning achievement of all alchemy: a philosopher’s stone, a dynamo of alchemical energy in a fist-sized, glowing jewel. You can construct your philosopher’s stone using your alchemist’s supplies, 1,000 gp worth of materials, and 7 days of work. You can only have one philosopher’s stone at a time. As long as you possess the stone, you gain the following benefits: Whenever you finish a short rest, you regain all expended reagent dice. You can brew potions as an action, instead of over the course of 10 minutes. You age 10 times slower than normal, and you can’t be aged magically. Additionally, you learn the following formula, which doesn’t count against the total number of formulae you know: Formula: Nuclear Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with your philosopher’s stone, you can change it into a nuclear bomb. A nuclear bomb deals 10d10 + 100 force damage instead of its normal fire damage, has a blast radius of 1 mile, and completely destroys the philosopher’s stone. Additionally, each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw takes the full bomb damage rolled, or half as much damage on a successful save. Creatures within 60 feet of the bomb gain no benefit from Evasion or similar features. Bomb Formulae Bomb formulae are summarized on the following table. Bombs that are exclusively available to one field of study are marked with an asterisk. Unless otherwise stated, all bombs produce a loud boom, audible out to one mile. Bombs are presented in alphabetical order. Bomb Formulae Formula Damage Saving Throw Acid Bomb d4 acid Dexterity Arcano Bomb* d12 force Dexterity Black Powder Bomb* d12 fire Dexterity Bramble Bomb — — Cryo Bomb d8 cold Constitution Holy Bomb d8 radiant Dexterity Impact Bomb d8 force Dexterity Incendiary Bomb d6 fire Dexterity Laughing Gas Bomb d6 poison Constitution Lightning Bomb d8 lightning Dexterity Nonlethal Bomb d8 bludg. Dexterity Oil Bomb d6 fire — Painkiller Bomb* — — Pheromone Bomb* — Wisdom Prismatic Bomb Varies Varies Psionic Bomb d6 psychic Wisdom Quiet Bomb d8 fire Dexterity Seeking Bomb d6 fire Dexterity Shrapnel Bomb* d8 piercing Dexterity Slime Bomb* — — Smoke Bomb — — Sonic Bomb d6 thunder Constitution Stink Bomb d8 poison Constitution Teleportation Bomb — — Thermobaric Bomb d6 fire Dexterity Venom Bomb* d8 poison Constitution Withering Bomb d8 necrotic Constitution Missed Bombs As bombs are explosive projectiles, it makes sense to ask what happens if a thrown bomb fails to hit its target. For simplicity, we assume that missed bombs explode harmlessly in the background or fail to detonate altogether, but do not explode in the target’s space or deal damage within their blast radius. The GM can decide which of these two outcomes happens or can determine the outcome randomly. Acid Bomb By mixing your bomb’s explosive contents with a few drops of ardenflotic acid, a highly corrosive chemical, you can change it into an acid bomb. An acid bomb deals acid damage instead of fire damage, and its damage dice are d4s. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, takes the same amount of damage again at the end of its next turn. Bramble Bomb By adding a potent fertilizer to your bomb’s explosive contents, you can change it into a bramble bomb. A bramble bomb deals no damage, but instead causes tough, thorny brambles to sprout from any area of natural ground within the bomb’s blast radius, which becomes difficult terrain. Additionally, if a creature in the blast radius is prone when the bomb detonates, it is enveloped by the brambles and must succeed on a Strength (Athletics) check against your bomb save DC before it can move or stand. The brambles shrivel and die after 1 minute. Cryo Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with a piece of ice-nine, you can change it into a cryo bomb. A cryo bomb deals cold damage instead of fire damage, its damage dice are d8s, and it requires a Constitution saving throw, instead of a Dexterity saving throw. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, has its speed reduced by 10 feet until the end of its next turn. Holy Bomb By adding a few drops of holy water to your bomb’s explosive contents, you can change it into a holy bomb. A holy bomb deals radiant damage instead of fire damage, and its damage dice are d8s, unless the target is a Celestial, Fiend, or Undead. The bomb’s damage dice are d6s against Celestials and d12s against Fiends and Undead. Impact Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with more reactive ones, you can change it into an impact bomb. An impact bomb deals force damage instead of fire damage, and its damage dice are d8s. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, is pushed 5 feet away from the center of the blast. A bomb for every occasion! Incendiary Bomb By adding a thickening agent to your bomb’s explosive contents, you can change it into an incendiary bomb. An incendiary bomb’s damage dice are d6s. Additionally, the area of the blast radius is engulfed in flames, which persist until the start of your next turn. Flammable objects in this area that aren’t being worn or carried ignite. Any creature that ends its turn in this area takes half the bomb’s damage. Laughing Gas Bomb By mixing your bomb’s explosive contents with a drop of jesterate, a highly euphoric chemical, you can change it into a laughing gas bomb. A laughing gas bomb deals poison damage instead of fire damage, its damage dice are d6s, and it requires a Constitution saving throw, instead of a Dexterity saving throw. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, falls prone in a fit of laughter. Once a creature falls prone due to this bomb’s effects, it is immune to this effect (but not the bomb’s poison damage) for the next 24 hours. Lightning Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with a charged arcane capacitor, you can change it into a lightning bomb. A lightning bomb deals lightning damage instead of fire damage, and its damage dice are d8s. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, can’t take reactions until the end of its next turn. Nonlethal Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with a pouch of rubber pellets, you can change it into a nonlethal bomb. A nonlethal bomb deals bludgeoning damage instead of fire damage, and its damage dice are d8s. If damage from this bomb drops a creature to 0 hit points, it knocks the creature out, rather than dealing a killing blow, rendering the creature unconscious and stable. Additionally, this bomb’s rubber pellets bounce around corners, ignoring half and three-quarters cover for targets within the blast radius. Oil Bomb By mixing your bomb’s explosive contents with a few drops of a super-surfactant, you can change it into an oil bomb. An oil bomb deals no damage, but coats each creature within the blast radius in a sticky, flammable oil. The next time a creature coated in oil takes fire damage, it takes an extra d6 fire damage for each die of fire damage rolled, up to a maximum of half your alchemist level, rounded up. This oil can be removed by dousing a creature with a gallon of water. Prismatic Bomb By adding an ounce of polyjuice, an unpredictable, multicolored chemical, to your bomb’s explosive contents, you can change it into a prismatic bomb. A prismatic bomb deals damage of a randomly determined type instead of fire damage, and it requires a randomly determined type of saving throw. Its damage dice are d8s. Roll on each of the following tables. d6 Damage Type d6 Saving Throw 1 Acid 1–2 Dexterity 2 Cold 3–4 Constitution 3 Fire 5–6 Wisdom 4 Lightning 5 Poison 6 Radiant Psionic Bomb By mixing your bomb’s explosive contents with dust from a psionic crystal, you can change it into a psionic bomb. A psionic bomb deals psychic damage instead of fire damage, its damage dice are d6s, and it requires a Wisdom saving throw, instead of a Dexterity saving throw. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, has disadvantage on Constitution saving throws it makes to maintain concentration on spells until the end of its next turn, including against this bomb’s damage. Quiet Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with a wad of thermal cotton, you can change it into a quiet bomb. A quiet bomb’s damage dice are d8s. When this bomb detonates, it makes only a low thud, audible out to 10 feet, and releases a puff of smoke to mask the light given off by its blast. Creatures have disadvantage on ability checks to detect that this bomb was detonated nearby. Seeking Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with a powerful lodestone, you can change it into a seeking bomb. A seeking bomb’s damage dice are d6s. You don’t have disadvantage on ranged attack rolls you make using this bomb as a result of being within 5 feet of a hostile creature. Smoke Bomb By removing your bomb’s explosive contents entirely, you can change it into a smoke bomb. A smoke bomb deals no damage but fills a 10-foot-radius sphere with smoke. This smoke spreads around corners and its area is heavily obscured. It lasts for a number of rounds equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 1 round) or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it. Once you throw one of these bombs, you can’t throw another one for 1 minute. Sonic Bomb By mixing your bomb’s explosive contents with a few drops of air elemental essence, you can change it into a sonic bomb. A sonic bomb deals thunder damage instead of fire damage, its damage dice are d6s, and it requires a Constitution saving throw, instead of a Dexterity saving throw. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, is deafened until the end of its next turn. Stink Bomb By adding a single drop of skunkanide, a chemical too unholy to expound upon, you can change it into a stink bomb. A stink bomb deals poison damage instead of fire damage, its damage dice are d8, and it requires a Constitution saving throw, instead of a Dexterity saving throw. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, has disadvantage on ability checks it makes until the end of its next turn. Teleportation Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with a glowing etherite crystal, you can change it into a teleportation bomb. A teleportation bomb deals no damage and instead opens a rift in space, instantly teleporting you to its point of detonation. This effect fails if the bomb explodes more than 30 feet away from you. Thermobaric Bomb By replacing your bomb’s explosive contents with a lower speed explosive, you can change it into a thermobaric bomb. A thermobaric bomb’s damage dice are d6s, and it explodes in a 10-foot radius. Withering Bomb By mixing your bomb’s explosive components with a powerful desiccating agent, you can change it into a withering bomb. A withering bomb deals necrotic damage instead of fire damage, its damage dice are d8s, it requires a Constitution saving throw, instead of a Dexterity saving throw. Additionally, the target, as well as each creature within the blast radius that fails its saving throw, can’t regain hit points until the end of its next turn. Discoveries If a discovery has prerequisites, you must meet them to learn it. You can learn the discovery at the same time that you meet its prerequisites. A level prerequisite refers to your level in this class. You can only learn a discovery once, unless otherwise specified. Advanced Poisoner Prerequisites: 13th level, Venomsmith Field of Study Your morbid research into the most vicious, exotic poisons allows you to brew the following poisons (found in the SRD) when you brew potions: Potion Cost Burnt Othur Fumes 3 reagent dice Crawler Mucus 3 reagent dice Drow Poison 3 reagent dice Pale Tincture 4 reagent dice Midnight Tears 5 reagent dice Wyvern Poison 6 reagent dice Alchemy of Ascendancy Prerequisite: 17th level A breakthrough in your alchemical studies has revealed the formulation of several potent elixirs. You can brew the following potions: Potion Cost Necromantic Draught 4 reagent dice Oil of Etherealness 4 reagent dice Potion of Speed 4 reagent dice Potion of Stone Giant Strength 4 reagent dice Alchemy of Influence Prerequisite: 13th level Your alchemical research has revealed many of the basic chemicals that govern emotions. You can brew the following potions: Potion Cost Potion of Animal Friendship 1 reagent die Philter of Love 2 reagent dice Potion of Clairvoyance 3 reagent dice Potion of Mind Reading 3 reagent dice Alchemy of Transformation Prerequisite: 13th level You have mastered the alchemical secrets of shifting matter, which allow you to brew the following potions: Potion Cost Oil of Slipperiness 2 reagent dice Sandstone Solution 2 reagent dice Aqua Fortis 3 reagent dice Chameleon Concoction 3 reagent dice Potion of Gaseous Form 3 reagent dice Arcane Study You learn three cantrips of your choice from the wizard spell list. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your wizard spells. Ballistics Research You learn two additional bomb formulae. Battle Training You gain proficiency with martial weapons and shields. Beguiling Haze Prerequisites: 13th level, Amorist Field of Study When you charm a creature, you can choose to place it in a dreamy state, from which it regards everyone it sees as close friends. While the creature is charmed, it is nonhostile and acts as though it is charmed equally by each creature it sees. Once you use this ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Buffered Metabolism Prerequisites: 13th level, Xenoalchemist Field of Study As a reaction when you take damage, you can expend any number of reagent dice up to your proficiency bonus to reduce the amount of damage taken by the total rolled on the dice. Clotting Agent You have developed a serum that thickens your blood. Your hit point maximum increases by your alchemist level + your Constitution modifier, and it increases by 1 again whenever you gain a level in this class. Craft Homunculus Using a special alchemical process requiring 8 hours of work, which can be performed over the course of a long rest, you can create a homunculus. A homunculus functions as a familiar summoned by the find familiar spell, with several differences: The telepathic link between you and your homunculus functions at any distance, provided you and your homunculus are on the same plane of existence. You can’t dismiss your homunculus as you would a familiar. Your homunculus is a Construct and can’t assume a different form. Your homunculus can take the Attack action on its turn. When your homunculus dies, its body remains, and can be reanimated in a procedure requiring 1 hour of work, which can be performed over the course of a short or long rest. Demolition Spree Prerequisites: 13th level, Mad Bomber Field of Study When you prime and throw a bomb, you can choose to throw a number of bombs equal to the number of damage dice for the bomb instead of only one. Each bomb you throw deals 1d10 damage plus your Intelligence modifier and can’t target the same creature or space. You must spend reagent dice separately on these bombs and can apply a bomb formula to only one of them. Explosive Missile As a bonus action, you can load one of your bombs onto the head of a crossbow bolt. Instead of its normal damage, this bolt deals damage as if the bomb had been primed and thrown, but it doesn’t have a blast radius. Only one of your bombs can be loaded onto a bolt at a time, and you can’t fire an explosive bolt on the same turn you throw a bomb. Fire Brand As a bonus action you can mix your bomb’s contents together and apply the fiery concoction to a melee weapon you are holding. Until the end of your turn, this melee weapon deals an extra 1d6 fire damage on a hit. This extra damage increases by 1d6 at 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6). Fire Eater Instead of priming and throwing a bomb, you use an action to drink its contents and spit them out in a 15-foot cone. Each creature within the cone must make a Dexterity saving throw against your bomb save DC. On a failed save, a creature takes fire damage as if the bomb had been primed and thrown, or half as much on a successful save. When you use this ability, you take 1d4 points of fire damage for each of your bomb’s damage dice. Fire in the Hole Prerequisite: 9th level You have tweaked your bomb’s formula to increase its explosive yield. Your bomb save DC increases by half your proficiency bonus, rounded down. Fortified Serum Prerequisites: 13th level, Apothecary Field of Study Whenever a creature regains hit points by drinking one of your potions, it gains resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks until the end of its next turn. Grenadier When you prime and throw a bomb, you can use your bonus action to make an attack with a weapon that isn’t two-handed. Dynamo Charger Prerequisites: 13th level, Dynamo Engineer Field of Study You’ve invented a device that rapidly recharges your spell dynamos. Once per day when you finish a short rest, you can regain 2 expended spell slots stored in dynamos. You can configure these dynamos immediately. Hemoreagent Prerequisite: 17th level When you prime and throw a bomb, you can convert a measure of your own blood into reagents. You can add five or fewer reagent dice to the bomb’s damage roll without expending them, and you lose 1d6 hit points for each reagent die added. This loss of hit points can’t be reduced or prevented in any way. Lazarus Bolt Prerequisite: 9th level You’ve discovered a radical necromantic workaround: restoring life with direct electricity to the heart. As an action, you can drive a bolt into the torso of a creature within 5 feet of you that has died within the last minute and shock it back to life. That creature returns to life with 1 hit point. This feature can’t return to life a creature that lacks a heart, a creature that has died of old age, or a creature that is missing vital organs. Once you use this ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Magnified Blast Prerequisite: 17th level Thanks to a new internal design for your bombs, you have expanded their blast radius and magnitude. Whenever you add reagent dice to your bomb’s damage, you can also choose to expand the bomb’s blast radius by a distance of up to 5 feet per two reagent dice spent. Ooze Cowboy Prerequisites: 13th level, Ooze Rancher Field of Study Tired of waiting for your Oozes to catch up with you, you’ve modified your formula to make extra fast slimes! All slimes you make have a speed of 30 feet, unless it was already higher. Additionally, you can ride any Ooze you make of Medium size or larger as a mount. You and your equipment suffer no ill effect from touching your Oozes directly. Lastly, your Oozes add your proficiency bonus to their damage rolls and initiative rolls. Poisoner Your research into poisonous compounds has taught you how to concoct lethal toxins. You gain proficiency with the poisoner’s kit. Additionally, you can craft the following poisons when you brew potions, which use your bomb save DC instead of their normal save DCs: Potion Cost 2 x Antitoxin 1 reagent die 2 x Basic Poison 1 reagent die Oil of Taggit 2 reagent dice Potion of Poison 2 reagent dice Serpent Venom 2 reagent dice Truth Serum 2 reagent dice Precision Explosives You have modified your bombs to have narrow gaps in their explosions, perfect for keeping some creatures safe from the blast. You can choose one creature in the blast radius of a bomb, other than the target, to automatically succeed on its saving throw against the bomb and take no damage from it. Reactionary Gulp Prerequisite: 17th level By keeping your potions organized on a bandolier or in a series of pouches, you can quickly draw them at a moment’s notice. Immediately after you take damage, you can use your reaction to drink a potion. Recycled Potions When you brew potions, you can distill potions you have already brewed, destroying them and regaining the reagent dice expended to brew them. You can choose to expend these reagent dice to create new potions. You can’t gain more than your maximum number of reagent dice using this ability. Syringe Using a sophisticated hypodermic needle, you can more quickly administer potions and poisons. As a bonus action, you can inject a potion into yourself or a willing creature within 5 feet of you, granting the benefits of the potion as if it were consumed normally. You can inject a potion into an unwilling creature with a successful melee attack, treating the syringe as a finesse weapon. Tri-Mutation Prerequisites: 13th level, Mutagenist Field of Study You’ve developed a powerful, but fleeting way to blend your mutagens. When you inject yourself with a mutagen, you can choose to inject a tri-mutagen, which grants you the benefit of all your mutagens at once. This benefit lasts for 1 minute, or until you inject yourself with a different mutagen. Once you use this ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest. Fields of Study All alchemists learn the basics of their science: the elements, chemical reactions, and alchemical formulae. Beyond that, alchemists pick up a specialty that they practice and research in depth. Some focus on the healing arts and some focus on destruction, while others focus on research or potion-brewing. Fields of study are as varied as the alchemists who research them and have applications equally as diverse. Fields of Study Name Description Amorist Brewers of love potions and practitioners of mind-affecting alchemy Apothecary Alchemical healers and herbalists Dynamo Engineer Casts spells by preparing them in devices known as spell dynamos Mad Bomber Pyromaniacs who fashion particularly devastating bombs Mutagenist Transmutes their body with experimental, injected mutagens Ooze Rancher Breeds and commands all manner of oozes and slimes Venomsmith Poison expert and assassin Xenoalchemist Modifies their body and the bodies of others with monster surgery Never underestimate the power of blowing things up!

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 26275

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Valda's Spire of Secrets

