# Apothecary

**description**: Apothecary A bespectacled man stands at an operating table, studying the dissected monstrosity resting upon the slab. The crackle of electric conductors harmonize with his arcane mumblings as he takes up his scalpels and saws. As he finishes the final stitch, the creature's hand twitches and jolts to life once more. Cloaked in an acid-stained heavy coat, a tall half-elf brews tinctures and tonics. Her face is concealed behind thick black goggles and a heavy breathing mask as she performs an unusual combination of herbalism, alchemy, medicine, and magic. Her mixtures bubble and boil as she muses whether the cure will be worse than the disease. A lithe tiefling soothes a suffering patient as they draw a sample of contaminated blood. Lifting the vial to examine the liquid within, they pull upon eldritch energy to distill the sample into a pure contagion. Scribbling their findings down in a withered notebook, they add the vial to their collection of pathogens and scourges to use against their foes. Medical Experts An apothecary is a practiced medical expert and arcane magic user. They wield their knowledge to both heal and harm, augmenting their conventional skills with alchemy and occult magic. Some apothecaries might first attempt treatment with traditional means like medicinal herbs and surgical techniques. When these mundane methods are not enough, they use arcane magic and eldritch forces to restore their patients. An apothecary's unique skills prove useful whether their patients suffer from natural or supernatural ailments, but apothecaries possess knowledge of the body which can be used for more than just healing. Their arcane methods can strengthen, transform, or protect their allies, and some apothecaries know deadly techniques which can harm and kill their enemies. An apothecary understands how the difference between a poison and a cure lies often only in the dose. Their careful study of life and death gives an apothecary the tools to both help allies survive horrible ailments, injuries, and pluck them from the clutches of death, or use their enemies as test subjects for their dangerous compounds, terrible diseases and poisonous magic. Knowledge Seekers Most apothecaries set out with the goal of furthering their studies and expanding their magical horizons, uncovering new ways to wield magic for dangerous or life-saving effects, and learning forbidden knowledge kept from the rest of the world. They believe that knowledge is power, and see themselves as seekers of knowledge. Some kinder apothecaries see their duty as protectors of the innocent, dedicating their lives to helping sick and injured people. Others see every opportunity to exploit the weak and push their search for true power forward. Many fall somewhere in between, riding the lines of mad scientist and renowned doctor. Occult Practitioners Apothecaries seek out occult lore and use it to study and practice scientific theories. Many of their magical incantations, whether it be for the purposes of saving lives, or ending them, are deemed experimental. Many apothecaries keep a notebook close at hand and write down esoteric theories based on their findings and field work. Apothecaries are gaining renown within some remote communities on the continent as doctors and healers to whom one can turn to instead of religious figures. However, they are more often viewed as dangerous scientists and mysterious witches who use magic to create toxins and poisons that could eradicate entire armies. Creating an Apothecary When you set out to create an apothecary, the most important question is to decide your path of study. What is it that drives you to seek knowledge? Are you working in the service of good? Is your life dedicated to helping those in need? By studying poisons, diseases, occult lore, and forbidden knowledge, do you hope to help the sick and wounded? Perhaps you aim to save someone you care about, or protect your kingdom or homeland from the evils of this world. Or maybe your studies are more dangerous in nature. Do you set out on adventure to test your dangerous chemical formulae? Do you see each monster or enemy as a test subject for your concoctions and spells? All apothecaries share a search for knowledge, and dabble in forbidden lore and occult practices. Although many in their practice are happy to sell their services or potions in cities or to well-paying nobles and kings, some are called to adventure, setting out on the endless hunt for knowledge. Others work as investigators and researchers. Many apothecaries see adventure as a means to perform direct field research, perfect their skills, and test the true potential of their theories. Quick Build You can make an apothecary quickly by following these suggestions. First, Intelligence should be your highest ability score, followed by Constitution. Second, choose your character ancestry and background. Third, choose the Poison Needle * and Spare the Dying cantrips, along with the 1st-level spells Envenom * and Healing Word . Apothecaries in Drakkenheim Apothecaries can be found throughout the continent in many forms. The term is broadly used to describe many magic-adjacent professions found on the continent and the vast array of possible fields of study is ever expanding. The Amethyst Academy has departments of apothecaries managing their labs and research centers. Within their many schools and strongholds, they teach advanced sciences and using magic to better understand the body and mind, and the various modern medical practices that can be combined with magic to save lives — or end them. Not all apothecaries are mageborn. The broad term has been used to describe several practices that combine herbal ingredients, chemicals, and poisons with biological study to induce outcomes similar to the effects of evocation or necromantic magic. Pathogenists working in distant labs perform studies to create new powerful strains of disease and poison. Chemists find ways to surpass the potency of mageborn spellcasting with the right dose of chemicals for their explosive and destructive results. Other Mutagenists working with the mutating effects of delerium seek to control and isolate the elements of mutation and apply them in a more controlled manner. There are even reports of apothecaries who are studying techniques to unlock the potential of the mind. These Alienists have caused a stir amongst nobles, mages, and clergy for their ability to tap into mental capabilities that mirror magic, without requiring a mageborn's lineage. Secretive reanimators pursue grisly studies into the realms of death and undeath, mimicking necromantic magic using little more than new science and invention. There are apothecaries working under the Sacred Flame as exorcists, channeling their occult knowledge and research into helping rid holy sites of undead, dispatch unwanted spirits, and remove terrible curses. Apothecaries are found on every continent; whether mageborn or not, many are skilled academics who have a keen mind for pushing the boundaries of science. These researchers have found themselves on the path of the apothecary, lending their aid to cities and towns throughout the continent, and occasionally bringing unique chemical warfare to the battlefield of great wars. Personality Traits 1 I often use big scientific words; I just can't help but to embellish my superior intellect. 2 I have a dark sense of humor. Often my jokes fall flat on those who do not share in my macabre ideals. 3 I mutter to myself constantly. Years in the lab have meant that I am accustomed to speaking mostly to myself. Ideals 1 Science. To push the boundaries of mortal capabilities is a reason to live, and a worthy legacy to leave behind. 2 Education. If I can share the great secrets I learn with others, the world will be better for it. 3 Power. Mageborn think they hold all the cards, but the power we can unlock through occult practice and advanced study will surpass any silly fireball-throwing mage. Bonds 1 I was laughed at for my passion for study. I want to prove to the world how great science can be. 2 There are secrets of this world capable of unlocking vast mortal potential — I will discover them. 3 My mentor was a great genius. I want to finish the work they started. Flaws 1 Sometimes you have to make sacrifices to prove a hypothesis. Sometimes those sacrifices are people's lives. A worthy cost for science, no? 2 I obsess over my theories and discovering occult lore; occasionally it is all consuming. 3 I scoff at mages and their petty parlor tricks. They cannot fathom the power we can wield if we simply seek it. Personal Quest 1 I must collect blood samples of the five chromatic dragons in order to perfect the ultimate concoction. 2 I will be the first non-mageborn to prove the potential of scientific study and join the Amethyst Academy elite. 3 The falling star that struck Drakkenheim is sure to have unfathomable potential for my study. I must collect a shard from the source in the heart of the crater. Apothecary Level Proficiency Bonus Features Cantrips Known Spell Slots Slot Level Theories Known 1 +2 Apothecary Magic , Occult Practice 3 1 1st – 2 +2 Esoteric Theories 3 2 1st 2 3 +2 Occult Practice Feature 3 2 2nd 2 4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 4 2 2nd 3 5 +3 — 4 3 3rd 3 6 +3 Occult Practice Feature 4 3 3rd 4 7 +3 — 4 3 4th 4 8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 3 4th 5 9 +4 — 4 4 5th 5 10 +4 Occult Practice Feature 5 4 5th 6 11 +4 Greater Formula (6th) 5 4 5th 6 12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 5 4 5th 7 13 +5 Greater Formula (7th) 5 5 5th 7 14 +5 Occult Practice Feature 5 5 5th 8 15 +5 Greater Formula (8th) 5 5 5th 8 16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 5 5 5th 9 17 +6 Greater Formula (9th) 5 6 5th 9 18 +6 Occult Practice Feature 5 6 5th 10 19 +6 Ability Score Improvement ; Additional Greater Formula (6th) 5 6 5th 10 20 +6 Miraculous Recovery , Additional Greater Formula (7th) 5 6 5th 11 Class Features As an apothecary, you gain the following class features: Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per apothecary level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per apothecary level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: light armor, medium armor Weapons: simple weapons, short swords, hand crossbows Tools: any tool proficiency, plus another of your choice from the following: Poisoner's Kit , Herbalism Kit , or Alchemist's Supplies . Saving Throws: Intelligence, Wisdom Skills: Choose two skills from Arcana, History, Investigation, Medicine, Nature, and Religion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: a Light Crossbow and 20 bolts, a Shortsword , or any simple weapon a Component Pouch or an arcane focus a Scholar's Pack or a Dungeoneer's Pack Hide Armor , any simple weapon, and two Daggers A Healer's Kit Apothecary Magic Your arcane research has given you facility with spells. Refer to the Core Rules for the general rules of spellcasting and the Spells Listing in this book for the apothecary spell list. Formula Book You have a book or collection of notes that you study to prepare your apothecary spells, develop your Esoteric Theories , and record your occult practices. You may use your formula book as an arcane focus for your apothecary spells. You may describe this book any way you like. Some examples of your book's appearance include: A large leatherbound tome with yellowing pages bound shut with an iron lock A scattered assortment of scribbled notes loosely held together by rope A pristine journal with perfect edges and beautiful penmanship A leather briefcase with two small golden locks A medical bag with surgical symbols on the sides A beat-up satchel slung over one shoulder with vials and bottles poking out of every pocket If the book is destroyed or lost, you can recreate it using inks and paper during a long rest. Cantrips You know three cantrips of your choice from the apothecary spell list. You learn additional apothecary cantrips of your choice at higher levels, as shown in the Cantrips Known column of the Apothecary table. Elementary Reformulation. Whenever you finish a long rest and consult your formula book, you can replace one apothecary cantrip you know with another cantrip from the apothecary spell list. Preparing and Casting Spells The Apothecary table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your apothecary spells of 1st through 5th level. The table also shows what the level of those slots is; all of your spell slots are the same level. To cast one of your apothecary spells of 1st level or higher, you must expend a spell slot. You regain all expended spell slots when you finish a short or long rest. You prepare the list of apothecary spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the apothecary spell list. When you do so, choose a number of apothecary spells equal to your Intelligence modifier + your apothecary level (minimum of one spell). A spell you prepare must be of a level no higher than what's shown in the Apothecary table's Slot Level column for your level. For example, if you are a 5th-level apothecary, you have three 3rd-level spell slots. With an Intelligence of 16, your list of prepared spells can include eight spells of 1st, 2nd, or 3rd level, in any combination. To cast the 1st-level spell cure wounds , you must spend one of those slots, and you cast it as a 3rd-level spell. Casting a spell doesn't remove it from your list of prepared spells. You can change your list of prepared spells when you finish a long rest. Preparing a new list of apothecary spells requires at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list. Spellcasting Ability Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your apothecary spells, since you learn your spells through dedicated study and occult knowledge. You use your Intelligence whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for an apothecary spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one. Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Ritual Casting You can cast an apothecary spell as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag and you have the spell prepared. Spellcasting Focus You can use an arcane focus (see the Adventuring Gear section of the Core Rules) as a spellcasting focus for your apothecary spells. Occult Practices At 1st level, you take up one of the Occult Practices , a chosen discipline which defines your ongoing research of the body and spirit: the Alienist , the Chemist , the Exorcist , the Mutagenist , the Pathogenist , or the Reanimator . Your choice grants you additional proficiencies and an expanded spell list at 1st level, and additional class features at 3rd, 6th, 10th, 14th, and 18th level. Esoteric Theories You have discovered esoteric theories, scraps of forbidden lore that you can use to augment your magical abilities. At 2nd level, you gain two esoteric theories of your choice. Your theory options are detailed at the end of the class description. When you gain certain apothecary levels, you gain additional theories of your choice, as shown in the Theories Known column of the Apothecary table. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the theories you know and replace it with another theory that you could learn at that level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Using the optional feats rule, you can forgo taking this feature to take a feat of your choice instead. Greater Formula At 11th level, you discover a magical secret called a Greater Formula . Choose one 6th-level spell from the apothecary spell list as this formula. You can cast your Greater Formula once without expending a spell slot. You must finish a long rest before you can do so again. At higher levels, you gain more apothecary spells of your choice that can be cast in this way: one 7th-level spell at 13th level, one 8th-level spell at 15th level, and one 9th-level spell at 17th level. You learn an additional 6th level spell at 19th level, and an additional 7th level spell at 20th level. You regain all uses when you finish a long rest. Master Reformulation. Whenever you finish a long rest and consult your formula book, you can replace one spell you gained from this feature with another spell of the same level from the Apothecary spell list. Miraculous Recovery At 20th level, you can spend 5 minutes channeling power into a number of creatures (which can include yourself) equal to your Intelligence modifier to facilitate an abnormally fast recovery. You must tend to the creatures during this period, using a Healer's Kit with at least one use remaining. The targets regain hit points, spell slots, hit dice, and other abilities as if they completed a long rest. A creature can only benefit from one Miraculous Recovery in a 24-hour period. Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a long rest. Optional Rule: Multiclassing If you allow characters to use the Multiclassing optional rules, here are the requirements for multiclassing with the Apothecary Ability Score Minimum. Multiclass characters must meet ability score prerequisites for both their current class(es) and their new one. Taking multiclass levels as an Apothecary requires an Intelligence score of 13 or higher. Proficiencies. If apothecary isn't your initial class, when you take your first level as an apothecary you gain proficiency in light armor and one tool proficiency of your choice. Apothecary Magic. If you have both the Spellcasting class feature and the Apothecary Magic class feature, you can use the spell slots you gain from the Apothecary Magic feature to cast spells you know or have prepared from classes with the Spellcasting class feature, and you can use the spell slots you gain from the Spellcasting class feature to cast apothecary spells you know. Esoteric Theories. Meeting the prerequisites for Esoteric Theories is based on total apothecary levels, not the overall character level. In addition, the Surgical Strikes esoteric theory does not give you additional attacks if you have the Extra Attack class feature. Apothecary Esoteric Theories Apothecaries develop esoteric theories during their adventures and experiments, representing their own unique synthesis of medical and occult practices. The description of each esoteric theory details the benefits you gain from selecting that theory. Some esoteric theories specify a minimum apothecary level. You can't learn such an esoteric theory until you are at least that level. Unless an esoteric theory's description says otherwise, you can't learn an esoteric theory more than once. Acquired Tolerance You have advantage on saving throws against poison, and you gain resistance to poison damage. In addition, you automatically succeed on saving throws against your own apothecary spells, and never take damage from your own apothecary spells. Adrenaline Surge Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary A creature at 0 hit points who regains hit points from a spell you cast using an apothecary spell slot gains resistance to all damage and has advantage on saving throws until the end of its next turn. It gains advantage on the first attack roll it makes on its next turn. Anatomical Precision When you make a weapon attack, you can use your Intelligence modifier, instead of Strength or Dexterity, for the attack and damage rolls. Anesthesiology Prerequisites: 14th-level apothecary You can cast Hold Person without expending a spell slot or requiring material components. You must finish a long rest before you can use this theory on the same creature again. Bedside Manner You gain proficiency in the Insight and Persuasion skills. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses either of these skills. Caustic Formulae Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary Once per turn when you deal damage to a creature or object with an apothecary spell, you can expend an apothecary spell slot to deal 2d4 extra acid damage to that target, plus another 2d4 per level of the spell slot. Clinical Conditioning Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary You gain proficiency in Constitution saving throws. Combat Medic You gain proficiency with martial weapons and shields. Corrosive Compound Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary When you deal poison damage with your apothecary spells, you can choose to deal half the spell's damage as poison damage and half the spell's damage as acid damage instead. Cosmetic Surgery You can spend 8 hours performing an occult surgical procedure upon a willing creature, permanently transforming its appearance. You decide what the creature looks like, including facial features, the sound of its voice, hair length, coloration, and distinguishing characteristics, but none of its game statistics change. You can't alter the size of a creature, and its basic shape stays the same. The resulting transformation is non-magical, however, a Greater Restoration spell or similar magic cast upon the creature can restore it to its original appearance. Critical Condition Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary When a creature rolls a natural 1 on a saving throw made against one of your apothecary spells that deals damage, roll all of the spell's damage dice twice and add them together. Then add any relevant modifiers as normal to determine the damage that creature takes from the spell. Diagnosis You can take the Help action as a bonus action on your turn. Doctor's Note Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary You can cast the Sending spell at-will. You must finish a long rest before you can use this theory to contact the same creature again. Double Dose Prerequisites: 10th-level apothecary When you cast an apothecary spell using an apothecary spell slot that targets a single creature and restores hit points to that creature, you can target an additional creature within range. Extracurricular Research You learn two additional cantrips of your choice from any class's spell list. These cantrips become apothecary cantrips for you. Inoculation You have resistance to necrotic damage, and your hit point maximum can't be reduced. In addition, you are immune to diseases. Interdisciplinary Practice Prerequisites: 14th-level apothecary When you use your action to cast a spell, you can make one weapon attack as a bonus action. Laboratory Assistant You learn the spell Find Familiar , and always have this spell prepared. It doesn't count against the number of apothecary spells you can prepare. Liability Insurance Prerequisites: 14th-level apothecary You can cast Contingency once on yourself without material components. You can't do so again until you finish a long rest. Medical Expertise You gain proficiency in the Medicine and Nature skills. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses either of these skills. Medical Lexicon You learn six languages of your choice. You can cast detect poison and disease at will. Nerve Agent Prerequisites: 14th-level apothecary When you deal poison damage with your apothecary spells, you can choose to deal psychic damage instead. Noxious Blood Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary When a creature hits you with a melee attack while within 5 feet of you, it takes poison damage equal to 1d6 + your Constitution modifier. Pharmacology When you cast a spell using an apothecary spell slot or your Greater Formula feature which restores hit points to a creature, the creature regains additional hit points equal to your Intelligence modifier. Physiological Analysis If you spend at least 1 minute observing or interacting with another creature outside combat, you can learn certain information about its physiology. The Game Master reveals to you two of the following characteristics of your choice: Any one ability score Armor Class Current hit points Resistances (if any) Immunities (if any) Vulnerabilities (if any) Alternatively, you can spend 1 minute observing a corpse. After 1 minute, you determine the cause of death. Practical Resuscitation Prerequisites: 10th-level apothecary When you cast a spell that has the sole effect of restoring a creature to life (but not undeath), such as Raise Dead , you don't need material components to cast the spell if the creature has died within the past hour. Putrefaction Your apothecary spells and abilities ignore undead creatures' resistance or immunity to poison damage and immunity to the poisoned condition. Rapid Response When you cast an apothecary spell that restores hit points to a creature, before or after casting the spell, you can move your speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Routine Procedure Prerequisites: 10th-level apothecary You can cast Lesser Restoration at-will without expending a spell slot. Stolen Secrets Prerequisites: 10th-level apothecary You learn one spell from any class's spell list. It must be of a level for which you have apothecary spell slots or lower. The spell is treated as an apothecary spell for you, and doesn't count against the number of apothecary spells you know. Subject Preparation Prerequisites: 10th-level apothecary When you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, that creature has disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes against an apothecary spell you cast before the end of your next turn. Surgeon's Instinct You have blindsight out to a range of 10 feet. Surgical Strikes Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary You can attack twice, instead of once, when you take the Attack action on your turn. Toxicology Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary You add your Intelligence modifier to the damage rolls of spells that deal poison damage. Triage You learn the Spare the Dying cantrip if you don't know it already. When you cast this cantrip, it has a range of 60 feet. Unfailing Focus Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary When you fail a Constitution saving throw to maintain concentration on an apothecary spell, you can choose to succeed instead. Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a short or long rest. Venomous Instruments Prerequisites: 10th-level apothecary When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, the creature takes extra poison damage equal to your Intelligence modifier. Virulence When you roll a 1 on a damage die for an apothecary spell that deals poison damage, you can reroll the die. You must use the new result, even if the new roll is a 1. Vital Signs When a creature you can see within 30 feet of you fails a saving throw or death saving throw, you can use your reaction to add your Intelligence modifier to the creature's roll, potentially turning a failure into a success. You must finish a short rest before you can use this theory on the same creature again. Vivisection Prerequisites: 6th-level apothecary Your weapon attacks score a critical hit on a 19 or 20. Apothecary Spell List Below is the list of spells you consult when you learn an apothecary spell. The list is organized by spell level, not character level. If a spell can be cast as a ritual, the ritual tag (r) appears after the spell's name. Each spell is in the Fifth Edition core rules, unless it has one asterisk, which indicates that it is a new spell described in Chapter 4 of this book. Apothecaries may also learn any Contaminated Spell, a new type of spell found in chapter 4 of this book. Contaminated Spells are available to apothecaries only if found during their adventures, and cannot be chosen normally. Cantrips Acid Burn * Acid Splash Bacterial Barrage * Chill Touch Guidance Light Mending Message Poison Needle * Poison Spray Resistance Shocking Grasp Spare the Dying Thaumaturgy 1st Level Acrid Orb * Alarm (r) Comprehend Languages (r) Create or Destroy Water Cure Wounds Detect Evil and Good Detect Magic (r) Detect Poison and Disease (r) Envenom * False Life Feather Fall Floating Disk (r) Fog Cloud Grease Healing Word Hideous Laughter Identify (r) Illusory Script (r) Infect * Jump Purify Food and Drink (r) Sleep Stream of Consumption * Toxic Shield * Unseen Servant (r) 2nd Level Acid Arrow Aid Biohazard * Blindness/Deafness Caustic Grip * Enhance Ability Enlarge/Reduce Gentle Repose (r) Grasping Ghost * Hold Person Invigorate * Lesser Restoration Ocular Necrosis * Protection from Poison Ray of Enfeeblement See Invisibility Silence (r) Spider Climb Web 3rd Level Bestow Curse Corrosive Blast * Dispel Magic Fear Fetid Blade * Gaseous Form Glyph of Warding Haste Hypnotic Pattern Magic Circle Mass Healing Word Pestilence * Purge Contamination * Protection from Energy Remove Curse Revivify Sending Slow Speak with Dead Stinking Cloud Tranquilizing Toxin * Vampiric Touch Venomous Aura * Water Breathing (r) 4th Level Black Tentacles Blight Blood Worm * Corpse Explosion * Corrupting Spores * Death Ward Freedom of Movement Last Rites * Poison Wave * Polymorph Stoneskin Vitriol Ichor * 5th Level Acid Rain * Antilife Shell Cloudkill Contact Other Plane (r) Greater Restoration Hold Monster Mass Cure Wounds Nerve Gas * Raise Dead Scrying Septic Shock * Telepathic Bond (r) Teleportation Circle Toxic Barrage * 6th Level Chain Lightning Circle of Death Create Undead Disintegrate Eyebite Flesh to Stone Globe of Invulnerability Harm Heal Mephitic Vapors * True Seeing Vile Necrosis * 7th Level Etherealness Finger of Death Forcecage Miasma * Plane Shift Prismatic Spray Grievous Wounds * Regenerate Resurrection 8th Level Antimagic Field Antipathy/Sympathy Breath of Nightshade * Clone Dominate Monster Feeblemind Mind Blank Plague Wind * Power Word Stun 9th Level Astral Projection Foresight Mass Heal Pandemic * Power Word Kill Time Stop Touch of Death * True Polymorph True Resurrection

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 29025

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Sebastian Crowe’s Guide to Drakkenheim - Expansion Rules

