# Artist - Artista

**description**: As if idly pondering where to hang the self-portrait he was holding, Menico Ghini looked around his new home. The house was a definite improvement on the one he had left behind in Torino just a few days ago, and a huge step up from the one he had grown up in all those decades ago. He had done well, all things considered, slowly but steadily accumuLating some modest wealth over the long years in which he had honed and practiced his craft. He knew how to paint in a way that was popular with men of means, and with their wives and mistresses, but not too singularly in one recognizable style. Being recognizable in his work was not something he wanted, and it was also the reason why he kept subtly changing his way of painting. He did not want to be thought an imitator of his own work from long ago – precisely because it was long ago that he sold his first painting. Too long for him to be the person that painted it and still seem to be in his early thirties. He sighed and took one last look at the self-portrait showing the features of an old, wasted man before he wrapped it up again and put it back in its padlocked chest. The Renaissance is a time of explosive developments in the arts, and Possibility is strengthened by it. Every artist creates by using colors, shapes or sounds to change the world. Imagine a stone, the epitome of Permanence! A talented sculptor can transform it into something completely different and enthrall those who see the piece. As John D. Sinclair, the translator and commentator of the Divina Commedia put it: “The true artist serves an end beyond himself in which his work has its place and value and in which he must be content to be surpassed.” Such artists are not just talented artisans, but – like the philosophers – true polymaths who excel in different fields of the arts based on a profound general education. Even more than that: due to your profound enlightenment, you work true magic through your manipulation of the cosmic forces Permanence and Possibility, like those rare geniuses Leonardo da Vinci or Michelangelo Buonarotti. Upbringing and career: From early youth onwards, you have studied with one of the renowned masters of the time, assisting them in their work and later taking over responsibility for entire projects. The members of this workshop have therefore been your family until you founded your own. You are versed in painting, drawing, sculpture, architecture and most likely also woodcutting. One of these fields will be your specialty, and you might even neglect the other arts. The legendary Michelangelo Buonarotti, who was commissioned to paint the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, actually always saw himself as a sculptor and loathed having to spend years of his life painting – even if it was in the Vatican. Apart from your art, you also have a well-founded basic knowledge in history and the liberal arts. Your works are, after all, full of allegories, references and interpretations of the most important writings of both the present time and of the classical era. You have probably worked for many important families, the Church or even the rulers of a state. Artist Powers The artist has access to various unique powers. Some are Starting Powers, automatically gained at character creation, and others are Advanced Powers, gained as she progresses in levels. Consult the Artist Table to see which power is learned at which level, and how many total Weave Points she has at any given point. Artist Table Level Proficiency Bonus Powers WP 1 +2 Perfect Recall 2 2 +2 Perfect Judge 4 3 +2 Phantom Confessor 6 4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 8 5 +3 It Has Always Been So 10 6 +3 Superior Recall 12 7 +3 Phantom Mentor 14 8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 16 9 +4 Witness 18 10 +4 Spell Locket 20 11 +4 Things Might Be Different 22 12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 24 13 +5 Superior Likeness 26 14 +5 Homecoming 28 15 +5 The Secret Garden 30 16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 32 17 +6 Artist's Homunculus 34 18 +6 Dorianus Griseus 36 19 +6 Ability Score Improvement 38 20 +6 Pygmalion's Folly 40 Class Features As an artist, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per artist level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per artist level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: light armor Weapons: simple weapons, hand crossbows, longswords, rapier, shortswords Tools: Portable painting, drawing and / or whittling kit Saving Throws: Dexterity, Wisdom Skills: You need to pick Fine Arts and can choose two additional from Artes Liberales, Courtly Manners, History, Insight, Perception, Persuasion and Religion. Spell Save DC: 8 + Your proficiency bonus + Your Dexterity modifier Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a simple weapon, (b) a hand crossbow or (c) a rapier (a) a diplomat’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack Leather armor and a dagger 20 medium sized sheets of paper, canvas and a wooden frame a lamp, a flask of oil, a jug or pitcher Starting Powers: Weave Points, Likeness, The Artist’s Eye, The Artist’s Hand, The Artist’s Heart, The Artist’s Favor Advanced Powers: Perfect Recall, Perfect Judge, Phantom Confessor, It Has Always Been So, Superior Recall, Phantom Mentor, Witness, Spell Locket, Things Might Be Different, Superior Likeness, Homecoming, The Secret Garden, Artist’s Homunculus, Dorianus Griseus, Pygmalion’s Folly Starting Powers Weave Points You can use Weave Points to manipulate the forces of Possibility and Permanence and power a variety of abilities. Refer to the Artist Table for the points gained at various levels. Weave Points are either spent immediately upon use of a power, or invested into a power that is either set to be triggered at some later point or is continuous until purposely ended. Invested points can not be regained until the power they are invested in has been used or ended. Once the prepared power has been used, the invested Weave Points can be regained during the next long rest as normal. Likeness Cost: 1 Weave Point (invested) Most artist features involve the creation of a Likeness, which is a depiction of a creature or place which is then imbued with an invested Weave Point to prime it for other features to be used on it. This is the basic requirement for most higher level artist features and is accomplished with the Artist’s Hand feature (see below). It is possible to create a depiction and only later invest it with a Weave Point to prime it for the use of other features. The Artist’s Eye The artist’s powers of observation become so uncanny over time that it takes less and less time to notice an ever greater wealth of detail. You can thoroughly memorize a person or object or entire landscape to a sufficient degree that you can make a Likeness in an astonishingly short time. To see how long you need to fully take in your surroundings, subtract the artist’s proficiency bonus from 3 minutes. Once you get to less than a minute, subtract the surplus proficiency bonus from 10 Combat Rounds. Your memory remains perfect for a number of days equivalent to your proficiency bonus. Once your memory has begun to fade, you will need to make use of the advanced power Perfect Recall (see below) to refresh it. The Artist’s Hand The artist becomes ever faster at drawing, painting or sculpting. While at first level he must labor over a painting for some time, at high levels his ability to make something come to life at a rapid pace seems almost supernatural. To see how long it takes to create a useable Likeness, subtract the artist’s proficiency bonus from 5 minutes. Once you get to less than a minute, subtract the surplus proficiency bonus from 10 Combat Rounds. The Artist’s Heart Range: self The artist can enhance a Perception or Insight check with Weave Points on a one-for-one basis up to the level of his proficiency bonus. The Artist’s Favor Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Duration: 1 round Cost: – You carefully craft small inert Likenesses (no invested WP) of your party members (or any other characters well-known to you) and carry them with you for unlimited use. Such a Favor Likeness can be activated by quickly sketching a small symbol on it while the target is within 30 feet. The symbol vanishes moments after use. Each Favor Likeness can depict only one person, so each round you can only have one single target. Depending on the symbol used, you can impart one of the following effects on the target until the start of your next turn: Grant the target damage resistance to one type of damage of your choice Change of damage type inflicted by the target Make a weapon held by the target briefly magical Advanced Powers Perfect Recall Requirements: Level 1 Casting Time: 1 action Range: self Duration: instantaneous Cost: 1 WP The artist has perfect recall of any specific occurrence he or she has personally witnessed, including all senses (sound, smells, sights, touch) or any person or object he has ever seen. Perfect Judge Requirements: Level 2 Casting Time: reaction Range: 150 feet Duration: instantaneous Cost: 1 WP Using his uncanny powers of observation, the artist can predict an observed person’s next action and either impose a penalty of 1d4 on the opponent’s action or receive a bonus of 1d4 for his opposing action if appropriate.The penalty or bonus becomes 1d6 at level 5, 1d8 at level 10 and 1d10 at level 15. Phantom Confessor Requirements: Level 3 Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Duration: 10 minutes Cost: 3 WP In your mind’s eye, converse with or interrogate any one person you can see at the time: you can ask up to 3 questions. You can use Perception or Insight checks as you would in an actual conversation. If you have at hand a Likeness instead of the actual person, you can have this conversation with the depicted Likeness of that person. The avatar will respond as the actual person would, so is able to dissemble or lie. The avatar can’t refuse to interact, however. The target is not aware of the use of this feature. It Has Always Been So Requirements: Level 5 Casting Time: 1 action Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: special Cost: 4 WP Imbue a Likeness of a place you have made with additional Weave Points to alter that place. For example, when in a prison cell, the artist could draw that cell with its door open. Upon expenditure of the Weave Points the change will become manifested (in this example, the door will open), and the Likeness will be destroyed. A painting of a river could establish a bridge in reality if the artist adds it in the Likeness. The change in reality will remain until the artist’s next short or long rest. Superior Recall Requirements: Level 6 Casting Time: 1 action Range: self Duration: concentration (up tp 10 minutes) Cost: 2 WP As Perfect Recall, but the artist can witness the scene from any point within 20 feet of his or her actual position at the time. As even a second ago is the past, it is effectively possible to do this practically in real time. You can’t take any action at all while using this feature. And no, the artist can’t stay in the remembered scene past the point he originally witnessed. Phantom Mentor Requirements: Level 7 Casting Time: 10 minute ritual Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: special Cost: 2 WP per Ability Contest Influence a person you have faithfully depicted in a Likeness through a diligent process of influence through conversation. Suggestions, threats or observations you make towards the depiction of your target (the avatar) will gradually have an effect on the real person. The target will be unable to explain how the changes in his or her thinking or emotional state came about, but will somehow rationalize the change. The artist and the target engage in one single Charisma (Persuasion) contest per day, and each time the artist wins the target’s mind is changed in a small way determined by the GM. Witness Requirements: Level 9 Casting Time: 1 action Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: special Cost: 1 WP per minute for 1 sense in your mind’s eye, 1 WP for each additional sense for the entire duration, 1 WP to let others witness with you for the entire duration. By concentrating on a Likeness you have created you can observe the depicted place or person, allowing you to spy on it. The cost depends on the number of senses involved and whether you observe the target in your mind’s eye only or make its actions visible for others observing the likeness with you. Spell Locket Requirements: Level 10 Casting Time: 10 minute ritual Range: touch Duration: unlimited Cost: 1 WP (invested) per level of the spell slot Create an object that will store a spell effect for one use. Any spell caster can cast that spell for the artist. The artist must decide on a spell slot level when creating the object and must be present when a spell is loaded into that slot by a spellcaster (who must actually expend that spell). It is possible to create an object with a certain level spell slot and then at some later date load it with any spell of that or lesser level (but still only one single spell per object). Use of the spell destroys the object (it will crumble). Only the artist can trigger the spell. Things Might Be Different Requirements: Level 11 Casting Time: 1 minute ritual Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: special Cost: 3 WP initially, then 2WP per day Imbue a Likeness you have created with Weave Points to incrementally alter reality. For example, a depiction of a lowly person as a person of wealth and power will result in a trickle of good fortune towards that person until he or she has achieved the depicted state. This requires a steady expenditure of 1 Weave Point per day. If the expenditure of Weave Points ist ever halted, the effect ends, the scales of fate right themselves again, and the person is again master of their own luck. Whether they can hold on to their new status or wealth is up to them now. The feature can’t alter a person in any way that would normally require a level increase (so, no Ability increases, for example). It is possible to influence matters of fate surrounding the target, so changes in wealth, luck and public perception are possible. For double the daily Weave Point cost (4 WP), positive changes in mental and physical health are possible. Dismay points can be erased at a rate of 1 per 3 days, or you can completely cure a disease over the course of one week, or heal 2d6 hit points per day (at level 11 3d6, at level 15 4d6). It is not possible to reverse aging with this power. Superior Likeness Requirements: Level 13 Casting Time: 1 action Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: special Cost: 3 WP (invested) Upgrade a Likeness you made with additional Weave Points to enable it to transfer the effects of spells to the target. A magic-user targets the Likeness as if it were the depicted person or object iteself, and the depicted person or object suffers the spell’s effects. Each use of a spell on the target may destroy the Superior Likeness: if the target makes a successful Constitution saving throw after the spell has been transferred (this is separate from any saves versus the spell’s effects), the Superior Likeness is destroyed. Homecoming Requirements: Level 14 Casting Time: special Range: touch (the Likeness)/unlimited Duration: special Cost: 2 WP (invested), 1 WP tp transfer Paint a room you are intimately familiar with, such as your own study, and imbue this Likeness with (invested) Weave Points The process of enabling the Likeness to allow Homecoming takes 1 minute – making it ready for imminent use then requires a short preparation that takes only 1 action. You can then travel instantly to the depicted room whenever you wish with the expenditure of 1 Weave Point in the course of 1 action. The act of doing so destroys the painting a few moments after the transition is complete, and the invested Weave Points can be regained with the next long rest. To accommodate the transfer of additional people with the artist, an additional 1 Weave Point per person other than the artist must be spent as each of them goes through. In this case, the artist goes through last, triggering the end of the effect. Each person going through needs to spend 1 action. The painting has to be large enough to at least reach through with one hand. The Secret Garden Requirements: Level 15 Casting Time: 1 action Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: special Cost: 2 WP (invested) Create a Likeness of an imaginary place, usually a room with a shelf, and imbue it with 2 invested Weave Points. You may then transfer objects into that place and retrieve them whenever you wish. Each object stored requires an expenditure of an additional invested 1 Weave Point above the creation cost. This invested Weave Point is regained at the next long rest after the object is retrieved from the Secret Garden. Artist’s Homunculus Requirements: Level 17 Casting Time: 1 hour ritual Range: touch (the Likeness)Duration: permanent Cost: 10 WP + 1 WP (invested) for compliance (optional) Imbue a Likeness of a person with a semblance of life. If in a painting, the depiction will become animated like an actual person, can move about in the background of the painting (or drawing) and can speak with the artist. By investing one additional Weave Point while creating the image, it can be made more compliant, otherwise it will have free will. It is possible to use this feature on a sculpture but it will not be able to move about; instead, it will mostly retain its pose except for the animation of its facial features and the ability to turn its head or move its arms. A bust is of course also an option. The personality and knowledge of the homunculus depend on the creation process, and also whether it is a depiction of a real person or wholly imaginary.The homunculus receives 12 skill points in total which can be assigned to any skill or skills of the artist’s choosing – one skill with a rating of 12 is possible, as are 12 skills with a rating of 1 each, or anything in between. When the homunculus makes a skill check, it rolls a d20 + skill rating. The point distribution is decided upon creation of the homunculus and cannot be altered later on.The artist can only have one homunculus at any given time. And do remember that the creation of a Likeness requires investment of 1 Weave Point to begin with. Dorianus Griseus Requirements: Level 18 Casting Time: 1 day ritual Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: permanent Cost: 20 WP to create + 4 WP (invested) Create a lifelike self-portrait (drawing, painting or sculpture) which can then draw negative effects into itself from the artist. Half of any damage (no matter what kind, even aging effects) inflicted upon the artist will instead be transferred to the artist’s likeness in the painting, no matter how far artist and painting are separated. That likeness can accumulate age and damage indefinitely. If the artwork is ever destroyed, the artist immediately suffers the following consequences: 1d6 damage for every full 10 years of the artwork’s existence, incapacitated for 1d6 minutes, immediately (in a matter of minutes) age half as many years as the artwork has existed. The artist can only have one such object at any time. Pygmalion’s Folly Requirements: Level 20 Casting Time: 1 action Range: touch (the Likeness) Duration: special Cost: 20 WP to create + 2 WP (invested) Imbue a perfect Likeness of a humanoid or animal with actual life. A painted creature will come to life inside the environment depicted in the painting and can exit from there into the real world if the artist possesses the Homecoming feature to facilitate this. A sculpture will simply come to life as a real person indistinguishable from a real human being. If the person is a true depiction of an existing person, it will think itself that person if you invest an extra 1 Weave Point during the process of creation. Otherwise the newly created person will be of a childlike disposition, but mature rapidly. The Artist's Favor Perfect Recall Perfect Judge Phantom Confessor It Has Always Been So Superior Recall Phantom Mentor Witness Spell Locket Things Might Be Different Superior Likeness Homecoming The Secret Garden Artist's Comunculus Dorianus Griseus Pygmalion's Folly

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

