# Beastheart

**description**: Erupting out of the sand on the back of a bulette, a half-orc leaps into the air. They cleave a path through armored skeletons with a greatsword while their mount charges in the opposite direction, leaving a cloud of powdered bone in their wake. A halfling flies over a burning forest on the back of a baby green dragon. The wyrmling sniffs the air and cries out, pointing with a claw to indicate a safe path to lead fearful forest creatures through the conflagration. Sneaking upside down next to their giant spider companion, a half-elf’s web-covered feet keep them securely attached to a cavern ceiling. The bandits below have no idea that their camp has been infiltrated, and that their days of attacking local settlements are at an end. A beastheart is an adventurer who forms a bond of friendship with a wild creature, and who draws power from that bond as it strengthens over time. Working as a team, a beastheart and their faithful companion can take on even the most dangerous adventures, challenging any monsters and overcoming any obstacles. Supernatural Bond The connection a beastheart and a companion share isn’t just one of love and admiration. It’s a mystical bond that allows the beastheart to harness their companion’s fury, might, and instincts for survival. When their companion is enraged, a beastheart channels that ferocity into supernatural deeds of martial prowess. In return, the wild companion can harness the beastheart’s focus and direction. This supernatural kinship can form over a long period of time. Some beasthearts bond with unorthodox pets or wild protectors as children, becoming ever closer as both grow up together. Other beasthearts come of age in the wilderness, raised among wild creatures—or even raised by them—as a means of learning to respect and embrace the might of nature. But the beastheart bond can also form more quickly, typically in times of great duress. A person lost and starving in the wild might become a beastheart when they connect with a creature that saves their life by providing food and shelter. Or a wild creature injured and beset by poachers can befriend a character who saves their life, with the creature’s gratitude forging the beastheart bond. Not every person is cut out to become a beastheart, just as not every animal is meant to be a companion. The pair must share an innate wildness and an unwavering trust in order to form this rare fellowship. Companions, Not Pets Most beasthearts have no desire to fully tame their wild friends, for doing so would rob beloved companions of their personalities and fighting spirit. Instead, a beastheart views themself as a caregiver, looking after a companion whose heart is as fierce and open as their own. The companion shares a similar view, thinking of their beastheart as a member of the pack, and treating a caregiver as a sibling always ready to explore, hunt, and play. Wild at Heart To an outsider, a beastheart and a companion might appear to be equals. (The companion most likely feels that way!) But the beastheart is always aware that their companion is a force of nature, not a domesticated creature. As such, a beastheart accepts that their companion might not be capable of deep introspection, as most companions live for the moment, dwell not on the past, and give little thought to the future. It’s thus the beastheart’s responsibility to do those things for themself and their wild friend, taking responsibility for a companion as a parent might care for a child, and grieving if the wild heart they’ve cared for is ever stilled. Untamed Pair Like the companions who stalk and explore at their sides, beasthearts bear a wondrous connection to the natural world, allowing them to track prey, survive in harsh environments, and get along even with wild creatures that aren’t their companions. Many beasthearts are most at home in the wilderness, sleeping under the stars and enjoying the bounty of nature. Even when beasthearts and their companions make their lives in towns or cities, the untamed wilds beyond a settlement or the endless depths beneath it are often on their minds, constantly calling them to adventure. Creating a Beastheart As you create your beastheart character, consider the history of your friendship with your companion. Did you find the creature as a child and grow up together? Or did you form a bond with them only recently? Is this the first companion you’ve had, and are you the first person to whom your companion has bonded in this way? Think about the moment you became friends and the trials you’ve already faced. You might have survived in the wilderness together while one of you was injured. You might have saved your companion from trophy hunters. Or your companion might have instead saved your life by fighting off a deadly enemy. Consider your companion’s personality and tastes. Are they rambunctious or lazy? Standoffish or friendly? What tricks can you perform together? What is your companion’s favorite food? You should also think about how your companion and you complement each other in looks or personality. Does your appearance reflect or contrast theirs? What activities do you both enjoy? How do you communicate with your companion? And how do you encourage others to communicate with and show respect for your friend? Quick Build You can make a beastheart quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Dexterity your highest ability score (or Strength if you want to use a melee weapon), followed by Wisdom. Second, choose the outlander background. Beastheart Inspiration Heroes who undertake great adventures with loyal creatures at their sides are a mainstay of stories and folk tales from countless cultures, with many of those older tales inspiring the fantasy novels and films of the modern age. Inspirations for for the beastheart include How to Train Your Dragon , His Dark Materials , Race the Sands , and Phoenix Extravagant just to name a few. In many of those stories, the heroes can not only communicate with their companion creatures, but share connections to those friends that grant them supernatural powers or incredible physical talents. It’s these sorts of connections that inspire the features of the beastheart class, making a beastheart and their companion much more powerful in tandem than either would be while adventuring alone. Multiclassing and the Beastheart If your group uses the optional rule for multiclassing, here’s what you need to know if you choose beastheart as one of your classes. Ability Score Minimum. As a multiclass character, you must have at least a Strength or Dexterity score of 13 and a Wisdom score of 13 to take a level in this class, or to take a level in another class if you are already a beastheart. Proficiencies Gained. If beastheart isn’t your initial class, you gain no new proficiencies when you take your first level as a beastheart. Multiclassing Options Players in campaigns using the optional multiclassing rules might be tempted to take one level in the beastheart class simply to gain a companion, since the companion’s hit points and ferocity actions improve as the character advances in any class (not just in the beastheart class). However, you’re actually better off asking your GM for a companion creature and advancing in your current class, since a single level in the beastheart class doesn’t gain you much other than the companion. The Beastheart Level Proficiency Bonus Primal Exploits Features 1st +2 — Companion, Natural Language 2nd +2 3 Primal Exploits, Improved Ferocity 3rd +2 3 Companion Bond, Master Caregiver 4th +2 3 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 3 Beyond Instinct, Improved Signature Attack (1 die) 6th +3 3 Faithful Companion, Rejuvenating Ferocity 7th +3 3 Companion Bond feature 8th +3 3 Ability Score Improvement, Primal Strike (1d8) 9th +4 3 Mystic Connection 10th +4 5 Beyond Instinct improvement, Primal Exploits improvement 11th +4 5 Improved Signature Attack (2 dice), Companion Bond feature 12th +4 5 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 5 Loyal to the End 14th +5 5 Keen Senses, Primal Strike (2d8) 15th +5 5 Beyond Instinct improvement, Companion Bond feature 16th +5 5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 7 Improved Signature Attack (3 dice), Primal Exploits improvement 18th +6 7 Summon the Wilds 19th +6 7 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 7 Unbreakable Friendship Class Features As a beastheart, you gain the following class features, which are summarized on the Beastheart table. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per beastheart level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per beastheart level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, battleaxes, greataxes, longbows, nets, scimitars, shortswords Tools: None Saving Throws: Strength, Wisdom Skills: Choose three from Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature, Perception, Stealth, and Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: hide armor; or leather armor, a longbow, and 20 arrows a martial weapon and a shield; or two martial weapons two handaxes or any simple weapon a dungeoneer’s pack or an explorer’s pack Companion At 1st level, you gain a companion creature that accompanies you on your adventures, fighting, exploring, and living alongside you. You can choose any companion in this supplement or other MCDM supplements. You might also find some cool companions on the MCDM subreddit and in the MCDM Discord server . The Companions section above has information on fifteen companion creatures you can choose for your beastheart, and information on the rules for using companions (including ferocity and entering a rampage). Your supernatural connection to your companion binds their life to yours, allowing you to help your companion overcome even the most grievous injuries. If your companion has lost hit points or is dead, you can spend 1 minute meditating on your companion’s spirit. The companion then regains all their hit points and returns to life if they were dead, and you gain one level of exhaustion. If the companion’s body was destroyed, they reform within 5 feet of you. The first time you finish a long rest after you gain a level in this class, you can bond with a new companion of your choice, which arrives in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you in a manner determined by the GM. If you already have a companion from this feature, they leave to be on their own when the new companion arrives. Natural Language From 1st level, you can comprehend and verbally communicate with your companion, as well as with all Beasts and Monstrosities. This feature doesn’t allow you to communicate complex thoughts or questions, but you can make simple statements (such as showing other creatures you mean them no harm) or ask simple questions (such as the location of the nearest body of water, or if a specific individual with a unique look passed through the area recently). The knowledge and awareness of such creatures is limited by their intellect, and the GM determines if a particular creature is in a communicative mood. While speaking with a Beast or Monstrosity using this feature, you can make Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks in place of Charisma checks to influence the creature. Primal Exploits Starting at 2nd level, you learn to channel your companion’s fury into extraordinary deeds called primal exploits, which are fueled by your companion’s ferocity. You learn three primal exploits of your choice, detailed below. You learn two additional exploits of your choice at 10th and 17th level. Whenever you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the primal exploits you know and replace it with another primal exploit, for which you must have the appropriate beastheart level. Some exploits are activated using your reaction. Others are usable under specific circumstances but require no action. Some exploits are activated as part of the Attack action, in which case, you can use only one such exploit per turn. All exploits require you to spend your companion’s ferocity to use them. Your companion must be within 60 feet of you when you use an exploit, and must have ferocity at least equal to the exploit’s cost. The companion loses ferocity equal to the cost when you use the exploit. You can use an exploit even if your companion is unconscious, as long as they have the appropriate ferocity. You can’t use an exploit while your companion has entered a rampage. Some exploits allow a companion to make a signature attack. This signature attack can’t be modified with additional exploits or used as part of a ferocity action. Exploit Save DC Some of your exploits require creatures to make a saving throw to resist the exploit’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Exploit save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier Saving throws for your exploits use your exploit save DC even if the action that triggers the saving throw is undertaken by your companion. Your exploit save DC also adjusts the DC of your companion’s ferocity actions (see Improved Ferocity below). Primal Exploits Exploit Your Action Used Beastheart Level Ferocity Cost Aid Us, Friend Attack action 2nd 3 Bring Them Down Reaction 2nd 4 Drag Them Reaction 2nd 4 Feral Reflexes Reaction 2nd 2 Hurricane Blow Attack action 2nd 3 No Escape No action 2nd 1+ Primal Pounce Reaction 2nd 3 Quick Hide Attack action 2nd 2 Thrash Reaction 2nd 4 Crushing Charge Action 10th 8 Expanding Fury Reaction 10th 6 Furious Vengeance Reaction 10th 5 Marked Prey Reaction 10th 4 Primal Shout Action 10th 6 Wrath of the Pack No action 10th 4 Blood Sport No action 17th 16 Break the Earth Action 17th 14 Bury the Dead Action 17th 16 Imbue Projectile Action 17th 14 Rend Action 17th 12 Spirit Form Bonus Action 17th 14 Primal Exploits: 2nd Level You can take any of the following exploits when you gain this feature at 2nd level, or when you gain new exploits at 10th and 17th levels. Aid Us, Friend (3 Ferocity). You can activate this exploit whenever you take the Attack action. Before or after you attack, your companion can take the Help action as a bonus action. Bring Them Down (4 Ferocity). When your companion hits a creature with their signature attack, you can use your reaction to command the companion to yank the target down. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or fall prone. Drag Them (4 Ferocity). When your companion hits a Large or smaller creature with their signature attack and both the companion and the target are standing on the ground, you can use your reaction to command your companion to move the target. The target must make a Strength saving throw. On a failure, the companion moves up to half their walking speed in any direction you choose and pulls the target with it. Feral Reflexes (2 Ferocity). When you or your companion is hit by an attack, you can use your reaction to increase the target’s AC by 2 against the triggering attack. Hurricane Blow (3 Ferocity). You can activate this exploit whenever you take the Attack action. The first time you hit a creature with a weapon attack this turn, the attack deals its normal effects, and you can push the target up to 10 feet away from you. No Escape (1+ Ferocity). At the start of your turn when your companion gains ferocity and doesn’t enter a rampage, you can spend up to your Wisdom modifier in ferocity (minimum 1; no action required). Until the start of your next turn, your speed or your companion’s speed (your choice) increases by 5 feet × the ferocity spent. Primal Pounce (3 Ferocity). When your companion hits a creature with their signature attack, you can use your reaction to command the companion to grapple the target. The target must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the companion grabs the target and the target is grappled (escape DC equal to your exploit save DC). The grapple also ends if your companion attacks a creature other than the target. Quick Hide (2 Ferocity). You can activate this exploit whenever you take the Attack action. The first time you hit a creature with a weapon attack this turn, your companion can take the Hide action as a reaction if they are able to hide. Thrash (4 Ferocity). When your companion hits a Large or smaller creature with a melee signature attack, you can use your reaction to command the companion to thrash the target from side to side, forcing them to make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target has disadvantage on attack rolls, and attack rolls against the target have advantage, until the start of your next turn. Primal Exploits: 10th Level You can take any of the following exploits when you gain new exploits at 10th and 17th levels. Crushing Charge (8 Ferocity). As an action, you move up to your speed in a straight line without provoking opportunity attacks. You can move through other creatures’ spaces, but must end your move in an unoccupied space. Each creature in a space you move through, except for your companion, must make a Strength saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 4d6 bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. When you reach 17th level, the damage increases to 5d6. Expanding Fury (6 Ferocity). When your companion uses a ferocity action that affects creatures within a specific distance from the companion, you can use your reaction to expand that distance by 10 feet. Furious Vengeance (5 Ferocity). When a creature hits you or your companion with a melee attack, you can use your reaction to deal 4d6 psychic damage to the attacker. When you reach 17th level, the damage increases to 5d6. Marked Prey (4 Ferocity). When your companion uses a ferocity action that requires a creature to make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the save. Primal Shout (6 Ferocity). As an action, you let loose a menacing bellow. Each creature of your choice that can hear you within 15 feet of you must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you until the end of your next turn. Wrath of the Pack (4 Ferocity). When you hit a creature with an attack and that creature is within 5 feet of your companion, you can have your companion make a signature attack against the creature (no action required). On a hit, the attack deals its normal effects, and the target is knocked prone. Primal Exploits: 17th Level You can take any of the following exploits when you gain new exploits at 17th level. Blood Sport (16 Ferocity). When you hit a Large or smaller creature with a melee weapon attack, you can also push the target up to 30 feet away from you and knock them prone (no action required). If the target ends this move within 5 feet of your companion, the companion can make a signature attack against the target. On a hit, the attack deals its normal effects, and the target is pushed up to 30 feet away from your companion. If the target ends this move within 5 feet of you, you can make a melee weapon attack against them (no action required) that deals an extra 4d6 damage if it hits. Break the Earth (14 Ferocity). As an action, you open a 10-foot-radius pit in the ground, floor, or other surface within 60 feet of you. The pit can be up to 50 feet deep, depending on the depth beneath the surface where it is opened. Each creature standing in the area when the pit opens must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature falls into the pit, taking 1d6 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet fallen and landing prone. On a success, the creature moves to an unoccupied space of their choice at the edge of the pit. A creature can climb the rough walls of the pit without an ability check. Bury the Dead (16 Ferocity). When you and your companion are within 5 feet of a creature, you can use an action to cause a vicious whirlwind filled with debris and dirt to rise around the creature, which must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes 8d6 bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and is restrained. On a success, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone or restrained. A creature restrained this way can use an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your exploit save DC, freeing themself on a success. Imbue Projectile (14 Ferocity). As an action, you make a ranged weapon attack. Whether or not the attack hits, a wave of energy explodes from the weapon or ammunition used in the attack, centered on your target. Each creature within 20 feet of the target (including the target and excluding your companion) must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d6 force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Rend (12 Ferocity). As an action, choose a creature you can see within 5 feet of you and your companion. You make a melee weapon attack against the target, and your companion makes a signature attack against the target (no actions required). If you both hit and deal damage to the target, the target is knocked prone and takes an additional 6d6 damage of a type dealt by either attack (your choice). Spirit Form (14 Ferocity). As a bonus action, you make you and your companion incorporeal until the end of your next turn. While incorporeal, you each have resistance to acid, cold, fire, lightning, and thunder damage, and to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. While incorporeal, you and your companion each gain a flying speed equal to your individual walking speed, and each of you can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. Either of you takes 5 (1d10) force damage if you end your turn inside an object. Improved Ferocity Also at 2nd level, whenever your companion uses a ferocity action that requires a creature to make an ability check or saving throw, the companion can use your primal exploit save DC in place of the normal DC. Companion Bond At 3rd level, you choose a specialized bond that you share with your companion. Choose Ferocious Bond, Hunter Bond, Infernal Bond, Primordial Bond, or Protector Bond (all detailed below). Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 11th, and 15th level. Master Caregiver Also at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in the Animal Handling skill. If you already have proficiency in Animal Handling, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make with the skill. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Beyond Instinct At 5th level, thanks to your care, your companion’s tenacity and versatility grow. You and your companion gain the following benefits: Whenever your companion gains ferocity at the start of your turn, they gain an additional 1 ferocity. Your companion gains proficiency in saving throws with one ability score of your choice. Your companion gains proficiency in one of the following skills of your choice: Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Performance, Sleight of Hand, Stealth, or Survival. Your companion can use Wisdom in place of Intelligence when they make an ability check using the Investigation skill, and they can use Strength or Dexterity in place of Charisma when they make an ability check using the Intimidation or Performance skill. When you reach 10th level in this class, the additional ferocity your companion gains increases to 3. Your companion gains proficiency in another saving throw of your choice, and gains proficiency in another skill from the list above. When you reach 15th level in this class, the additional ferocity your companion gains increases to 5. Your companion gains proficiency in another saving throw of your choice, and gains proficiency in another skill from the list above. Improved Signature Attack At 5th level, when your companion hits with their signature attack, the attack deals one additional weapon damage die. This increases to two additional weapon damage dice at 11th level and three additional dice at 17th level. Additionally, damage dealt by your companion’s attacks and ferocity actions counts as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage. Faithful Companion At 6th level, your supernatural connection to your companion grows, allowing you to coordinate faster and to work better as a team with all your allies. You no longer need to use your bonus action to command your companion. Instead, as long as you are not incapacitated, you can direct them to take an action simply with verbal or physical signs that require no action. Additionally, when your companion enters a rampage when you are not incapacitated and they can see or hear you, they do not automatically move toward and attack the nearest creature. You instead choose where the companion moves on your turn and which creature they attack with their signature attack. Rejuvenating Ferocity Also at 6th level, your companion can draw on their own fury to revitalize themself during a battle. You can use a bonus action to spend any amount of your companion’s ferocity, with the companion regaining hit points equal to the ferocity spent. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum once), regaining all uses when you finish a long rest. Primal Strike At 8th level, you gain the ability to infuse your weapon strikes with primal energy. Once on each of your turns when you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can cause the attack to deal an extra 1d8 damage to the target. The damage type is determined by you when you gain this feature, and is chosen from the following list: acid, cold, fire, poison, lightning, or thunder. Each time you gain a level in this class, you can change the damage type for this feature to another type from the list. When you reach 14th level, the extra damage increases to 2d8. Mystic Connection At 9th level, your connection to your companion grants a natural talent. The benefit of your Mystic Connection depends on your companion. If you ever gain a new companion, your new companion’s Mystic Connection benefit replaces the old one. Basilisk. As a bonus action, you cover your skin in a flexible layer of stone that lasts for 10 minutes. While coated in stone, you have resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a long rest. Blood Hawk. As a bonus action, you gain a flying speed equal to your walking speed for 1 hour. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a long rest. Bulette. As a bonus action, you gain a burrowing speed equal to your walking speed for 10 minutes. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a short or long rest. Deinonychus. You can take the Hide action as a bonus action. You can use this benefit a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum once), regaining all uses when you finish a long rest. Dragon Wyrmling. As a bonus action, you imbue a weapon you hold with draconic power for 10 minutes. While this power is in effect, attacks made using the weapon deal an extra 1d10 damage of the type associated with your wyrmling’s Draconic Lineage trait. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a long rest. Earth Elemental. As a bonus action, you transform your body into dirt and stone for 10 minutes. While in this form, you can walk through nonmagical objects made of earth and stone. If you end your turn inside an object, you take 1d10 force damage and are shunted back to the space from which you entered the object. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a long rest. Gelatinous Cube. Your body becomes flexible and gelatinous. As an action or bonus action, you absorb a Tiny object you hold into your body, so no one else can access it. As an action or bonus action, you can then excrete an absorbed object into one of your empty hands or have it fall at your feet. You can absorb up to four objects at a time. Any absorbed objects fall out of your body when you die. Additionally, when another creature within 5 feet of you hits you with a melee attack, you can use a reaction to deal 3d6 acid damage to the attacker. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a short or long rest. Giant Spider. You gain a secondary sense that warns you of danger. You have advantage on initiative rolls, and you can’t be surprised while you are not incapacitated. Giant Toad. You can hold your breath for 1 hour, and you gain a swimming speed equal to your walking speed. In addition, you can make a long jump or a high jump as if you had a running start even when you don’t. Giant Weasel. As a bonus action, you cause your teeth to become pointed weasel teeth for 1 minute, allowing you to make bite attacks against targets within 5 feet of you as a bonus action. This is a natural weapon attack that deals 1d10 piercing damage, and which can use your Strength or Dexterity modifier for its attack and damage rolls. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a long rest. Hell Hound. As a bonus action, you shroud yourself in hellfire for 10 minutes. While you are shrouded in this way, any creature within 5 feet of that hits you with a melee attack or that touches you for the first time on a turn takes 2d6 fire damage. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a long rest. Mimic. As a bonus action, you touch a Small or smaller nonmagical object and polymorph it into any other nonmagical object of the same general size and weight, and whose value cannot exceed the value of the original object. The object remains polymorphed for 1 hour. If you move more than 30 feet away from the object, the polymorph ends early, or you can choose to end it early as an action. Using any material polymorphed in this way as a spell’s material component causes that spell to fail. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a short or long rest. Owlbear. As an action, you let loose an inspiring hoot. Each creature of your choice within 30 feet of you that can hear you gains temporary hit points equal to your character level. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a long rest. Sporeling. When you hit another creature with a weapon attack, you infuse the attack with special spores that impose disadvantage on the target’s attack rolls until the end of their next turn. You can’t use this benefit again until you finish a short or long rest. Worg. Your walking speed increases by 10 feet. Loyal to the End At 13th level, even harmful magic can’t shake you and your companion’s loyalty to each other and your friends. You and your companion can’t be charmed or frightened. Keen Senses At 14th level, your senses sharpen, becoming akin to those of a fearsome predator. You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing, sight, or smell. Additionally, you can take the Search action as a bonus action. Summon the Wilds At 18th level, you can call forth nearby creatures as a distracting swarm. Depending on your location, this horde could consist of birds, fish, insects, rodents, or other similar creatures of your choice. As an action, you call out to the creatures, which arrive immediately and occupy a 30-foot cube centered on a point within 120 feet of you that you can see. The swarm persists for 1 minute. On each of your turns, you can use a bonus action to move the swarm up to 30 feet in any direction. Each creature of your choice that starts their turn in the swarm’s area must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against your exploit save DC or have disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws, and a −5 penalty to their passive Wisdom (Perception) score, until the start of their next turn. You can’t use this feature again until you finish a short or long rest. Unbreakable Friendship At 20th level, your affection and friendship for your companion infuses the creature with primal energy, making them a paragon of their kind. While you have at least 1 hit point and your companion can see or hear you, you and your companion gain the following benefits: You automatically succeed on Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks made to prevent your companion from entering a rampage. (You can choose to not make the check if you wish to have your companion enter a rampage on purpose.) If your companion is reduced to 0 hit points but not killed outright, they drop to 1 hit point instead. Whenever you roll initiative, your companion gains 1d10 ferocity. Companion Bonds While every beastheart and companion share a special bond, the friendship between these partners can be rooted in many different aspects of the wild world. A companion bond represents this specific connection and shared power. Some beasthearts and companions live to unleash their inner fury, while others embrace the silence of the hunt. Another duo might bond over their need to protect nature or their pack, while a different beastheart might use their companion’s rage to harness the powers of Hell. Ferocious Bond Hunter Bond Infernal Bond Primordial Bond Protector Bond

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: The Beastheart and Monstrous Companions

