# Blood Mage

**description**: A hooked nose drips with a crimson sheen in the moonlight. A slit, carved into greyish-green mottled skin. Channelling his magic through his blood, the goblin twists and forms a jagged blade from his bleeding wound, smiling wide with his red, stained sharp teeth. Arms and eyes deadlocked toward an injured ally locked in combat with a competent foe. an elf begins channeling blood out of the pores in his dark calloused skin, groaning with pain, visible on his stern face. The blood flows to his companion and heals their wound, encouraging them to fight on. A long-clawed hand hovers over a gash to an ally’s arm, drawing out their blood and twisting it round their body to their other hand, melding it with a fireball to produce a Vermillion flame. The scaled arms drawback and launch the flame at a group of bandits. The resultant fire burns not only their bodies but their very life essence as well. Within In Their Veins As a Blood Mage, your power comes from not only the arcane that is intrinsically woven into the world around you but also from a vast well of energy within yourself and others. Most Blood Mages are met with scorn from outside observers but to those who study these 'Forbidden Arts' there is something liberating to be found. It can be a tool of harm and health, wielded to the content of the weaver, many use these arts for personal gain and power but there are legends of those who have rejected this trope and carved a niche as expert healers. For what better way to treat an ailment than to affect the very thing that it targets? An Alternate Power Not all mages have a natural aptitude towards the arcane in the normal, socially accepted sense. Some of those who struggle look for other ways to increase their magical prowess, often, turning to darker more forbidden arts in a bid to become the spell caster they wish to be. Of those mages, a rare few find the arcane power that lies inert within the life essence contain in blood. Desperate to continue their life as a mage, this power soon takes deep roots within them as they expand upon their newly awakened magical abilities. The only downside those who use blood magic seem to find, is that they are ill suited to fighting undead, and as such, they tend to steer clear of crypts, and tombs, preferring to stay near fresher sources of blood such as towns or cities, though they tend to not use their blood magic openly in these areas, as most people consider it an evil practice, or taboo at the least. The Blood Mage Spell Slots per Spell Level Level Proficiency Bonus Features Cantrips Known Spells Known 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 1st +2 Arcane Blood Mass, Blood Focus, Blood Focus Feature 3 2 2 - - - - - - - - 2nd +2 Blood Analysis 3 3 3 - - - - - - - - 3rd +2 Blood Focus Feature 3 4 4 2 - - - - - - - 4th +2 Ability Score Increase 4 5 4 3 - - - - - - - 5th +3 Thicker Than Water 4 6 4 3 2 - - - - - - 6th +3 Blood Drain 4 7 4 3 3 - - - - - - 7th +3 Blood Focus Feature 4 8 4 3 3 1 - - - - - 8th +3 Ability Score Increase 4 9 4 3 3 2 - - - - 9th +4 —— 4 10 4 3 3 3 1 - - - - 10th +4 Blood Pack 5 11 4 3 3 3 2 - - - - 11th +4 —— 5 12 4 3 3 3 2 1 - - - 12th +4 Ability Score Increase 5 12 4 3 3 3 2 1 - - - 13th +5 —— 5 13 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 - - 14th +5 Blood Focus Feature 5 13 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 - - 15th +5 —— 5 14 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 – 16th +5 Ability Score Increase 5 14 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 – 17th +6 —— 5 15 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 1 18th +6 Blood Focus Feature 5 15 4 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 19th +6 Ability Score Increase 5 15 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 1 20th +6 Bloody Resilience 5 15 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 1 Class Features As a blood mage, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per Blood Mage level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 + Constitution modifier per Blood Mage level after 1st Proficiencies Armour: Light armour Weapons: Daggers, Darts, Slings, Quarterstaffs, Light Crossbows Saving Throws: Constitution and one other of your choice Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, History, Medicine, Nature or Religion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: a Quarterstaff (b) a Dagger Explorer's Pack or (b) Scholar's Pack Two Empty Vials A Spellbook Spellcasting The mysteries of Blood Magic are as incredible as they are terrifying. They allow a person to access overwhelming power at a terrible cost. As a purveyor of these sacrosanct arts, you focus on the ability to augment spells through the life energy of blood, or the ability to control and manipulate a creature’s blood. Cantrips At 1st level, you know three cantrips of your choice from the Blood Mage's spell list. You learn additional Blood Mage cantrips at higher levels, as shown in the Cantrips Known column of the Blood Mage table. Spell Slots The Blood Mage table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these Blood Mage spells, you must expend a slot of the spells level or higher. You regain all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest. Spells Known Of 1st Level And Higher Spells Known of 1st Level and Higher You know two 1st-level spells of your choice from the blood mage's spell list. The Spells Known Column of the blood mage table shows when you learn more blood mage spells of your choice. Each of these spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the blood mage spells you know and replace it with another spell from the blood mage spell list, which also must be of a level for which you have spell slots. Also, whenever you gain a level in this class, you can choose to lower your max HP by 1d8 to learn an additional blood mage spell every level. Spells obtained in this way do not count against your spells known and cannot be replaced." Spellcasting Ability Constitution is your spellcasting ability for your blood mage spells. You use your Constitution whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Constitution modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a blood mage spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one. Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier Spellcasting Focus A Blood Mage uses their own blood as the focus for their spells, as such, the blood mage creates an orb of blood that hovers around their body, known as an Arcane Blood Mass. Arcane Blood Mass 1st Level Feature As a bonus action you can reduce your current hit points and your hit point maximum by a number up to your blood mage level, to siphon blood out of your body, which then floats around you to become your Arcane Blood Mass, the arcane focus needed for Blood Mage exclusive Cantrips & Spells. You can only do this if the reduction does not exceed your current hit points. The reduction lasts until you dismiss it as a bonus action or if you finish a short or long rest causing the mass to return to your body. If you dismiss the Mass, you regain its current HP and HP Maximum. If you fall to 0 HP whilst your Arcane Blood Mass is active, it returns to you immediately and you regain its HP, and HP Maximum. This effect also occurs if your HP Maximum falls to 0. Any damage dealt to you, that would reduce your HP or HP Maximum to below 0, is carried over after your Arcane Blood Mass returns to you. The Arcane Blood Mass can be targeted for attacks. It has an AC of 10, and its HP/HP maximum is equal to the number put into it during its creation. It has immunity to piercing damage and resistance to necrotic damage. Blood Focus 1st Level Feature You must now choose a focus for your blood magic progression. There are three Blood Mage variants detailed at the end of the class description; the Haemomancer, the Sacrificial Preserver, and the Sanguine Supplementer. Blood Analysis 2nd Level Feature You can perform a 1-minute magic ritual on a sample of blood, reading the necromantic energy trapped in blood like a book so as to learn more about the creature it belonged to. In doing so you learn the creature's type (i.e., dragon, aberration, humanoid etc.), age, sex, if it was afflicted by any maladies at the time of blood loss, and how old the blood sample itself is. If you analyse two different blood samples, you are able to tell if they belong to the same creature and when and where you have analysed the blood of the creature before. Ability Score Increase When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Thicker Than Water 5th Level Feature You have become accustomed to recovering from damage. You regain an additional 1d4 hit points for every hit die you spend at the end of a short rest. Additionally, your blood magic has become more potent, as such, blood mage spells that use your own blood are able to overcome bludgeoning, slashing, piercing, and necrotic resistances but not immunities." Blood Drain 6th Level Feature You learn the 3rd level spell Blood Drain, and can cast it twice per day without expending a spell slot. Additionally, whenever you use a spell that takes a creatures blood, you can learn a single fragment of information about that creature as if you had used the Blood Analysis feature. You choose which piece of information to learn: the creature's type, age, sex or if it is afflicted by any maladies. Blood Drain 3rd Level Necromancy Casting Time: 1 Action Range: 30 feet Target: One creature you can see within range Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous Classes: Blood Mage You attempt to drain the blood out of a creature within range. If the target is not willing, then they must make a constitution saving throw against your spell save DC, taking 2d6 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the target is willing, they take full damage. When this spell damages a creature, the caster chooses one of the following effects: Gain HP equal to the damage the target took. As a free action, you can use the blood drained from the target to cast a Blood Mage spell, equal to or lower than the level you cast this spell. The damage taken by the target of this spell(Blood Drain) is used for any HP requirements of other spells cast using this effect, if additional HP is required on top of this, it is provided by the caster as normal. This effect cannot be used to cast Blood Drain. The drained blood morphs into a weapon of your choice. It deals necrotic damage equal to half the damage dealt with this spell + your intelligence modifier, has the properties of your chosen weapon, counts as magical, and lasts for 1 minute before turning into dust and disappearing. This spell has no effect on creatures without blood, such as Constructs, Certain Undead (ask your DM) or Machines. This spell requires an Arcane Blood Mass to cast. At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage dealt increases by 1d6 for each level above 3rd. Blood Pack 10th Level Feature You can now stockpile extra blood inside special vials known to blood mages as packs. These blood packs can store blood with hit points up to twice your blood mage level. If a feature or spell requires you to sacrifice HP you can use the HP from your blood packs instead. As a blood mage, you may also use these packs to heal yourself during combat, though to do so costs both your action and bonus action. You must have an empty pack vial to create a blood pack. Blood packs may only be created during a long or short rest. One blood pack holds approximately 1 pint of blood, when empty, they weigh 0.2 lb, when full they weigh 1.3lb. Bloody Resilience 20th Level Feature Your mastery of blood magic has enabled you to constantly interweave arcane forces with your own life essence, allowing you to rapidly heal wounds and clean your body of toxins, as such you gain the following benefits: You are immune to all Diseases as well as Poisons and Toxins (Poison Damage) You learn the Regenerate spell if you do not know it. You can now cast it on yourself as an action, using thought.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Haigo Dungeoncrafts

**book**: The Blood Mage

