# Bloodspeaker

**description**: Distinct among the many heretical mages, blood sorcerers, and vile arcanists of Rokugan, Bloodspeakers are trained in the forbidden arts created by Iuchiban himself. After Iuchiban opened two Black Scrolls during the sixth century and plundered the vile knowledge within to unleash a horde of undead upon Rokugan, he used the Bloodspeakers to both command his armies and infiltrate society’s highest ranks, nearly destabilizing the Emerald Empire in the process. When this insurrection was thwarted, the Bloodspeaker cults scattered. Most Bloodspeakers train within a cult that has passed down Iuchiban’s evil lore for generations. Compared to other blood sorcerers’ methods, the Words of Power wielded by Bloodspeakers, called malefic words, allow them to better hide the unholy power upon which they draw and resist the temptation to give themselves over fully to Fu Leng. Bloodspeakers deal with and control corrupted spirits and undead beings, similar to the blood magic practitioners who serve Fu Leng. However, the Bloodspeakers’ art lets them avoid becoming one of the Lost or otherwise suffering the corruption of the Shadowlands. It does this primarily by siphoning any corruption off into the land or into other creatures. The fact that Bloodspeakers use true names to command evil spirits without needing to use their own blood as an offering also helps them avoid Shadowlands corruption. Iuchiban himself learned such techniques, as well as methods for summoning and controlling the undead. Bloodspeakers typically join a cult to learn these arts, but some learn them from corrupted spirits or by reading forbidden texts. Class Features As a Bloodspeaker, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per Bloodspeaker level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per Bloodspeaker level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Simple weapons Tools: Divination kit (see Adventures in Rokugan ) Saving Throws: Intelligence Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Athletics, Deception, History, Intimidation, Investigation, Religion, Sleight of Hand, Stealth, Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted to you by your background: (a) resplendent regalia or (b) traveling clothes or (c) silk armor (a) dagger or (b) hatchet or (c) staff Divination kit Table 1-1: The Bloodspeaker Level Proficiency Bonus Features Words of Power Vitality Maximum 1st +2 Bloodspeaker's Cant, Malefic Words of Power, Vitality 2 3 2nd +2 Bloodspeaker Archetype, Interrogate Dead 2 4 3rd +2 Bloodspeaker Archetype Feature 2 4 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 5 5th +3 Whispers Turned to Weapons 3 5 6th +3 Bloodspeaker Archetype Feature 3 6 7th +3 Manifestation of Blood 4 6 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 7 9th +4 Blade of Blood 4 7 10th +4 Bloodbound Familiar 5 8 11th +4 Bloodspeaker Archetype Feature 5 8 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 5 9 13th +5 Bloodspeaker Archetype Feature 6 9 14th +5 Vile Curse 6 10 15th +5 Fiend’s Retreat 6 10 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 7 11 17th +6 Bloodspeaker Archetype Feature 7 11 18th +6 — 8 12 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 8 12 20th +6 Soul Transfer 8 13 Bloodspeaker’s Cant At 1st level, you learn means of communicating with the undead. Over the course of an hour, you can use a scrap of paper or other writing surface and a few drops of blood to create a glyph called the Bloodspeaker’s Sigil that allows the bearer to communicate with the fallen. While holding a Bloodspeaker’s Sigil, a creature can understand and be understood by undead and Lost creatures even if they do not speak the same language. Additionally, a Bloodspeaker’s Sigil grants the bearer advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks they make targeting undead. This benefit applies only if the undead creature is not under the control of anyone else, and only if it is not already hostile to the character. Malefic Words of Power As a student of forbidden occult arts, you have learned to speak malefic words of power, also known simply as malefic words, commanding malicious concepts into being to create abominations and devastate your foes. At 1st level, you know 2 malefic words from the list in Malefic Words of Power List. The number of malefic words you know increases at certain Bloodspeaker levels, as shown in the Malefic Words of Power column of Table 1–1: The Bloodspeaker. Save DC and Attack Modifier You use your Intelligence whenever a malefic word or other Bloodspeaker class feature refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a Bloodspeaker malefic word or spell you cast and when making an attack roll using a malefic word or spell. Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Vitality Many malefic words require you to expend a unique Bloodspeaker resource called vitality to use them. Starting at 1st level, you possess an amount of vitality determined by your Bloodspeaker level, as indicated in the Vitality Maximum column of Table 1–1: The Bloodspeaker. You recover all expended vitality when you finish a long rest. If a malefic word or another class feature requires you to expend vitality and you cannot expend the full cost, you are subjected to the effects listed under its Feedback section. Bloodspeaker Archetype When you reach 2nd level, you choose an archetype that lets you specialize further in your occult pursuits. Choose Summoner or Executioner, detailed at the end of this class description. Your choice grants you features at 2nd level and again at 3rd, 6th, 13th, and 17th level. Interrogate Dead At 2nd level, as an action, you can summon the soul of a humanoid corpse within 10 feet of you. The creature must have been alive within the last 24 hours and cannot be undead. The soul is imprisoned within its corpse; it can perceive its surroundings and speak (assuming the corpse still has a mouth) but cannot move in any other way. If you question the soul and it wants to resist answering you, it must make a successful Charisma saving throw, with a DC equal to your spell save DC. If it fails, it must answer your question truthfully and has disadvantage on the next Charisma saving throw it makes to resist answering you. If it succeeds, the soul breaks free of your shackles and disappears. You can free the soul as an action, otherwise the soul is freed after 24 hours. Once you use this feature, you cannot use it again until you finish a long rest. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. You can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Whispers Turned to Weapons At 5th level, when you use your action to cast a malefic word on a creature, you can make one melee weapon attack targeting that creature as a bonus action. Manifestation of Blood At 7th level, you have twisted your own vital essence, allowing you to unleash flurries of devastating blows in the blink of an eye. When you take the Attack action on your turn you may spend 1 vitality to make one additional attack. Blade of Blood At 9th level, as an action, you can spend 3 vitality to coat a melee weapon with cursed blood. A creature wielding this weapon gains a bonus to its attack and damage rolls equal to your proficiency bonus while attacking creatures that are bleeding or are affected by one of your baleful echoes. When you use this feature, any weapons previously enhanced by this feature lose their enhancement. Bloodbound Familiar At 10th level, you bind a malicious spirit to you by using vitality to sculpt a mortal form for it to inhabit. You can summon your bloodbound familiar by spending an action and 1 vitality. When summoned, the familiar appears within 5 feet of you, taking your choice of the form of a plague vermin, blood bat, or mutant leech. All three forms use the bloodbound familiar fare, with one of the three listed special rules depending on its form. On your turn, you may use a bonus action to have your bloodbound familiar move up to its speed and take one action. Your familiar is instantly destroyed if it is more than 60 feet away from you. If it is destroyed, you can resummon it after a short rest. Bloodbound Familiar (PB 2) Bloodbound Familiar (PB 3) Bloodbound Familiar (PB 4) Bloodbound Familiar (PB 5) Bloodbound Familiar (PB 6) Vile Curse At 14th level, your sorcery reverberates with an unholy force. Once per turn, after you resolve the effects of a baleful echo, you expend 1 vitality to resolve the effects of the baleful echo again against the same target. Fiend’s Retreat At 15th level, you know that death is just a few short breaths behind you at all times, and you have prepared sorcerous trickery to avoid its footfalls. When you would be hit by an attack, you can use your reaction to instantly swap positions with a creature you can perceive within 60 feet of you (you teleport to its position, and it simultaneously teleports to your position). The creature is hit by the attack, then gains the disoriented (it can’t make opportunity attacks) and marked for death (your next successful melee attack against it deals an additional 1d8 force damage) conditions for 1 minute. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest. Soul Transfer At 20th level, you may spend 8 hours performing a ritual to transfer your soul into the body of another living humanoid creature. Once the ritual begins, the target of this feature must remain within 30 feet of you for the duration of the ritual, or the ritual fails. Until the ritual is completed, you must remain in a state of intense concentration. If you take damage, cast any spells, or stop for any reason, you immediately take 20d6 psychic damage and the ritual fails. Completing the ritual forcibly expels the target’s soul, instantly killing them. Your soul then leaves its current body to permanently inhabit the body of the target. You retain all of your previous knowledge, skills, and abilities, but your age, Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution ability scores permanently change to those of the target. While you do not gain access to the target’s memories, this technique creates a perfect disguise that all but the most shrewd and suspicious investigators are unable to see past. Once you use this feature, whether it is successful or fails, you can’t use it again until at least 30 days have passed. Subclasses Summoner Executioner Words of Power and Malefic Words Malefic Words of Power are a major part of the secret knowledge that makes the Bloodspeakers the most feared practitioners of heretical sorcery. Like a True Name, each Word of Power calls to the essence of a thing. However, instead of drawing upon the power of a spiritual entity, each Word of Power manifests some abstract concept upon the world. Though Words of Power can be good or evil depending on their nature, the malefic words known to the Bloodspeakers all speak wickedness into being. Centuries ago, the first Bloodspeaker cults were taught these Words of Power by Iuchiban in exchange for their fealty, or as reward for horrific deeds carried out in his name. Today, most surviving Bloodspeaker cults possess only a few of these terrifying malefic words, and their schemes and machinations often center around seizing this ancient knowledge from rival sects. As such, an individual Bloodspeaker is unlikely to master all of the malefic words once known to Iuchiban, and any opposing Bloodspeaker might well possess strange, unexpected abilities that even a practitioner of these heretical arts is unprepared to overcome. Unlike invocations in Adventures in Rokugan , malefic words function as spells as described in the SRD. The Malefic Words of Power beginning on page 21 can be learned only by Bloodspeakers trained in the secret ways of Iuchiban, and they do not use spell slots. They can be cast at will, and their spell level is considered to be equal to the caster’s proficiency bonus for the purposes of effects that refer to spell level. Each malefic word has an effect that is resolved when it is cast, a baleful echo that continues to afflict some creature after it is cast so long as its vitality cost is paid, and a feedback result that the Bloodspeaker suffers if they fail to pay that vitality cost. For mechanical compatibility, malefic words have been assigned to schools of magic described within the SRD. However, these terms are not generally used by Bloodspeakers, who instead categorize these abilities by the historical lineage of the cults that preserved them across the centuries. Effects, Baleful Echoes, Upkeep, and Feedback Once spoken, a malefic word has an immediate effect upon its target unless they succeed on a saving throw, as detailed in the malefic word’s profile. Each profile also describes the malefic word’s baleful echo. A baleful echo afflicts its target with an ongoing consequence and exacts a vitality cost, called the upkeep, from the Bloodspeaker. The upkeep, which is specified in parentheses in the baleful echo’s description, must be paid at the start of each of the Bloodspeaker’s turns after they use the malefic word (or once every 10 minutes in narrative time). While a malefic word’s baleful echo is ongoing, the Bloodspeaker cannot use that malefic word again. The Bloodspeaker must continue expending this upkeep cost each turn until they silence the baleful echo or run out of vitality, triggering dangerous feedback that assails their own body (as listed in the malefic word’s Feedback entry). When a creature afflicted by a baleful echo is reduced to 0 hit points or dies, that baleful echo ends. A Bloodspeaker can use an action to silence baleful echoes initiated by their malefic words, ending a number of baleful echoes up to their proficiency bonus. Silencing a baleful echo removes its ongoing consequence from any afflicted creatures and stops its upkeep cost. It also does not trigger the malefic word’s feedback. A Bloodspeaker can silence any number of baleful echoes at the end of an encounter as a bonus action. If a Bloodspeaker hasn’t silenced the baleful echoes they have created and does not have enough vitality to expend the total upkeep cost, they must choose a number of echoes to end that will allow them to expend the upkeep cost for the remaining echoes. Since the Bloodspeaker is ending these echoes without using an action to silence them, the Bloodspeaker suffers the feedback results listed for each echo they are ending. Selection of Malefic Words The following are the selection of malefic words that a Bloodspeaker may select from as long as they meet the prerequisites. Confuse Debilitate Devour Dominion Dread Fester Forbiddance Hatred Mortality Scald Seethe Vengeance Multiclassing At the GM’s discretion, Bloodspeaker characters can use the multiclassing rules found in the SRD and Adventures in Rokugan . However, Bloodspeaker traditions are profane, and thus most spirits of the natural world or the Celestial Heavens do not deign to answer the invocations of Bloodspeakers. If a character has levels in the ritualist class and wishes to become a Bloodspeaker, it is recommended that they speak with their GM and remake their character as a Bloodspeaker of the same level with appropriate selections to reflect their history as a ritualist. While there is no mechanical reason a multiclass between these two classes could not work, and GMs may allow it at their discretion, it runs counter to the cosmology of Adventures in Rokugan . Characters of any other class may multiclass into the Bloodspeaker class provided they have access to the appropriate forbidden knowledge, which usually requires joining a Bloodspeaker cult (or seizing the information by raiding a cult’s library of profane texts). Additionally, the following information is important for multiclassing into the Bloodspeaker class. Multiclass Proficiencies Gained. When a character multiclasses into Bloodspeaker, they gain the following proficiencies: light armor, simple weapons, divination kit. Class Features. Some features of the Bloodspeaker class interact in specific ways with other class features, as described below. Manifestation of Blood and Extra Attack If a character uses the Manifestation of Blood feature and has the Extra Attack feature (such as from the bushi or duelist in Adventures in Rokugan ), the total number of attacks they can make as part of a single Attack action is equal to the higher number of attacks that would be granted to them by one of these features, not the combined value. In other words, if a character spends 1 vitality for 1 additional attack and has the Extra Attacks (2) feature, they can attack 2 times (1 + 1 base attack), not 4 times.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Tomb of Iuchiban

