# Bushi

**description**: Many members of the samurai class of Rokugan are trained from birth in the arts of combat, tactics, and command. Commoners usually become bushi by circumstance, having been levied into service in wartime or trained by experience fighting marauders and wild creatures that threaten their home. A bushi might serve in a variety of roles over the course of their life: as a front-line combatant in the clan’s armies, a field commander, a guard captain at a castle or fortification, or an instructor to the next generation. Clan Traditions Each samurai clan of Rokugan has unique traditions for its bushi, passed down through the generations or developed to combat the unique challenges it faces. Crab Clan Traditions. Of the Great Clans of Rokugan, only the Crab Clan exists in a state of constant war, protecting the Emerald Empire against the ever-present threat of the otherworldly monsters that spill forth from the Shadowlands. As such, the Crab Clan teaches its disciples fortitude, courage, and practicality in equal measure. Horrors, demons, and the unliving are merciless foes, and bushi of the Crab Clan can’t afford to behave as though the fight against these creatures is going to be fair or chivalrous. Bushi trained in the Hida Defender tradition wear heavily plated armor and practice techniques for shattering iron hides with mighty hammer blows, while Hiruma Scouts are trained to observe and get out, only striking when the reward exceeds the risk. They are masters of survival and mobility, and use traps, ambushes, and poisons to even the odds against inhuman monstrosities. The Kaiu dōjō is not only a warrior college, but also the foremost engineering school in the Empire. Its engineers support the foot soldiers of the Crab by building bridges over inhospitable terrain, crafting armor strong enough to withstand even an oni’s blow, and designing and operating crossbows, ballistae, and other deadly war machines that let mere mortals triumph over massive foes. Even the Crab Clan’s secretive priests, the Kuni Purifiers, often train in warrior arts alongside their ritualist training, wielding blades alongside powerful invocations as they hunt down and scourge evil wherever it festers. The Crab Clan also uses peasant levies in battle far more regularly than other clans, and many villagers along the Kaiu Wall have been called to hold a spear in rank or aim a crossbow from atop the wall during times of crisis. Crane Clan Traditions. The Crane Clan’s diplomats generally prefer to avert war than fight it, but this does not mean its bushi are any less dedicated to mastery of battle than those of the other clans. The bushi from the Daidoji Iron Warrior dōjō form the core of their clan’s small standing army. They are highly trained heavy infantry who can hold the line and delay the advance of any foe. Many enemies have broken on the unwavering spears and iron discipline of the Daidoji Iron Warriors. When there are no wars for the Crane Clan to fight, many are assigned as protectors of Crane castles or as bodyguards to traveling Crane courtiers. Dragon Clan Traditions. The Dragon Clan almost never marches to war, and invasions of its lands have been even more infrequent across the centuries. Any protracted strike on the Dragon Clan’s mountainous domain has invariably stagnated into a brutal campaign of guerilla warfare, with its deadly Mirumoto-trained swordmasters harrying scouts or trapping their foes in narrow mountain passes to gain the edge against superior numbers. The Agasha family’s warrior-mystics are also deadly, as capable in hand-to-hand combat as they are at invoking the power of mountain spirits to collapse upon their foes. When acting outside of its own domain, the Dragon Clan’s bushi tend to be elite infantry who strike hard and fast to secure their objectives, withdrawing before the enemy responds in force. Lion Clan Traditions. The Lion Clan’s original mandate was in the creation of an empire, and it is still the primary protector of Rokugan against military threats foreign and internal to this day. The Akodo War College trains the finest strategic thinkers in the Emerald Empire, and members of other clans often study there. Its curriculum is focused on control: of one’s weapons, of the battlefield, over the flow of conflict, and ultimately, over oneself. Their goal is to achieve the pinnacle of the art of war: to minimize losses while achieving their objectives. On the other hand, the Matsu family trains the bushi who serve as the main strength of the Lion armies. The Matsu family dōjō teaches the primacy of offense and the necessity of seizing the initiative in all things. Phoenix Clan Traditions. The Isawa family’s authority is derived from spiritual knowledge rather than martial prowess, and their ritualists rarely take the battlefield. Therefore, in both wartime and peacetime, the Shiba family takes the lead on such matters. As Shiba swore to protect Isawa, so the Shiba Guardian School emphasizes the defense of and cooperation with the Isawa; its members complement and protect ritualists. The Shiba Guardians are broadly trained, often as much scholars and peacemakers as warriors. Scorpion Clan Traditions. The Scorpion Clan projects military power in traditional ways, and some among the Bayushi family are trained as commanders and warriors in addition to their education as courtiers and magistrates. Perhaps the finest bushi of the Scorpion Clan are the warrior monks of the Yogo Penitent sect, renowned for their use of the halberd and cold calm in battle. However, the Scorpion Clan’s most noteworthy military assets are its clandestine ones. Unicorn Clan Traditions. The core of the Unicorn military, the Shinjo Outrider tradition emphasizes speed and flexibility. All Shinjo Outriders learn the art of reconnaissance and how to get the most out of their horses. Their preferred weapon is the Shinjo horsebow, which they use with great accuracy even while riding at a gallop. In Unicorn battle plans, they are often the bait in a feigned retreat. The Moto tradition’s heavy cavalry serves as the hammer in these strategies, coupling speed with power to close the trap on enemy forces. To break the most difficult formations or hold the most desperate defenses, the Unicorn Clan deploys its most elite heavy cavalry, the Utaku Battle Maidens. The Utaku dōjō only accepts students who meet stringent standards of prowess and integrity, including taming a sacred Utaku steed. Field Training Many of the line troops in the Great Clans’ armies are commoners—levies from local communities, or volunteers seeking their chance at wealth or glory. Unlike the members of Rokugan’s formal warrior caste, the samurai, some of these characters might behave more like soldiers who serve vocationally. Nonetheless, the bushi class could be used to create a battle-weary campaigner who just wants to return to their home village, a fresh-faced youth who has not yet seen the harsh realities of warfare that await them, or a farmer whose skills have been developed protecting their village from wild animals and marauders. Bandits, town guards, criminal toughs, nameless wayfarers, champions from far-flung lands—any of these could also be represented by the bushi class. Quick Builds Generally, make either your Strength or Dexterity your highest ability score, focusing secondarily on Constitution. If you intend to choose the Vanguard archetype, Charisma can also be helpful. Several iconic bushi of Rokugan can be found in the more detailed quick builds provided in the Backgrounds section, such as the Hida Defender, Daidoji Iron Warrior, and Moto Ranger. Table 2-1: The Bushi Level Proficiency Bonus Features Focus Maximum Martial Techniques 1st +2 Focus Points, Martial Techniques 4 1 2nd +2 Combat Stance, Sudden Clarity 4 2 3rd +2 Bushi Archetype 4 2 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5 2 5th +3 Extra Attack, Bushi Archetype Feature 5 3 6th +3 Veteran's Instincts 5 3 7th +3 Bushi Archetype Feature 6 3 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 6 3 9th +4 Sudden Clarity (Improved) 6 4 10th +4 Bushi Archetype Feature, Additional Combat Stance 7 4 11th +4 Extra Attack (2) 7 5 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 7 5 13th +5 Bushi Archetype Feature 8 5 14th +5 Ability Score Improvement 8 5 15th +5 Veteran's Instincts (Two Uses) 8 6 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 9 6 17th +6 Sudden Clarity (Improved) 9 6 18th +6 Bushi Archetype Feature 9 7 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 9 7 20th +6 Extra Attack (3) 10 8 Class Features As a bushi, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d12 per bushi level Hit Points at 1st Level: 12 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d12 (or 7) + your Constitution modifier per bushi level after the 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light and medium armor Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Constitution, Wisdom Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Athletics, History, Intimidation, Medicine, Nature, Persuasion, and Stealth Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted to you by your background: (a) field gear and any one martial weapon or (b) animal-hide armor and any one martial weapon or (c) silk armor, a longbow, 20 willow-leaf arrows, 1 armor-piercing arrow, and 1 humming-bulb arrow. (a) any one simple melee weapon or (b) any one simple ranged weapon or (c) two daggers . Focus Points By understanding the rhythm of battle, you can find the exact right moment to begin pressing an attack, defend, or launch a finishing strike. This clarity in combat grants you access to the focus points that fuel your martial techniques. Your bushi level determines the maximum amount of focus points you can have, as shown in the Focus Maximum column of the Bushi table. Additionally: You start each encounter with 0 focus points. You gain 1 focus point at the end of each of your turns. When you unlock combat stances at 2nd level, you accrue additional focus points at the end of your turn based on your combat stance. At the end of an encounter, unspent focus points are lost. You can’t gain focus points while unconscious. Martial Techniques Martial techniques represent exceptional feats of martial prowess that you can perform in place of default combat actions, standard attacks, and reactions. At 1st level, you know the weave through the storm martial technique, detailed below. Weave Through The Storm At higher levels, you gain access to additional martial techniques chosen from the list. The number of martial techniques you know increases with your bushi level, as shown in the Martial Techniques column of the Bushi table. You can’t use the same martial technique more than once per turn. Each time you gain a bushi level, you can exchange up to 2 martial techniques you know for other options from the list. You cannot exchange specific martial techniques granted to you by your class or archetype features this way (such as weave through t he storm ). Combat Stance Starting at 2nd level, your combat experience has taught you several different stances you can adopt. Each stance has different strengths and gives you a specific bonus along with an additional way to gain focus points. You can have only one combat stance active at a time. When you roll initiative, you choose a stance to adopt, and you can switch between stances by spending your full movement or an action. Stances can only be used during combat encounters. Choose two stances you have mastered from the following list: Ember Stance You adopt a menacing stance that makes your foes think twice about approa ching you. Stance Effects: When a hostile creature that you can perceive ends its movement within 10 feet of you, you can spend your reaction to have it suffer the marked for death condition (your next successful melee attack against it deals an additional 1d8 force damage) for 1 minute. Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, gain 3 additional focus points if you reduced at least one hostile creature to 0 hit points since the end of your last turn. Mountain Stance You set your stance to protect against foes from multiple directions, using the fray of battle to guard the angles you must leave v ulnerable. Stance Effects: When there is at least one hostile creature within 5 feet of you, you benefit from half-cover (+2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws) against other hostile creatures’ attacks, invocations, spells, and other negative effects. Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, gain 1 additional focus point for each hostile creature within 5 feet of you. River Stance You keep mobile, swirling past your foes with a flowi ng stance. Stance Effects: Your movement speed is increased by +5 feet. Additionally, on your turn, you can spend a bonus action to perform a Dash, Disengage, Help, or Search action. Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, gain 1 additional focus point for each of the following actions that you performed: Dash, Disengage, Help, or Search. Willow Stance You maintain a loose stance that lets you throw sudden, unexpected strikes to catch your foes of f-balance. Stance Effects: During your turn, you can spend your bonus action to grapple or shove one creature within 5 feet of you. You can use Dexterity (Acrobatics) instead of Strength (Athletics) for any contested checks you make as part of this action, Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, gain 1 additional focus point for each contested check and each standard unarmed attack you made this turn. Sudden Clarity Starting at 2nd level, you can center yourself quickly on the battlefield, taking note of the opportunities and risks before you. At the start of your turn as a free action, you can use this feature to gain 1 focus point for each hostile creature you can perceive within 10 feet of you. Once you use this feature, you must complete a short or long rest before you can use it again. Starting at 9th level, when you use this feature, you also gain 3d6 temporary hit points. At 17th level, when you use this feature, you gain 3d12 temporary hit points instead of 3d6. Bushi Archetype At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that reflects your way of making war. Choose Samurai Armsmaster, Protector, or Vanguard, detailed at the end of this class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level, and again at 5th, 7th, 10th, 13th, and 18th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 14th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Extra Attack Starting at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. The number of attacks increases to three when you reach 11th level, and increases to four at 20th level. Veteran’s Instincts Starting at 6th level, you become adept at steeling yourself against harm you have faced before. When you use your weave through the storm martial technique, you can use this feature to gain resistance to all damage types the attack deals for 1 minute. This is applied to that attack before the damage reduction of weave through the storm . Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. At 15th level, you can use this feature one additional time before finishing a short or long rest. Additional Combat Stance Starting at 10th level, you master one additional combat stance of your choice from the bushi list. Bushi Archetypes There are countless different ways of pursuing the bushi’s art, three of which are detailed here. The Protector archetype focuses on defense and survival, gaining access to heavy armor to assist in its goal. The Vanguard archetype is focused around flexible combat, picking the right tool for the job, and leading from the front as the tip of the spear. Samurai Armsmaster Protector Vanguard

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

