# Captain

**description**: A half-elf, adorned in the ribbons and medals of a high-ranking commander sits astride an armored warhorse. To her right, a powerfully built orcish man in more pedestrian attire sits atop his own horse, shouldering a hefty greataxe. They set down the road together, accompanied by blaring trumpets and banging drums, which announce their approach. Puffing on a pipe and eyeing the room, a halfling guildmaster in a fitted suit twirls a dagger between his fingers. A crowd of thieves, crooks, and bandits are arrayed before him, all studying blueprints laid out on a candlelit table. Tonight, their chapter of the Thieves’ Guild becomes rich, and their guildmaster goes down in history. Kobolds swarm left and right, scampering across piles of gold pieces, only to be met by the dwarf’s greataxe. Arrow after arrow, a human archer looses shots that merely plink off the enraged dragon’s crimson scales. A gnomish mage gathers crackling arcane might in his hands for a devastating magical blast. Across the chamber, amidst the chaos, a plan crystallizes in the adventuring company’s leader. She begins shouting orders, and the party sets into motion. Decisive leaders and brilliant strategists, captains inspire their allies to greatness. Invariably, they stand alongside their cohorts—their devoted lieutenants, whom they entrust with their lives. Captains out-strategize their enemies, ensuring that, while they rarely deal the killing blow, they’re always on the winning side. Fearless Leaders Many people aspire to command, but few inspire loyalty as a captain does. Captains rally allies to their side through confidence and determination, but gain long-term friends through wisdom and accountability. A good captain thinks a little bigger than their compatriots, planning one step further and fitting their allies like puzzle pieces to the challenges ahead. To their eyes, there are few defeats; only setbacks, diversions, and detours. Success is always on the path ahead. Moreover, captains lead by example. They stand shoulder-to-shoulder with knights, creep through the night alongside rogues, and study arcane texts with mages, even when they barely understand what they’re reading. Captains are at the front line with their allies, not barking orders from afar. Cohort and Commander A captain is only as good as their second in command, their cohort, who stands by them at every step and safeguards their plan’s success. Far more than a simple ally, a captain’s cohort is a confidant, an advisor, and a trusted friend. Cohorts see their captain as a wellspring of information, and will follow them to the ends of the earth. Creating a Captain The ideal captain—a consummate leader—can be realized in many different ways. Your captain could be a head of an adventuring company, an officer in an army, the president of a corporation, the chief of a tribe, the admiral of a fleet, or any other type of leader. The only commonalities amongst captains are their positions of authority and natural inclinations toward leadership. You should consider how your captain chooses to lead: not simply what banner they fly, but how they treat their followers and how they give orders. Do you rally others to your side with a magnetic personality or a stoic facade? How would you deal with a dilemma that offers only losing strategies? How do you treat your opponents once you’ve secured victory? You should also think of previous victories or defeats that have defined your captain in the past. Has your story been that of a meteoric rise or a disgraceful fall? What event first thrust you into leadership, and how did you first take to it? Which success or defeat led you to the life of an adventurer? Quick Build You can make a captain quickly by following these suggestions. First, make Strength or Dexterity your highest ability score, followed by Charisma. Next, select History and Persuasion as your skills, and take the Dueling Fighting Style. Lastly, choose a background reflecting your leadership experience. The Captain Level Proficiency Bonus Features Battle Dice Cohort Feature 1st +2 Born Leader, Fighting Style — — 2nd +2 Cohort — Cohort feature 3rd +2 Banner, War Tactics 2d8 — 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 2d8 — 5th +3 Blitz 2d8 — 6th +3 — 3d8 Cohort feature 7th +3 Banner feature 3d8 — 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 3d8 — 9th +4 Advanced Tactics 3d8 — 10th +4 — 3d10 Cohort feature 11th +4 Coordinated Strike 3d10 — 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 3d10 — 13th +5 Banner feature 3d10 — 14th +5 — 4d10 Cohort feature 15th +5 Lead by Example 4d10 — 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 4d10 — 17th +6 Banner feature 4d10 — 18th +6 — 4d12 Cohort feature 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 4d12 — 20th +6 Legendary Commander 4d12 — Class Features As a captain, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per captain level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per captain level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Constitution, Charisma Skills: Choose two from Animal Handling, Athletics, Deception, History, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, and Persuasion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) scale mail or (b) leather armor A dagger and (a) a warhammer, (b) a longsword, or (c) any simple weapon (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts, (b) a shortbow and 20 arrows, or (c) 5 javelins An embroidered standard and (a) a diplomat’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack Born Leader By 1st level, your competence and commanding personality lend you a knack for leadership. Common folk defer to your authority and influence, especially in times of crisis. As a result, you have advantage on any Charisma (Persuasion) check you make to convince someone to let you take charge of a situation or to give someone orders in a dangerous situation. Additionally, you can use your Charisma modifier, instead of your Intelligence, for any ability check you make related to planning, strategy, or tactics. You’re not a “hireling” if I don’t pay you! Fighting Style At 1st level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again. Archery You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons. Defense While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. Dueling When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon. Protection When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be wielding a shield. Cohort Starting at 2nd level, you gain a loyal cohort who carries your banner and follows your lead. Initiating a Cohort Select a companion from the Cohort section; following an 8-hour initiation period, that creature becomes your cohort. You can have only one cohort at a time. If your cohort is ever slain, you can raise them from the dead by the usual methods, such as the raise dead spell, or you can spend 8 hours initiating a new cohort. If you do so, your previous cohort loses all abilities granted by this ability, even if it is later returned to life. Your cohort obeys your commands as best it can. Your cohort takes its turn immediately before or after your turn each round (your choice), and you determine its actions, decisions, attitudes, and so on. If you are incapacitated or absent, your companion acts on its own. Cohort Features At 2nd, 6th, 10th, 14th, and 18th levels, your cohort gains new abilities based on its archetype. Hit Points For each captain level you gain after 2nd, your cohort gains an additional Hit Die and increases its hit points accordingly. Ability Scores Whenever you gain the Ability Score Improvement class feature, your cohort’s abilities also improve. Your cohort can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or it can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, your companion can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature, unless its description specifies otherwise. When you improve a cohort’s ability scores, remember to also increase other relevant statistics, such as skill bonuses, bonuses to hit and damage, and spell save DCs. Proficiencies Your cohort gains proficiency in skills listed in its statistics. It also gains proficiency with simple weapons, martial weapons, light armor, medium armor, heavy armor, or shields if its statistics contain weapons or armor from that category. Your cohort uses your proficiency bonus rather than its own. Because cohort statistics already include a +2 proficiency bonus, you need only adjust the attack bonus, skill proficiencies, and saving throw proficiencies starting at 5th level. Alignment Your cohort’s alignment is within one step of your own, and has a personality trait and flaw determined by the GM. Its bond is always, “I will follow my commander into any fray, and I will gladly fight by their side until my death.” Banner Starting at 3rd level, you adopt a banner which you fly in combat, emblazon on your armor, and fix to your seal. You can select from the banners which are detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level, and again at 7th, 13th, and 17th level. War Tactics Starting at 3rd level, you have a pool of battle dice that you can use to bolster your allies or perform special maneuvers in combat. You begin with 2 battle dice, which are d8s. You regain all expended battle dice when you finish a short or long rest, or when you roll initiative. Your battle die changes and more battle dice become available when you reach certain levels in this class, as shown in the Battle Dice column of the Captain table. Saving Throws If one of your maneuvers calls for a saving throw to resist its effects, the saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Maneuver save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier Maneuvers You can spend battle dice to use the following maneuvers: Brace. As a bonus action on your turn, you can expend a battle die to bolster your allies. Each allied creature within 30 feet of you that can see or hear you adds the battle die to all saving throws it makes until the end of your next turn. Rally. As a bonus action on your turn, you can expend a battle die to choose one allied creature other than yourself within 60 feet of you that can see or hear you. That creature regains hit points equal to the number rolled + your Charisma modifier. You can’t use this ability to heal a creature that has 0 hit points. Staggering Strike. As a bonus action when you make a weapon attack against a Large or smaller creature, you can expend a battle die to attempt to daze the target. On a hit, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated until the start of your next turn. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Blitz Starting at 5th level, as a bonus action on your turn, you can direct your cohort or a friendly creature within 60 feet of you that can see or hear you to fight alongside you. The chosen creature can use its reaction to move up to its speed or make a single weapon attack. Advanced Tactics At 9th level, your maneuvers improve in the following ways: Brace. Allies can also add the battle die to their ability checks until the start of your next turn. Rally. Whenever you spend a battle die to restore hit points to a creature, that creature also gains temporary hit points equal to your captain level. Staggering Strike. When you hit with a staggering strike, you add the battle die to the damage roll. Coordinated Strike By 11th level, you and your cohort fight as a perfect fighting unit. Once on each of your turns when you hit a creature with an attack, you can deal an extra 2d8 damage to the creature if your cohort has also hit that creature with an attack since the end of your last turn. Lead by Example Starting at 15th level, whenever you roll a 20 on an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, each friendly creature within 30 feet of you has advantage when it makes the same type of roll (attack roll, ability check, or saving throw) before the start of your next turn. Legendary Commander At 20th level, you have 3 legendary actions. At the end of another creature's turn, you can spend a legendary action to take an action of your choice, or allow a friendly creature within 60 feet of you that can hear or see you to take an action of their choice. If a creature takes the Attack action as a legendary action, it can attack more than once if it has a feature, like Extra Attack, that gives it extra attacks. You regain all expended legendary actions when you finish a long rest. Banners Captains adopt emblems that denote their virtues, skills, and command styles, which they fly upon their banners to rally allies to their side. A symbolic statement, this heraldry speaks volumes about what a captain prizes in the world, be it knowledge, allies, or personal gain. Banners Name Description Dragon Banner Uses maneuvers to annihilate their foes on the battlefield Eagle Banner A bow master who uses precision shots to strike foes from high above Jolly Roger Banner A duelist and swashbuckler trained with a cutlass and the unfair tactics of brigands Lion Banner A knightly leader who challenges their foes to honorable combat Ram Banner Shoves their foes and knocks them prone to gain the upper hand in combat Raven Banner A stealthy master of guerilla warfare and covert tactics Turtle Banner Emphasizes defense above all else, using heavy armor and shield wall tactics

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Valda's Spire of Secrets

