# Convict

**description**: Unchained As a thief, killer, deceiver, trickster, and survivor, you navigate a perilous world where only stealth and cunning ensure survival. Branded an outcast, you dwell on life's fringes, traversing untrodden paths and backroads to diverse destinations and forces. Success isn't a guarantee on the longest trail. Offering one hand in friendship, the other conceals a blade, poised to strike. Your existence depends on a delicate dance of trust and betrayal in this dangerous realm. Haunted by past crimes, you constantly glance over your shoulder along the paths and roads you travel, aware that your history may catch up with you one day. You harbor undisclosed motives for your crimes, yet the world labels you a criminal, an escapee from due punishment, creating a stark contrast between your truth and public perception. d4 Crime 1 You murdered a man of the cloth. You have committed the ultimate blasphemy by killing a holy man. You cried vengeance, but to the community, you had committed the ultimate act of evil. 2 In a heated exchange, your dearest childhood friend met their demise at your hands. The truth behind the tragic incident is a burden you alone bear. 3 During a solemn winter night, your family was attacked and brutally murdered. You returned home and witnessed the gruesome crime scene. There was no clue of involvement by outside forces, and you are blamed for their demise. 4 You had to protect a caravan of traders and their families. They were ambushed and slaughtered; you failed to see the signs and clues and fled. You were captured soon after and convicted for neglect and cowardice. Level Proficiency | Dirty Fighting Features 1st +2 Dirty Fighting (Pocket Sand, Slice and Dice), Resourceful, Market Blagger 2nd +2 Ankle Blade, The Old One-Two, Wiry 3rd +2 Hit Them When They’re Down, Unchained, Shiv Defense 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 Extra Attack, Fresh Ink 6th +3 Deadly Swings, Dirty Fighting (Catapult, Smoke Bomb) 7th +3 Brawling Flourish, Combination Strikes, String Puller 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 I’m not Locked in Here with You… Prison Scars 10th +4 Serious Ink 11th +4 Deep Cuts, Improved Ankle Blade 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 Tough Life 14th +5 Escapist 15th +5 Fresh Ink 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 Death Swing 18th +6 Gang Boss 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 Criminal Empire Class Features Hit Points Hit Dice: d10 Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per Convict level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor, medium armor Weapons: Simple weapons, rapier, scimitar, shortsword, whip Tools: Thieves' tools; one gaming set or one musical instrument of your choice Saving Throws: Dexterity, Charisma Skills: Choose three from Acrobatics, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) scale mail or (b) studded leather armor (a) two shortswords or (b) a rapier or (c) two simple melee weapons (a) a burglar's pack or (b) an explorer's pack or (c) an entertainer’s pack (a) a gaming set or (b) a musical instrument Dirty Fighting You know how to use underhanded tactics to turn the situation in your favor. You gain a number of Dirty Fighting points equal to your Dexterity modifier. You can spend these points to activate special abilities. You regain all the expended points when you finish a short or long rest. Prison Ink: You have a tattoo that represents your past prison life. Choose one: Skull & Bones: As a pirate, you gain proficiency in Athletics. You can use your Constitution score instead of your Strength score when you make Athletics check to swim. Flames: As an arsonist, you created a bond with fire. You learn the Produce Flame cantrip. Your Spellcasting ability for this cantrip is Dexterity. Lighting Bolt: As a highwayman, you learned to be on your toes all the time. You gain a +2 bonus to your initiative rolls. Coins: As a thief you can always scrounge up what you need, when you need it, as if out of thin air. Choose an item from the Adventuring Gear section. As a bonus action, make a Sleight of Hand check with a DC equal to the gold value of the item; if you are successful, you gain the item. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. A Single Tear: You have caused (willingly or not) someone’s death. You make Intimidation checks with advantage when dealing with humanoid creatures. Someone’s Name: You have (or had) a special relationship with someone, platonic or romantic. As an action, you can cast Charm Person without requiring components or a spell slot. Your Spellcasting ability for this Spell is Constitution. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 1 Pocket Sand: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) when you take the Attack action, before you attack you throw dirt in your opponent’s eyes. They have to make a DEX saving throw with a DC equal to (8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus) or be Blinded until the end of your next turn. Slide and Slice: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) you can use Dash as a bonus action. If you do so and you move at least 15 ft. in a straight line this turn before taking the Attack action, you have advantage on the next melee attack you make until the start of your next turn. If the attack hits, you don’t provoke opportunity attacks from the target until the end of your turn. Resourceful: You gain proficiency with improvised weapons. When you wield an improvised weapon, it deals 1d6 damage and it gains the finesse, light and thrown (range 30/60) properties. If you have no Dirty Fighting points left when you roll initiative, you immediately gain one, but you lose it if you don't use it before the end of the combat in which you've gained it. Market Blagger: You pay 10% less (rounded up) when you negotiate the price for items and services. The bonus increases to 20% at level 10. Level 2 Ankle Blade: When you hit a creature within 5 ft. with a weapon attack on your turn, you can strike the same target with a concealed shiv. This attack uses the same ability modifier as the primary attack. The weapon's damage die for this attack is a d4, and it deals piercing damage. The Old One-Two: When you hit the same target with a weapon attack two or more times in the same turn, you Daze them. A Dazed creature has disadvantage on attack rolls until the end of their next turn. They can use a bonus action on their turn to clear their head and end this condition. Wiry: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) If you are subjected to an effect which allows you to make a Dexterity save for half damage, you can use your reaction to take no damage instead. Level 3 Hit Them When They’re Down: when you hit a creature that is subjected to at least one condition with a melee or ranged attack, you deal 1d6 extra damage. Unchained: You can attempt to escape a grapple as a bonus action. Shiv Defense: You gain a +2 bonus to AC while you are wielding at least one improvised weapon. Level 4 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 5 Extra Attack: Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. Fresh Ink: you can choose another Tattoo from the Prison Ink list. Level 6 Deadly Swings: When you wield an improvised weapon it deals 1d8 damage. Catapult: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) Choose a suitable object (like a chair or barrel) within 5ft. As a bonus action, you can propel it with striking force towards a point that you can see within 30 ft. Any creature within 5 ft. of that point must succeed on a DEX SAVE with a DC equal to (8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus). Roll a number of d8 equal to your proficiency bonus. On a failed save, a creature takes bludgeoning damage equal to that amount and is knocked prone; on a success, they take half damage and are not prone. Smoke Bomb: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) You can throw a small capsule that bursts into a puff of smoke. As a bonus action, you create a 20-foot-radius sphere of smoke centered on a point within 30 ft that you can see. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured, but it counts as lightly obscured for you. It lasts for 1 minute or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Level 7 Brawling Flourish: When you wield an improvised weapon, you can add your Constitution modifier to its damage rolls and your weapon attacks with it are considered magical. Combination Strikes: When you hit the same Large or smaller creature with a weapon attack three or more times in the same turn, you can choose to make them make a STR SAVE with a DC equal to (8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus) or you grapple them. String Puller: You gain proficiency in the Persuasion or Deception skill. If you already have proficiency with that skill, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Persuasion or Deception check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for these skills. Level 8 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 9 I’m not Locked in Here with You…: Creatures that you grapple have disadvantage on melee attack rolls against you. As long as a creature is grappling you, you deal 1d6 extra damage when you hit them with a weapon attack. Prison Scars: You are immune to being frightened. Level 10 Serious Ink: the list of Tattoos available to you with the Fresh Ink feature can now include these ones as well. You can choose the meaning for these tattoos - no one will contradict you. Choose one when you get this feature: Cobweb: As an action, you can cast Spider Climb without requiring components or a spell slot. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Playing Cards: When you make a skill check, you can choose to get advantage on it. If you do so, the next opposed skill check you make before you complete a long rest is made with disadvantage. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you have completed an opposed skill check. Word on Knuckles: your bare hands count as improvised weapons. They don’t gain the thrown property granted by the Resourceful feature. A Rose: As an action, you can cast Suggestion without requiring components or a spell slot. Your Spellcasting ability for this Spell is Constitution. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 11 Deep Cuts: When you hit with an improvised weapon and you roll at least a 7 on your damage dice, the target takes an additional 1d6 slashing damage. Improved Ankle Blade: The damage dice on your Ankle Blade feature is improved to a d6. Level 12 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 13 Tough Life: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) When you are reduced to 0 hit points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 hit point instead. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Level 14 Escapist: You have advantage on checks to escape bonds and grapples. Level 15 Fresh Ink: you can choose another Tattoo from the Prison Ink list. Level 16 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 17 Death Swing: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) As an action, you can unleash a devastating swing against nearby enemies. You can make a separate melee attack with your main hand weapon against every creature of your choice within 5 ft. of you. Level 18 Gang Boss: (Costs 1 Dirty Fighting point) In cities and towns you can call upon the aid of local ruffians who will join you in combat. As a bonus action, you can make a visible or audible signal. At the start of the next Round, 2 (1d4) local scoundrels appear from a suitable location and join the fight on your side, helping you to the best of their abilities. They utilize the Criminal Stat Block. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 19 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 20 Criminal Empire: you gain the following benefits: You can use the Gang Boss ability outside of cities and towns, as long as the situation is suitable. You gain the benefit from all the Prison Ink tattoos. You have advantage on opposed checks when you deal with humanoid creatures.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Lion Banner Games

**book**: HellWatch Infernal Oath 5e Compendium Expansion

