# Courtier

**description**: The secrets, intrigues, and mysteries of Rokugan flow through its courtiers, who use their skill in rhetoric and keen insights to collect friends in high places and pursue clan and family agendas. Courtiers of the Great Clans act as rulers, advisors, artists, magistrates, bureaucrats, and scholars, and fulfill many crucial roles in the workings of these massive organizations. Commoners can be courtiers as well, and many village leaders, merchants, functionaries, and artists are just as skilled in the arts of persuasion as courtiers who are members of the samurai class. Clan Traditions Courtiers are vital to the functioning of the Great Clans of Rokugan, and each has its own traditions and protocols for diplomats, bureaucrats, and magistrates. Crab Clan Traditions. Detractors of the Crab Clan might say the Yasuki family is little more than a merchant house in samurai garb—the Yasuki would counter that members of their family are merchants, samurai, and much more. They are masters of the arts of commerce and the flow of commodities. The members trained in this tradition can acquire goods and services, even ones that a person may not yet know they need, in exchange for promises of assistance for their family and clan in the future. Some samurai see the Yasuki family’s focus on commerce as unseemly to the samurai class, but the Yasuki family teaches its students that the Crab Clan’s need for supplies in its unending war outweighs any petty concerns about etiquette that the pursuit of worldly good might raise. Crane Clan Traditions. No one plays the game of court better than the Crane Clan—after all, their predecessors wrote the rules. Diplomats trained in the Doji family tradition choreograph the courtly dance of favors exchanged, gifts given, and the right people invited to private gatherings. The Doji are always on the leading edge of fashion and culture, and Doji Diplomats need never use an unkind word: their silence speaks volumes, and a simple gesture says even more. Their networks of favors, gifts, and invitations allow them to weigh the ebb and flow of the social side of the Empire and adjust the scales to their benefit. Dragon Clan Traditions. The Dragon Clan is not known for its diplomatic presence in Rokugani courts, but it does have one very noteworthy school of courtiers. The Kitsuki family maintains a tradition of training investigators to master methods of observation, experimentation, logic, and reason to understand the truth and unveil mysteries. The Kitsuki Investigators gravitate toward legal work as magistrates and justiciars, in addition to serving as political representatives of the Dragon Clan. Lion Clan Traditions. In the end—after trials, sacrifices, and death—all that truly remains of a samurai is their story. The Ikoma Bard School trains its students as historians, bards, and tale-spinners, not just to preserve the stories of old, but to inspire the warriors of the Lion Clan to equal and exceed the achievements of their ancient ancestors. Ikoma Bards are no less warlike than the other scions of the Lion Clan. However, their most important duty lies in supporting each other. A member of the Lion Clan can fight against any odds with the confidence that no hero passes into history unsung. Phoenix Clan Traditions. The Asako family’s famous Loremasters study widely, and from that broad and firm base, they develop their specialties. It is rare for a Loremaster not to have at least passing knowledge of a subject, no matter how obscure. Acting as the courtiers of the Phoenix, the Asako Loremasters marshal arguments based on their expertise in the revered knowledge of the past. One should look for an Asako first in the library and then in court, usually deep in discussion. The Shiba family also teaches members of its Guardian School to defuse risky situations, helping prevent situations from reaching a point of violence. Scorpion Clan Traditions. Through the adept use of deception, exploitation, misdirection, and espionage, Bayushi-trained courtiers are the masters of using social skills to gather information about their rivals and allies alike. They are also trained in the subtle art of leveraging that information, keeping threats visible but veiled and blackmail deniable. In addition to its ritualist traditions, the Soshi family is also known for its Magistrate School, which instructs its students in interpretation and enforcement of the law. Unicorn Clan Traditions. The ever-friendly face of the Unicorn Clan is the Ide family. When the Unicorn Clan returned to Rokugan, it created a great deal of political and social turmoil, and it was emissaries and traders trained in the Ide family’s traditions that helped to build new bonds. While some of the other clans think of the Ide as soft, none can point to when they were able to take advantage of this perceived weakness. The Ide family teaches students to use their calm as a weapon, ignoring insults and politely welcoming compliments in equal measure. It also instructs them in knowledge of cultures both Rokugani and foreign, which allows its students to tailor their dealings with precision. Cities of Secrets and Stone Courtiers exist everywhere in Rokugan, but masters of rhetoric have truly flourished in cities. Merchant houses with wealth to rival the greatest of samurai families have arisen in some populous areas, as have powerful civilian organizations that provide key functions for these areas, such as firefighters. Additionally, crime syndicates have gained substantial influence in many cities—sometimes despite the efforts of the Great Clans, and other times with their direct, albeit clandestine, assistance. The politics of big cities can be as devious as any noble court, and the courtiers just as sharp and incisive. Quick Builds Generally, make Charisma your highest ability score. If you intend to select the Diplomat archetype, having a high Wisdom score is valuable, while Intelligence is a good choice for selecting the Investigator archetype. While these ability scores drive a large amount of your combat potential, Dexterity or Strength can also be helpful to make your attacks more effective. A number of iconic courtiers of Rokugan can be found in the more detailed quick builds provided in the Backgrounds section, such as the Doji Diplomat, Ikoma Bard, and Ide Emissary. Table 2-3: The Courtier Level Proficiency Bonus Features Intrigue Dice Intrigue Die Total Flourishes Known 1st +2 Intrigue Dice, Rhetorical Flourishes, Strategic Opening 2 d6 1 2nd +2 Additional Rhetorical Flourishes 2 d6 3 3rd +2 Courtier Archetype, Additional Flourish (by Archetype) 3 d6 4 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 d6 4 5th +3 Intrigue Dice (Improved) 3 d8 4 6th +3 Additional Courtier Archetype Feature, Extra Reaction (Two Reactions), Additional Rhetorical Flourishes 4 d8 5 7th +3 — 4 d8 5 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 d8 5 9th +4 Additional Courtier Archetype Feature, Additional Rhetorical Flourishes 5 d8 6 10th +4 Intrigue Dice (Improved) 5 d10 6 11th +4 Rhetorical Mastery 5 d10 6 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement, Additional Rhetorical Flourishes 5 d10 7 13th +5 Strategic Opening (Improved) 6 d10 7 14th +5 Additional Courtier Archetype Feature 6 d10 7 15th +5 Extra Reaction (Three Reactions), Additional Rhetorical Flourishes 6 d10 8 16th +5 Practiced Presence, Ability Score Improvement 6 d10 8 17th +6 Additional Courtier Archetype Feature 7 d10 8 18th +6 Additional Rhetorical Flourishes, Rhetorical Mastery (Improved) 7 d10 9 19th +6 Intrigue Dice (Improved) 7 d12 9 20th +6 Ability Score Improvement, Additional Rhetorical Flourishes 8 d12 10 Class Features As a courtier, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per courtier level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per courtier level after the 1st Proficiencies Armor: Silk armor Weapons: Simple weapons Tools: Any two sets of tools from the following lists: artisan tools, gaming sets, mystic implements , tools of subterfuge Saving Throws: Intelligence, Wisdom Skills: Choose four skills from Arcana, Deception, History, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Nature, Perception, Performance, Persuasion, Religion, and Sleight of Hand Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted to you by your background: (a) resplendent regalia or (b) unremarkable garb. (a) silk armor or (b) traveler’s clothes. (a) any simple melee weapon or (b) a hunting bow, 20 willow-leaf arrows. a dagger. any two sets of tools from the following lists: artisan tools, gaming sets, mystic implements, tools of subterfuge. Intrigue Dice With your insights, you can see into the hearts of others, and with your words, you can stir or provoke them to act. You start with two intrigue dice (d6s), which fuel your rhetorical flourishes (see below) and class features. When a rhetorical flourish calls for you to spend intrigue dice, you roll them and use the results of these dice as instructed. Additional Intrigue Dice Your maximum number of intrigue dice increases as described in the Intrigue Dice column of the Courtier table. Additionally, at 5th level, your intrigue dice become d8s. At 10th level, they become d10s. At 19th level, they become d12s. Intrigue Dice Recovery You regain half of your expended intrigue dice (rounding down) when you finish a short rest, or all of them after you finish a long rest. Additionally, you know how to capitalize on failed efforts, including your own. Whenever you spend one or more intrigue dice, recover one intrigue die for each result of 1 you rolled on those intrigue dice. Starting at 10th level, this triggers for each result of 1 or 2 on an intrigue die, and at 19th level, this feature triggers for each result of 1, 2, or 3 on an intrigue die. Rhetorical Flourishes You have access to one rhetorical flourish, which allows you to spend your intrigue dice to bolster the spirits of allies. It is a support flourish, which affects allies positively. Timely Advice (support, reaction). You speak words of warning to an ally at the precise moment they are needed, helping them evade harm. When a friendly creature is targeted by an attack or forced to make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to spend and roll one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. The creature gains a bonus to its Armor Class for the attack or to its saving throw equal to the highest result among the intrigue dice. You and that creature must be able to perceive and understand each other for you to use this flourish (see Additional Rhetorical Flourishes ). Strategic Opening You are skilled at exposing and creating opportunities for your allies to exploit with your actions and your words alike. Once per round, when you attack or use a rhetorical flourish on a creature, you can expose one of its weaknesses. Until the start of your next turn, the next time a creature other than you hits the exposed target with an attack, it gains a bonus to its damage roll equal to your proficiency bonus or courtier level, whichever is lower. Starting at 13th level, when an attack that received this damage bonus reduces a creature you exposed to 0 hit points, you regain 1 of your spent intrigue dice. Additional Rhetorical Flourishes Starting at 2nd level, you gain access to more rhetorical flourishes, which allow you to spend your intrigue dice in new ways to sway, reinforce, or undermine characters around you. You learn two additional rhetorical flourishes from the following list. You learn one further flourish from this list at various higher levels (6th, 9th, 12th, 18th, 20th) as listed in the Rhetorical Flourishes Known column of the Courtier table. Your courtier archetype also grants you a specific flourish listed in its entry at 3rd level. In addition to support flourishes, there are two additional categories of rhetorical flourishes you can now choose: intuition flourishes and scheme flourishes. Intuition flourishes give new information called clues, which build up over time for powerful effects. Scheme flourishes affect enemies negatively. If a flourish requires you to choose a creature that can understand you, it must be able to derive meaning from your words or actions and must be able to perceive you. The GM is the final arbiter of whether a creature is a valid target for a given flourish. Each rhetorical flourish lists its category and action cost in parentheses after its name. The following rhetorical flourishes are available: Artistic Appraisal (intuition, bonus action). You can examine a personal item or weapon that you can perceive to learn about its owner by spending a bonus action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make an Intelligence (History) check, adding the highest result among the intrigue dice you rolled. If the total is higher than the passive Perception score of the creature that owns the object, you learn one of the following clues of your choice: The creature’s background and affiliations The creature’s known ability types (e.g. invocations, martial techniques, spells, etc), but not which ones it knows The creature’s ability score modifiers The creature’s skill modifiers The creature’s senses, including its passive Perception score If you rolled an 8 or higher on at least one of your intrigue dice, you learn two of the above clues instead of one, and if you rolled a 10 or higher, you learn three clues instead of two. Careful Cadence (support, bonus action). With coded words, gestures, and meaningful looks, you can pass a secret message by spending a bonus action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. You immediately convey a covert message to a number of characters who can perceive you up to your Wisdom modifier. The maximum number of words in the message is equal to the highest die result among your intrigue dice + your Wisdom modifier. Then make a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check, adding the result of your highest intrigue die. Each creature not among the message recipients with a passive Perception score lower than the total is unaware you passed a message, and each one with a Perception score higher than the result knows you passed a message, but not what information the message conveyed. Clouds Parted by Steel (intuition, reaction). You can come to understand a foe through witnessing their martial prowess. After a creature hits you with an attack or you miss that creature with an attack, you can spend your reaction and one or more intrigue dice up to your proficiency bonus. Make a Wisdom (Insight) check, adding the highest result among your intrigue dice. If the total is higher than that creature’s passive Perception score, you learn one of the following clues of your choice: The creature’s reason for fighting The region or organization most closely associated with the creature’s fighting style The creature’s condition immunities, if any The creature’s actions (other than legendary actions and lair actions) Whether the creature’s maximum hit points are less than, greater than, or more than double your maximum hit points If you rolled an 8 or higher on at least one of your intrigue dice, you learn two of the above clues instead of one, and if you rolled a 10 or higher, you learn three clues instead of two. Feigned Opening (scheme, bonus action). You draw one foe’s attention with a veneer of vulnerability. Choose a creature that can perceive you. You can spend a bonus action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make a Charisma (Performance) check, adding the highest result among your intrigue dice. If the total is higher than the creature’s passive Perception score, it suffers the provoked condition (disadvantage on attack rolls targeting creatures other than you) for 1 minute or until it hits you with an attack. Honest Assessment (support, reaction). You offer a direct but helpful interjection on a friend’s action. When another character who can perceive you would fail a skill check, you can spend a reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Add the highest result among the intrigue dice + your Intelligence modifier to the result of the skill check. Incisive Wit (scheme, reaction). You point out a critical flaw in an enemy’s defense at a key moment. When another character who can perceive you would fail an attack roll, you can spend a reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Add the highest result among the intrigue dice + your Charisma modifier to the result of the attack check. Move as Your Own Piece (scheme, action). With calculated positioning and signals, you bait a creature within 5 feet who can perceive you to unleash an attack with consequences they don’t foresee. Choose a creature that can perceive you, then spend your action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make a Charisma (Deception) check, adding the highest result among your intrigue dice. If the total is higher than the creature’s passive Perception, you choose one of its actions and it immediately uses that action. You choose any targets for the action, or the area it affects if applicable. You can only choose an action you are aware the creature possesses, either by observing it firsthand or discovering it through clues. Rallying Oration (support, action). You speak words of encouragement to your friends, helping them find new reserves of strength within by spending your action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Choose a number of friendly creatures up to the number of intrigue dice you rolled, then assign one intrigue die that you rolled to each. Each creature gains temporary hit points equal to the result of the intrigue die you assigned it + your Charisma modifier. Additionally, if you assigned it a die that rolled a 6 or higher, that creature can immediately spend one of its Hit Die to roll that Hit Die, then heal hit points equal to the result + your Charisma modifier. Rouse the Soul (support, bonus action): Speaking from the heart, you rally the spirits of a friend, helping them to shake off gloom or maledictions. Choose one friendly creature suffering a condition who can perceive you, then spend your bonus action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Add your proficiency bonus to the highest result among the intrigue dice, then remove one of the conditions from the creature based on the result: 6 or higher: disoriented, distracted, provoked 8 or higher: As above, also blinded, charmed, deafened, and frightened 10 or higher: As above, also stunned and marked for death Rustling of Leaves (intuition, bonus action). You speak flatteringly or mockingly of a creature you can perceive to see how it responds by spending a bonus action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make a Charisma (Persuasion) check, adding the highest result among the intrigue dice you rolled. If the total is higher than the creature's passive Perception score, you learn one of the following clues of your choice: The possession present on their person or nearby that the creature values most The creature’s damage resistances and immunities The creature’s saving throw modifiers The CR (if an NPC) or class levels (if a PC) Their reactions, and whether or not they have legendary and/or lair actions If you rolled an 8 or higher on at least one of your intrigue dice, you learn two of the above clues instead of one, and if you rolled a 10 or higher, you learn three clues instead of two. Sear the Wound (scheme, reaction). Your words twist like a knife in the wound. When a creature who can perceive you makes a saving throw, before it rolls, you can spend your reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Increase the DC of the saving throw by an amount equal to the highest result among the intrigue dice + your Charisma modifier. If it would have failed at the original DC, it also becomes frightened of you until the end of its next turn. Stir the Embers of Courage (support, reaction). With words of courage, you help your allies steel themselves against the worst foes they might meet by spending a reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Choose a number of creatures who can perceive you up to the highest result among the intrigue dice. Each chosen creature adds your Charisma modifier to the next Wisdom, Intelligence, or Charisma saving throw it makes before the end of the encounter. Additionally, if the result of the highest intrigue die was an 8 or higher, each creature gain resistance to psychic damage until the end of the encounter. Stonewall Tactics (scheme, reaction). You play for time, wearing your foe down by using subtle flaws in their attacks to avoid injury. After a hostile creature attacks a friendly creature within 5 feet of you, you can spend your reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make a Wisdom (Perception) check, adding the highest result among of the intrigue dice. If the total exceeds that creature’s passive Perception, choose one of its actions which you have perceived firsthand or uncovered via clues. The next time the creature uses that action, it has Recharge 5+. Strength Concealed (scheme, reaction). You can display false weakness, overselling a hit to make yourself look less threatening. When you are hit by an attack or fail a saving throw, you can spend your reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make a Charisma (Performance) check, adding the highest result among the intrigue dice. For each other creature that can perceive you, if the total is higher than its passive Perception score, it believes you to be out of the fight. You become hidden from those creatures. If you attack, cast a spell, perform an invocation, or undertake another overtly hostile action, you are no longer hidden. Tactical Assessment (support, free action). You know how to direct your allies when a battle breaks out. After you roll initiative, you can spend one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Choose a number of other creatures who can perceive you up to the highest result among the intrigue dice. Each chosen creature increases its initiative result by your Intelligence modifier. Additionally, each chosen creature can choose to do one of the following: Move 10 feet Spend 1 of their Hit Dice to roll it and recover hit points equal to the result + its Constitution modifier Take a Dodge, Search, or Use an Object action If the result of the intrigue die is 8 or higher, you can also immediately do one of the above. Truth Burns through Lies (intuition, reaction). When you succeed on an Intelligence, Charisma, or Wisdom saving throw, you can spend a reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Choose a number of creatures who can perceive you up to the highest result among the intrigue dice. Each of those creatures has advantage on its next Intelligence, Charisma, or Wisdom check or saving throw this encounter. If the result of the highest intrigue die is 8 or higher, each of those creatures also has advantage on its passive Perception (a +5 bonus) until the end of the encounter. Vigilant Counsel (support, free action). You quickly respond to danger, and others look to you for guidance. During a surprise round, you can spend one or more intrigue dice, to a maximum of your proficiency bonus. Make a Wisdom (Perception) check, adding the total result of the intrigue dice. Each hostile creature that has a passive Perception score lower than the result can’t act in the surprise round. Well of Desire (intuition, bonus action). You can pick up on the subtle cues of what people want, and use it to probe their social defenses. You can spend a bonus action and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make an Intelligence (Investigation) check, adding the highest result among the intrigue dice you rolled. If the total is higher than the creature's passive Perception score, you learn one of the following clues of your choice: A material object that the creature presently wants Whether the creature’s intentions toward you are hostile, neutral, or friendly The faction the creature serves, if any The creature’s known languages The creature’s non-action abilities, if any (those listed before its actions) If you rolled an 8 or higher on at least one of your intrigue dice, you learn two of the above clues instead of one, and if you rolled a 10 or higher, you learn three clues instead of two. Whisper of Reprisal (scheme, reaction). Even when your blood has been shed, your demeanor can overwhelm the unwary. When another creature hits you with an attack, you can spend your reaction and one or more intrigue dice, up to your proficiency bonus. Make a Charisma (Intimidation) check, adding the highest result among the intrigue dice. For each hostile creature that can perceive you, if the total is higher than its passive Perception score, it becomes frightened of you until the end of its next turn. If you also roll an 8 or higher on the highest intrigue die, each creature that becomes frightened this way is frightened for 1 minute instead. Courtier Archetype At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that reflects your way of wielding your influence. Choose Diplomat or Investigator, detailed at the end of this class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level, and again at 6th, 9th, 14th, and 17th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 20th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Extra Reaction Starting at 6th level, have two reactions a round instead of one. You can only use one reaction per creature’s turn. At 15th level, this increases to three reactions per round instead of two. Rhetorical Mastery Starting at 11th level, you become extremely practiced in the classical strategies of rhetoric. Choose one of the following rhetorical styles: Astute: Once per round when you use a rhetorical flourish, you can treat the passive Perception score of a creature you target as reduced by your Wisdom modifier. Inspiring: Once per round when one of your rhetorical flourishes grants a friendly creature hit points or temporary hit points or a bonus to its next check, attack roll, or saving throw, you can increase the amount by your Charisma modifier. Strategic: Once per round when you roll a result on an intrigue die that is lower than or equal to your Intelligence modifier, you can choose one creature that can perceive you to suffer the distracted (–2 AC, removed after it is hit by an attack) or provoked (disadvantage on attack rolls targeting creatures other than you) condition until the end of its next turn. At 18th level, you can choose a second rhetorical style. Practiced Presence Starting at 16th level, your mastery of poise is such that you can appear imposing or uninteresting as you desire with a simple change of wardrobe and the way you carry yourself. While you are wearing resplendent regalia, you gain a bonus to your Armor Class equal to your Charisma modifier. Additionally, while you are wearing any other outfit, clothes, or type of armor, you can increase the DC of any check another character makes to recognize you by your Charisma modifier. Courtier Archetypes Courtiers serve many different functions in the Emerald Empire. Some are Diplomats who focus on building bridges, maintaining alliances, and spinning courtly intrigues to the advantage of their family, clan, or organization. Others are Investigators by nature, asking incisive questions and hurling themselves into the complex vagaries of the world with curiosity and keen attention. Diplomat Investigator

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

