# Cybermancer

**description**: Peering beneath the surface, his surroundings burst into a vibrant collection of data streams and commands. He brushes his fingers along the surface of a command board that only he can see. His implant runs white-hot, coursing with stings of commands granting him control of the energies that shape the universe. Cybermancers are espers who can view the world as if it were a complex, digital design. Through this unique perspective, they can decipher and manipulate energy at a molecular level, almost as if recoding a machine. Such abilities often awaken through their own exposure to the advanced technologies that preside over day to day life. Over the years, many of them have earned the nickname “world-hacker.” Interlaced Reality Cybermancers have two different perspectives. One is the world as viewed by the mundane eye. The other is that of a weave of data streams and codes, superimposed on top of the mundane view. Much like the augmented reality experienced by SIM users, cybermancers refer to this as their Interlaced Reality— an advanced user mode that enables them to “hack the world” and manipulate its energies. Though the cybermancer’s control over the physical world and the Silrayne Intergalactic Matrix (SIM) are completely separate, the concepts are very much the same. This is why many cybermancers often come from those skilled in either computers or other technical sciences. Program Personified In the SIM, users are represented by a digital avatar often known as a persona. Cybermancers likewise possess a persona that manifests itself whenever they channel their powers through their sorium device, usually an implant that interfaces directly with the brain. While a cybermancer’s persona can be of any chosen design, it is common for it to be a combination of their own personality and the path they’ve chosen to follow as an esper. Some cybermancers believe their persona may have actually chosen them instead of the other way around. Creating a Cybermancer While creating your cybermancer, take a look at your character’s personality and life experiences. Do they have a love for technology or have a natural aptitude for it? Perhaps they have a career as a technician or scientist. Perhaps they were instead exposed to it since birth. Or maybe they discovered a secret language deep in the ruins of the older races that somehow resonated with them? You may then wish to decide how you’ve adjusted to these awakened abilities and what impact they may have had on your life since then. Ability Scores Intelligence should be your primary ability score followed by Constitution. Strength or Dexterity could be useful for weapon use. The Cybermancer Level Proficiency Bonus Features Prime Talents Talents Known Talent Slots Slot Rank Complex Patterns 1st +2 Persona Form, Code Channeling 2 2 1 1 — 2nd +2 Complex Patterns 2 3 2 1 2 3rd +2 Advanced Interface 2 4 2 2 2 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 5 2 2 2 5th +3 — 3 6 2 3 3 6th +3 Persona Form Feature 3 7 2 3 3 7th +3 — 3 8 2 4 4 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 3 9 2 4 4 9th +4 — 4 10 2 5 5 10th +4 Persona Form Feature 4 10 2 5 5 11th +4 Esper Mastery (Rank 6) 4 11 3 5 5 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 4 11 3 5 6 13th +5 Esper Mastery (Rank 7) 4 12 3 5 6 14th +5 Persona Form Feature 4 12 3 5 6 15th +5 Esper Mastery (Rank 8) 4 13 3 5 7 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 4 13 3 5 7 17th +6 Esper Mastery (Rank 9) 4 14 4 5 7 18th +6 — 4 14 4 5 8 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 4 15 4 5 8 20th +6 Master Cipher 4 15 4 5 8 Class Features As a cybermancer, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per cybermancer level Hit Points at 1st Level : 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per cybermancer level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Simple weapons Tools: Choose one from Digital Technician’s tools and Hacker’s kit Saving Throws: Charisma, Intelligence Skills: Choose two from Astrophysics, Computers, Insight, Investigation, Lore, Persuasion, and Xenobiology Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a light pistol with 15 rounds of ammunition or (b) any simple weapon (a) two combat knives or (a) any simple weapon (a) a technician’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack Armor jacket, a SIM Unit and a Portable shield device (PSD) Persona Form At 1st level, you have a persona that represents your inner identity. It’s appearance is often similar or identical to your persona in the Silrayne Intergalactic Matrix (see Chapter 12 for more information on the SIM). Your project this persona through your sorium implant, translating your interlaced reality into effects in the physical world. You can choose whether or not your persona is visible to others whenever you use your class features and powers. Your choice of a persona form grants you features at 1st level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th level. Code Channeling Your ability to weave codes into potential physical energy grants you access to a particular set of talents. See chapter 10 for general rules on esper powers and chapter 11 for the cybermancer powers list. Prime Talents You know two talents of your choice from the cybermancer talents list. You learn additional talents of your choice at higher levels, as shown in the Prime Talents column of the Cybermancer table. Talent Slots A cybermancer’s persona uses a certain amount of memory to interface with the environment and create slots used to output esper powers. The Cybermancer table shows how many slots you have. The table also shows the rank of those slots; all of your talent slots are the same rank. To use a talent of rank 1 or higher, you must expend a talent slot. You regain all expended talent slots when you finish a short or long rest. For example, when you are 5th level, you have two rank 3 talent slots. To use the rank 1 talent avatar’s armor , you must spend one of those slots, and you activate it as a rank 3 talent. Talents Known of Rank 1 and Higher You know two rank 1 talents of your choice from the cybermancer powers list. The Talents Known column of the Cybermancer table shows when you learn more talents of your choice of rank 1 or higher. A talent you choose must be no higher than what’s shown in the Slot Rank column for your level. When you reach 6th level, for example, you learn a new cybermancer talent, which can be from any rank between 1 and 3. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose from one of the cybermancer talents you know and replace it with another talent from the cybermancer powers list, which must also be of a rank for which you have talent slots. Channeling Ability Intelligence is your channeling ability for your esper powers, so you use your Intelligence whenever a power refers to your channeling ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for an adept power you use and when making an attack roll with one. Channeling save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Channeling attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Complex Patterns Your unique skills allow you to compile energy patterns that imbue you with a particular esper ability or effect. At 2nd level, you gain two complex patterns of your choice. Your pattern options are detailed at the end of the class description. When you gain certain cybermancer levels, you gain additional patterns of your choice as shown in the Complex Patterns column of the Cybermancer table. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the patterns you know and replace it with another pattern that you could learn at that level. Advanced Interface At 3rd level, your persona gains a specialty interface, granting you one of the following features of your choice. Extended Interface You learn the bonded companion power and can activate it as a conventional talent. The talent doesn’t count against your number of talents known. When you activate the talent, you can choose one of the normal forms for your ally or one of the following special forms: bit drone, power sprite, or spyder. Additionally, when you take the Attack action, you can forgo one of your own attacks to allow your ally to make one attack of its own with its reaction. Combat Interface You can use your action to create a weapon bond, which appears as a melee weapon in your empty hand. You can choose the form that this melee weapon takes each time you create it. You are proficient with it while you wield it. This weapon counts as forge enhanced for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to mundane attacks and damage. Your weapon bond disappears if it is more than 5 feet away from you for 1 minute or more. It also disappears if you use this feature again, if you dismiss the weapon (no action required), or if you die. You can adapt one forge enhanced weapon to be your weapon bond by performing a special technique while you hold the weapon. You perform this technique over the course of 1 hour, which can be done during a short rest. You can then dismiss the weapon, shunting it into an extradimensional space, and it appears whenever you create your weapon bond thereafter. You can’t affect a cypheos or core-bonded weapon in this way. The weapon ceases being your weapon bond if you die, if you perform the 1-hour technique on a different weapon, or if you use a 1-hour technique to break your bond to it. The weapon appears at your feet if it is in the extradimensional space when the bond breaks. Memory Interface You forge a small piece of sorium into a flat object shaped like a datacard. It is specifically attuned to your implant. When you gain this feature, choose three prime talents from any class’s powers list (the three needn’t be from the same list). While the card is on your person, you can use those talents at will. They don’t count against your number of prime talents known. If they don’t appear on the cybermancer powers list, they are nonetheless cybermancer talents for you. If you lose your datacard, you can craft a new one during a 1-hour process. This process can be performed during a short or long rest, and it nullifies the previous card. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Esper Mastery At 11th level, your mastery of the code grants you the ability to channel advanced esper talents. Choose a rank 6 talent from the cybermancer powers list. You can activate this power once without expending a talent slot. You must finish a long rest before you can do so again. At higher levels, you gain more cybermancer talents of your choice that you can use in this way: One rank 7 at 13th level, one rank 8 at 15th level and one rank 9 at 17th level. You regain all uses of your Esper Mastery when you finish a long rest. Master Cipher At 20th level, your persona can tap into the energies around you to regain expended talent slots. You can spend 1 minute focusing to regain all your expended talent slots from your Code Channeling feature. Once you regain talent slots with this feature, you must finish a long rest before you can do so again. Cybermancy and Esper Powers Though cybermancers gain their abilities through their understanding of the Silrayne Intergalactic Matrix (SIM), their skills in the SIM and their powers in the physical world have no relation to each other. The “code” they see is of their own design and does not translate to any known computer or programming language. The cybermancer’s understanding of “hacking” the world is merely how they see and control the energies around them, much like how a melder uses their bodies as energy conduits, while an adept uses the psychic links between themselves and others around them. Likewise, a cybermancer’s persona is a manifestation of their powers as an esper, having no direct relation to their persona in the SIM. See Chapter 12 for more information about the SIM. Persona Forms Every persona has a specific pattern and primary structure that make up its form. The persona a cybermancer chooses is representative of the powers and complex patterns they can access as an esper, as well as the method in which they are utilized. Some cybermancers may choose a humanoid persona that defines what they feel is their true personality. Some might choose a beast or figure of legend, while others lean toward something less common such as a weapon or a burst of elemental energy. Cybermancers who communicate regularly in the SIM can often identify each other by their personas in the physical realm. Breaker Controller Ghost Complex Patterns If a complex pattern has prerequisites, you must meet them to learn it. You can learn the pattern at the same time that you meet its prerequisites. A level prerequisite refers to your level in this class. Adversary Impaired You can activate impedance once using a cybermancer talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Amplified Beam Prerequisite: sprite beam talent When you use the sprite beam talent, add your intelligence modifier to the damage it deals on a hit. Autotranslate You can read any writing on any surface that you can see. The translated writing is only visible to you. Chaos Theory Prerequisite: 7th level You can activate haze of chaos once using a cybermancer talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Circuitry Burnout Prerequisite: 15th level, Extended Interface feature You can activate mechanical stasis at will—targeting an automaton or construct— without expending a talent slot. You must finish a long rest before you can use this pattern on the same target again. Cloak of Shadow Prerequisite: 5th level When you are in an area of dim light or darkness, you can use your action to become invisible until you move or take an action or a reaction. Combat Upgrade Prerequisite: 5th level, Combat Interface feature You can attack with your weapon bond twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. Cyber Sentinel Prerequisite: 9th level You can activate the towering guardian technique once using a cybermancer talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Digital Defender You can activate protection field on yourself at will and without expending a talent slot. Digital Echo You can activate illusory form at will and without expending a talent slot. Disguise You can activate alter appearance on yourself at will and without expending a talent slot. Driving Beam Prerequisite: sprite beam talent Once on each of your turns, when you hit a creature with sprite beam , you can push the creature up to 10 feet away from you in a straight line. Empowered Link Prerequisite: Extended Interface feature You can communicate telepathically with your bonded companion and perceive through your ally’s senses as long as you are in the same star system. Additionally, while perceiving through your ally’s senses, you can also speak through your ally in your own voice, even if your ally is normally incapable of speech. Extended Beam Prerequisite: sprite beam talent When you use the sprite beam talent, its range is 300 feet. Extreme Lag Prerequisite: 5th level You can activate temporal fault once using a talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Great Leap Prerequisite: 9th level You can activate jump on yourself at will and without expending a talent slot. Flow of Gravity Prerequisite: 9th level You can activate levitate on yourself at will and without expending a talent slot. Hidden Encryption Prerequisite: 15th level You can activate obfuscate at will and without expending a talent slot. Inner Energies You can activate innervate on yourself as a rank 1 talent, without expending a talent slot. Magnetic Persona You gain proficiency in the Deception and Persuasion skills. Night Vision You can see normally in darkness, both mundane and esper created, to a distance of 120 feet. Overwatch Prerequisite: 15th level You can activate veiled observer at will, without expending a talent slot. Pattern Detection You can activate esper sense at will and without expending a talent slot. Personal Sidearm Prerequisite: Combat Interface You can create a ranged weapon as your weapon bond and you can adapt a forge enhanced ranged weapon to be your weapon bond. Star Walker Prerequisite: 5th level While you are in Zero-G, you gain a fly speed equal to your walking speed and can move normally. You can also activate atmospheric adaptation once using a cybermancer talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Regenerating Matrix Prerequisite: Memory Interface You no longer have a need to sleep and are immune to any effects which can force you to sleep. You can gain the effects of a long rest by spending 8 hours performing light activity, such as research or keeping watch. Ride the Current Prerequisite: 7th level You can activate conduit transfer once using a cybermancer talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Seeing Red Prerequisite: 10th level You gain infravision with a range of 90 feet. Shapeshifter Prerequisite: 7th level You can activate transmute form once using a cybermancer talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Shared Optics You can use your action to touch a willing humanoid and perceive through its senses until the end of your next turn. As long as the creature is in the same planetary system as you, you can use your action on subsequent turns to maintain this connection, extending the duration until the end of your next turn. While perceiving through the other creature’s senses, you benefit from any special senses possessed by that creature, and you are blinded and deafened to your own surroundings. Shifting Positions Prerequisite: 7th level You can activate bishop’s deviation once using a cybermancer talent slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Somatic Adaptation Prerequisite: 15th level You can activate alter form on yourself at will and without expending a talent slot. Tech Expert You gain proficiency in the Astrophysics and Mechanics skills. Trace Distortion Prerequisite: 12th level, Combat Interface feature When you hit a creature with your weapon bond, the creature takes extra necrotic damage equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum 1). Tractor Beam Prerequisite: sprite beam talent Once on each of your turns, when you hit a creature with sprite beam , you can pull the creature up to 10 feet toward you in a straight line. Visual Decryption Prerequisite: 15th level You can see the true form of any shapeshifter or creature concealed by illusion or alteration effects while the creature is within 30 feet of you and within line of sight.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

