# Delver of the Abyss

**description**: Demonologist A spellcaster, summoner of creatures, and explorer of the world of demons and the occult seeks to enhance their power. You peer into the Abyss, seeking unseen horrors to gain a wealth of knowledge and advance your abilities. Wise individuals warn that staring into the abyss is tricky; after a while, it will gaze back at you. But that is something you seek and the answers you search for hide behind a veil of darkness. You constantly feel the presence of beings belonging to other planes of existence. Spells and illusions can alter the fabrication of the reality around you. Level P. Bonus Features Spells Known Cantrips Known 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 1st +2 Spellcasting, Portal Conjurer, Dark Matter, Horns 2 3 2 - - - - 2nd +2 Scent of Evil, Explorer 3 3 3 - - - - 3rd +2 Embrace the Void, Life Infusion 4 3 4 2 - - - 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5 4 4 3 - - - 5th +3 Arcane Infusion, Bountiful Portals 6 4 4 3 2 - - 6th +3 Demon Trap, Ether Visage 7 4 4 3 3 - - 7th +3 Unstable Portals, Delving Deep 8 4 4 3 3 1 - 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9 4 4 3 3 2 - 9th +4 Additional Portal, Dark Domain 10 4 4 3 3 3 1 10th +4 Dark Matter, Enjoy the Silence, Delving Deeper 11 5 4 3 3 3 2 11th +4 Our Kind, Shimmering Infusion 12 5 4 3 3 3 2 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 12 5 4 3 3 3 2 13th +5 Delving Deeper 13 5 4 3 1 3 2 14th +5 Terror Aura 13 5 4 3 1 3 2 15th +5 Eyes of the Abyss 14 5 4 3 2 3 2 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 14 5 4 3 2 3 2 17th +6 Astral Enchantment, Delving Deeper 15 5 4 3 3 3 2 18th +6 Portal Absorb 15 5 4 3 3 3 3 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 15 5 4 3 3 3 3 20th +6 Mirrors of the Past 15 6 4 3 3 3 3 Class Features Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per Delver level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Simple weapons Tools: Alchemist's supplies Saving Throws: Constitution, Charisma Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Deception, History, Intimidation, Investigation, Religion, Stealth Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a simple weapon or (b) a dagger (a) a scholar's pack or (b) an explorer's pack A hand-crossbow, a book of infernal lore and alchemist's supplies Cantrips You know two cantrips of your choice from the Delver of the Abyss spell list. You learn additional Delver of the Abyss cantrips of your choice at higher levels, as shown in the Cantrips Known column of the Delver of the Abyss table. Spell Slots The Delver of the Abyss table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your Delver of the Abyss spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these spells, you must expend a spell's level or higher slot, and you regain all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest. You prepare the list of Delver of the Abyss spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the Delver of the Abyss spell list. When you do so, choose several Delver of the Abyss spells equal to your Charisma modifier + your Delver of the Abyss level (minimum of one spell). The spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. You can change your list of prepared spells when you finish a long rest. Spelcasting Ability Your spellcasting ability as a Delver of the Abyss is Charisma, reflecting your connection with the plane of darkness and summoning creatures from other planes. Whenever a spell mentions your spellcasting ability, rely on your Charisma. Furthermore, when determining the saving throw DC for your Delver of the Abyss spells or making an attack roll with them, apply your Charisma modifier. Here's how to calculate these values: Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier Level 1 Portal Conjurer: As a bonus action, you can conjure twin portals that allow you to move between them by briefly traversing the Plane of Shadows. Choose two points on the ground that you can see, one within 5 ft. of you and the other up to 60 ft. from you; you create two swirling circles of dark energy in these spots. In the turn you use this feature, you can’t cast spells, except for Cantrips with casting time of 1 Action. When you touch one of these portals (as your free object interaction on your turn) you can teleport to any empty space within 5 ft. of the other one. Unless otherwise specified, other creatures are unaffected and unimpeded by the portals. The distance at which you can place the second portal increases to 90 feet at 6th level, 120 feet at 10th level, and 180 feet at 14th level. When you cast a Conjuration spell with a range of “Self (distance)”, you can have it originate from one of your portals instead of you; or calculate the range from one of your portals instead of from you. You can only do so if you are within 5 ft of one of your portals when you cast the spell. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Dark Matter: As a bonus action you can spend your life force to harm or assist. If you target an enemy, make a melee spell attack against an enemy within 5 ft. of you. On a hit, spend one Hit Dice; the enemy suffers cold damage equal to the roll plus your Charisma modifier. You gain Temporary Hit Points equal to half the damage of the attack. If you touch a willing creature, spend one Hit Dice. You regain hit points equal to your Charisma modifier; the creature regains hit points equal to the value of the roll plus your Charisma modifier. Horns: Protruding from your forehead, they serve as a testament to your link with the planes of darkness. They are a diabolical sight to behold. You gain advantage on Intimidation Checks. Level 2 Scent of Evil: As an action, you can detect the presence of infernal creatures within 60 ft. Until the end of your next turn, you know the location of any fiend, even if it is behind total cover, but the effect is blocked by three feet of stone or one foot of metal. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Explorer: You have experience traveling at night and through underground tunnels, dungeons, and caves. In these circumstances, you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) and Intelligence (Investigation) checks. Level 3 Embrace the Void: when you are about to damage an enemy with a spell or feature, you can choose to open yourself up to the Plane of Darkness. You and the enemy take additional cold damage equal to your Charisma modifier. If you damage multiple enemies with the same spell or feature, you can choose which ones are affected by this feature; in that case, add together the instances of cold damage you are about to take before applying resistances or other effects. Life Infusion: Whenever you damage a creature, you bind their essence to you. If a creature you have damaged in the previous 10 minutes dies, you regain a Hit Dice; alternatively, you can choose to regain hit points equal to your Delver of the Abyss level + your Charisma modifier. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Level 4 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 5 Arcane Infusion: when you use your Life Infusion feature, you can choose instead to recover a spent Spell Slot. Every day, you can recover spell slots that have a combined level that is equal to or less than half your Delver of the Abyss level (rounded up). Bountiful Portals: you can use your Portal Conjurer feature again after you finish a short or long rest. Level 6 Demon Trap: As an Action, you can cast a powerful bolt of magic against a fiend within 60 ft of you. They must succeed on a WIS SAVE or become trapped in a magical café for 1d4 rounds. While they are trapped, they are incapacitated and their speed becomes 0. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Ether Visage: You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened by celestials, fiends and undead. Level 7 Unstable Portals: As an action, you can disperse the arcane energies within your portals with explosive effects. Choose one or both of your portals; every creature within 5 ft. of one or more of them must succeed on a DEX SAVE or take 6d6 force damage (or half as much on a successful save). All your portals disappear afterwards. Delving Deep: You can prepare an additional Delver of the Abyss Spell. This spell can be of any level you have access to. Level 8 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 9 Additional Portal: When you use your Portal Conjurer feature, you can create three portals instead of two. The third portal has the same distance limitation as the second one. Dark Domain: You gain resistance to cold and necrotic damage. Level 10 Darker Matter: When you successfully hit a creature with any spell attack, you can use your Dark Matter feature without a need to make another attack roll. Enjoy the Silence: When your hit points are about to be reduced to 0 from damage caused by your Embrace the Void feature, you can drop to 1 hit point instead. Delving Deeper: You can prepare an additional Delver of the Abyss Spell. This spell can be of any level you have access to. Level 11 Our Kind: As a bonus action, you can camouflage yourself as a fiendish creature. Until the start of your next turn, no fiend can target you with attacks, spells or effects that target only you. During this time, allies can’t target you with beneficial spells or effects that target only you. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Shimmering Infusion: when you use your Life Infusion feature, you can choose instead to gain temporary hit points equal to your Delver of the Abyss level + your Charisma modifier. Level 12 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 13 Delving Deeper: You can prepare an additional Delver of the Abyss Spell. This spell can be of any level you have access to. Level 14 Terror Aura: As a bonus action on your turn, you can choose to suffer cold damage equal to one of your Hit Dice + your Constitution modifier. If you do so, until the start of your next turn you gain the benefit of half cover against any attack, spell or effect targeting you. Level 15 Eyes of the Abyss: As a Bonus Action, you can ignite your eyes with a magical glare towards an enemy within 30 ft of you. They must succeed on a WIS SAVE or become Frightened of you until the start of your next turn. While frightened by this feature, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from you by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move. Fiends that are immune to the frightened condition can not benefit from their immunity against this feature. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Level 16 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 17 Astral Enchantment: You gain advantage on saves against spells. You also gain advantage on saves against the effects and abilities of Fiends. Delving Deeper: You can prepare an additional Delver of the Abyss Spell. This spell can be of any level you have access to. Level 18 Portal Absorb: When you create a portal within 5ft of an enemy, they must succeed on a CON SAVE or be consumed by the Portal and taken to the Plane of Darkness. Only works on creatures with a CR rating of 8 or below. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 19 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 20 Mirrrors of the Past. You transform into ethereal matter forged from the Plane of Darkness. You gain the following abilities: Innocuous: You gain immunity to necrotic damage and resistance to all other damage types. Voice of Darkness: Once per long rest, you can unleash a scream that can only be heard by the creatures you choose within a 90-foot radius. Each creature that can hear the scream must make a CON SAVE or take half their maximum hit points in necrotic damage (or a quarter on a successful save). Portal Mirror: Allies within 30 ft. of you can travel through your portals by touching them the same way you do. Delver of the Abyss Spell List This class uses the Warlock spell list, with the following additions: Cantrips Psychokinesis 1st level Portal Shift 2nd level Otherworldly Blades 3rd level A Distant Cry 4th level Soul Scorcher 5th level Hellfire Breather

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Lion Banner Games

**book**: HellWatch Infernal Oath 5e Compendium Expansion

