# Duelist

**description**: The duel—a battle between two champions with no interference by outsiders—is an ancient tradition of Rokugan dating back to the tournament that decided Hantei’s rule over the newly founded Emerald Empire. As such, since the foundation of Rokugan, duelists have held an important place in Rokugani society. On the battlefield, duelists often take the stage first, or seek out other champions and cut them down even amidst the fray. At court, many courtiers have duelists as bodyguards, not only to protect them from assassins, but also to stand as their champion should a political rival challenge them over some insult. Trials by Combat Members of the samurai class are permitted to duel (or appoint champions to fight for them) should a grievance between two families or individuals grow sufficiently bitter. As a result, any samurai may need to be ready to defend themself or have access to someone who can draw steel to protect their reputation. Duels are also used for certain ceremonies and contests, including the selection of the Emerald Champion, the chief enforcer of law and Imperial decree in the Emerald Empire. As such, training as a duelist may be helpful to certain political aspirations. Many famous commanders are also accomplished duelists, to ensure that if they are intercepted by an assassin or called out to fight by a rival champion on the battlefield, they can vanquish their foe in single combat. Clan Traditions Dueling customs vary by land, and even within the lands of an individual clan. This section presents some of the ways duels are typically fought in certain regions, and how those who specialize in dueling are trained. Crab Clan Traditions. The Crab Clan’s practical ethos of battle generally dictates that duels to the death are a waste of valuable soldiers. However, many members of the Crab Clan nonetheless train in single combat techniques, from wrestling moves to battlefield challenges. The Yasuki family does train more traditional duelists, who are known for guarding merchant caravans and Crab Clan emissaries. Crane Clan Traditions. In Crane lands, legal duels are often fought with swords. As such, the Kakita Duelist Academy emphasizes “one strike, one kill,” seeking for its students to master the one perfect strike, or draw-cut. For this tradition, winning with the most elegant, efficient use of motion is the pinnacle of martial skills, as exemplified in winning a duel with a strike as one unsheathes their blade. The most legendary of living duelists in all of Rokugan, the kenshinzen , are an order within the Kakita Duelist tradition who have achieved a rank of mastery over the draw-cut that few can even conceive, drawing their swords with a fluid speed the swiftest eye can hardly track. These artists of the sword are highly sought-after as bodyguards, advisors, and generals, and the only way to join this elite order is by defeating a kenshinzen in battle in the presence of two other kenshinzen standing as witnesses. Dragon Clan Traditions. The Dragon Clan’s Mirumoto family trains its adepts in the niten, or “Two Heavens” tradition created by the family’s founder, wielding paired weapons such as the katana with the wakizashi or tiger hook swords. This school of swordsmanship emphasizes creativity and flexibility in combat rather than focusing on any single technique, using the terrain and even improvised weapons to full effect to take the day. Some students of the Kitsuki Investigator School also train in the duel as part of their curriculum, seeking insight into the human mind and heart through the clash of blades. Lion Clan Traditions. Battlefield duels are common, and many students of the Matsu Champion tradition are the tested survivors of these heroic clashes. Matsu duelists often dual wield blades or a sword with a knife, presenting two threats at once to harry the defender relentlessly. Alternately, they simply fight with whatever weapon they are currently wielding. Many of the storytellers of the Ikoma family are also duelists in addition to their training as courtiers, needling their enemies with clever words to break their composure and then striking with finality. Phoenix Clan Traditions. Ritualists have their own manner of settling things between aggrieved individuals: spiritual contests in which two ritualists attempt to invoke the same spirit. These contests can serve the same purpose as a duel between ritualists, so most ritualists do not train in dueling with the blade as a result. As such, the Isawa family’s skilled ritualists leave the fighting of martial duels to the disciples of the Shiba Guardian School. Scorpion Clan Traditions. The Scorpion Clan’s duelists are often theatrical, focused not just on cutting down the foe but on making clear the folly of challenging them in the first place. In this way, they use their clan’s fearful reputation to squelch challenges before they are ever delivered. Many shinobi are also trained as duelists, allowing them to cut down even the most skilled target should they isolate them. Unicorn Clan Traditions. In the lands of the Unicorn Clan, archery duels are often the way matters are settled. Sometimes these are competitive hunts, with the winner being the combatant who brings down the best prey. Other times, these are target shooting, or even one-on-one battles with the bow. Wrestling duels are also quite popular within the Unicorn Clan, a tradition inherited from their allies, the Ujik peoples of the Plains of Wind and Stone. Many Utaku Battle Maidens are accomplished duelists in numerous forms, including with the blade, the joust, and the bow. Wandering Blades Some of the greatest duelists to walk Rokugan have been wayfarers on pilgrimages to master a martial art, challenging the most skilled foes they encounter to hone their skills further and win a name for themselves as masters of the blade, spear, bow, or other combat specialty. Such duelists might not be trained in any one formal tradition, or they might have decided that training within the safety of a school’s walls could never give them the insight they need into the art of battle. Others are fleeing something from their past, or something they fear within themselves. For these duelists, the road becomes their mantra. They walk the way of the gleaming blade, the glint of the arrow, the approach of steady resolve. They have honed their skill in their preferred style and have become adept at protecting what they have, for fate has seen fit to bestow them very little but their weapon and their ferocity in battle. Quick Build Generally, make your Dexterity your highest ability score, focusing secondarily on Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma based on which archetype you intend to select. A number of iconic duelists of Rokugan can be found in the more detailed quick builds provided in the Backgrounds section, such as the Kakita Blademaster and Mirumoto Adept. Table 2-2: The Duelist Level Proficiency Bonus Features Focus Maximum Martial Techniques 1st +2 Evasive Footwork, Focus Points, Martial Techniques 4 1 2nd +2 Combat Stances, Lethal Instinct 4 2 3rd +2 Duelist Archetype, Challenge of Steel 4 2 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5 2 5th +3 Extra Attack, Duelist Archetype Feature 5 3 6th +3 Decisive Blade 5 3 7th +3 Duelist Archetype Feature 6 3 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 6 3 9th +4 Swift Evasion 6 4 10th +4 Additional Combat Stance 7 4 11th +4 Duelist Archetype Feature 7 5 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 7 5 13th +5 Extra Attack (2) 8 5 14th +5 Decisive Blade (Improved) 8 5 15th +5 Lethal Instinct (Improved) 8 6 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 9 6 17th +6 Decisive Blade (Improved) 9 6 18th +6 Duelist Archetype Feature 9 7 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 9 7 20th +6 Extra Attack (3) 10 8 Class Features As a duelist, you gain the following features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per duelist level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per duelist level after the 1st Proficiencies Armor: None Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: Bowyer’s kit or sword maintenance kit Saving Throws: Dexterity, Wisdom Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Athletics, History, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Performance, and Persuasion. Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted to you by your background: (a) resplendent regalia or (b) traveling clothes or (c) unremarkable garb. (a) any one martial melee weapon or (b) any two light melee weapons or (c) any two identical paired melee weapons or (d) one heavy martial melee weapon or (e) a hunting bow, 20 willow-leaf arrows, 1 armor-piercing arrow, and 1 flesh-cutter arrow. a dagger. (a) bowyer’s kit or (b) sword maintenance kit. Focus Points By understanding the rhythm of battle, you can find the exact right moment to begin pressing an attack, defend, or launch a finishing strike. This clarity in combat grants you access to the focus points that fuel your martial techniques. Your bushi level determines the maximum amount of focus points you can have, as shown in the Focus Maximum column of the Bushi table. Additionally: You start each encounter with 0 focus points. You gain 1 focus point at the end of each of your turns. When you unlock combat stances at 2nd level, you accrue additional focus points at the end of your turn based on your combat stance. At the end of an encounter, unspent focus points are lost. You can’t gain focus points while unconscious. Evasive Footwork You can avoid attacks through prediction, instinct, or cunning manipulation of your foe’s position. Choose Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. When you are not wearing armor and not wielding a shield, your Armor Class equals 10 + your Dexterity Modifier + the modifier for the ability score you chose. Additionally, while you are dueling, you have a +2 bonus to your Armor Class against any attack made by a creature that is not participating in the duel. Martial Techniques Martial techniques represent exceptional feats of martial prowess that you can perform in place of default combat actions, standard attacks, and reactions. At 1st level, you know the dawn’s grace strike martial technique, detailed below. Dawn's Grace Strike At higher levels, you gain access to additional martial techniques chosen from the list. The number of martial techniques you know increases with your duelist level, as shown in the Martial Techniques column of the Duelist table. You can’t use the same martial technique more than once per turn. Each time you gain a duelist level, you can exchange up to 2 martial techniques you know for other options from the list. You cannot exchange specific martial techniques granted to you by your class or archetype features this way (such as dawn's grace strike). Combat Stance Each stance has different strengths and gives you a specific bonus along with an additional way to gain focus points. You can have only one combat stance active at a time. When you roll initiative, you choose a stance to adopt, and you can switch between stances by spending your full movement or an action. Stances can only be used during combat encounters. Choose two stances you have mastered from the following list: Cormorant Stance You hold yourself ready to throw probing strikes or dive for deadly blow at your foe’s moment of greatest vuln erability. Stance Effects: When you hit with a standard attack or opportunity attack, your target suffers the distracted condition (–2 AC, removed after it is hit by an attack) for 1 minute. Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, gain 1 additional focus point for each attack you have made since the end of your last turn. Swallow Stance You set an evasive stance, ready to dart back swiftly at a moment’s notice to exhaust your foes and leave them open to your reprisal. Stance Effects: Attacks of opportunity made against you have disadvantage. Additionally, when attacking a creature that has expended all of its reactions, you gain a bonus to damage equal to your proficiency bonus. Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, gain 1 additional focus point for each opportunity attack that missed you this turn. Tiger Stance You project aggressive power, preparing for strikes that sweep your foes aside with sh eer force. Stance Effects: When you roll a natural 19 or 20 on an attack roll, you inflict additional damage equal to your proficiency bonus. Additionally, you have advantage on the first attack roll you make during your turn; this can apply to a multitarget attack roll. Finally, you have a –2 penalty to your Armor Class. Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, you gain 3 additional focus points if you inflicted at least one critical hit on a hostile creature this turn. Viper Stance You shift slowly and subtly, maintaining a posture that lets you stay alert to subtle cues in your environment and compensate for injuries you have suffered. Stance Effects: You have advantage (a +5 bonus) on your passive Perception score and on Wisdom saving throws. Additionally, when a negative condition you are suffering would impose disadvantage on any check, saving throw, or attack roll you make, you make that roll without advantage or disadvantage. Focus Generation: At the end of your turn, gain 2 additional focus points if you are suffering at least one negative condition or have at least one danger die assigned to you, and 1 additional focus point per condition or danger die beyond the first. Lethal Instinct Starting at 2nd level, you can detect the subtle ebbs and flows of the duel that leave one combatant dead and the other standing, their blade running red. After the staredown at the start of the round during a duel, you can use this feature to gain focus points equal to the number danger dice assigned to you, to a maximum of your duelist level or your proficiency bonus (whichever is lower). After you use this feature, you cannot use it again until you complete a short or long rest. Starting at 15th level, you regain the use of this feature whenever you win a duel. Challenge of Steel Starting at 3rd level, you can attempt to draw an enemy in a combat encounter into a duel with you. Once on your turn as a free action, you can issue your challenge targeting one creature that can perceive you. That creature must make a Wisdom saving throw with DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier. On success, it can choose whether or not to enter the duel. On failure, it must duel you, and starts that duel with danger dice equal to half your proficiency bonus (rounded down). See Duels for more information on integrating a duel into a skirmish. After you enter a duel using this feature, you cannot use it again until you win that duel or complete a short or long rest. Duelist Archetype At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that determines your way of fighting. Choose Blademaster, Adept, or Deathdancer, detailed at the end of this class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level, and again at 5th, 7th, 11th, 15th, and 18th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Extra Attack Starting at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. The number of attacks increases to three when you reach 13th level, and increases to four at 20th level. Decisive Blade Starting at 6th level, your finesse in the art of the deathmatch becomes even more refined. When you perform a finishing blow against an opponent and roll the danger dice that opponent has been assigned, you can reroll all dice with a result of 1 or 2 and must use the new result, even if it is a 1 or 2. At 14th level, you can reroll all dice with a result of 1, 2, or 3 instead and must use the result even if it is a 1, 2, or 3. At 17th level, for each danger die with a result of 6 or higher before rerolling, you can roll one additional danger die and add it to the result. These additional dice cannot be rerolled or add further results. Swift Evasion Starting at 9th level, your combat instincts let you evade hits or pursue fleeing foes with practiced speed. On your turn, you can spend a bonus action to perform a Dodge action. After you perform a Dodge action, your movement speed is increased by 10 feet until the end of your turn. Additional Combat Stance Starting at 10th level, you master one additional combat stance of your choice from the duelist list. Duelist Archetypes Duelists may all pursue mastery in single combat, but different types of duelists approach this with varied mindsets, philosophies, and approaches. Certain traditions are best reflected by certain archetypes, such as the precise Kakita Duelist being reflected in the Blademaster or the wily Mirumoto Adept being reflected in the Adept. However, even if a character is trained in a particular tradition, their player might decide to have them pursue any of the three archetypes to reflect their duelist’s unique style. Blademaster Adept Deathdancer

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

