# Engineer

**description**: Brushing her fingers along the rig’s control panel, a fervent rush of energy courses through the human’s body, pulsing in sync with the harmonious hum of her sorium implant. With a weave of his fingers, a dendus sends a small army of attack drones to blanket the field with laser fire, laying waste to the approaching raiders. A promethean soldier transmits silent commands to an army of nanomachines designed to seal the wounds of his fellow officers. Engineers are espers who make use of modern day inventions, robotics, computers, and chemistry. Combined with the use of sorium, their technical skills are open to an infinite realm of possibilities. Their personalized rig translates their thoughts into streams of data that weave into system commands. No matter their path, they constantly improve by focusing on their training, tools, and technical know-how to defy the odds. Masters of Science Engineers devote themselves to a particular path of study, often viewing the universe and the living creatures within it in a very technical sense. Their awakened intuition allows them to see the structural patterns and connections between all things, almost as if the universe were written in a code only they can read. The rise of many cosmic threats, both organic and inorganic, has led many an engineer down the path of a defender of worlds. Viral plagues, rogue mechanical beasts, and nefarious cybercriminals are just a few examples of what they stand against. Engineers tend to keep in contact with others of their field of study, forming scientific local or online groups. A Fusion of Forces Engineers have access to a vast array of materials, all forged or powered by sorium, the mysterious energy harvested from the Crucibles. An internal sorium implant, most often placed near the brain, grants them both a physical and neural link to their arsenal of tools. Through the use of a form of esper power known as Forging, an engineer is able to manipulate these resources, instantly crafting nanobots, assault and medical drones, and plasma weapons. These techniques can also directly alter or deconstruct matter and provide bio-enhancements to themselves or their allies. Creating an Engineer When you create your Engineer, think about what sort of scientific profession your character would follow. Would they study biology or chemistry? Or perhaps their study focuses more on physical mechanics. How or why did you choose to delve into this field? Is it connected to your character’s history or personality? Ability Scores It is recommended you make Wisdom your highest ability score, followed by Constitution. Intelligence is also useful for many of your skills. The Engineer Tech Slots per Technique Rank Level Proficiency Bonus Features Prime Talents 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 1st +2 Call Rig, Forging, Technical Specialty 3 2 — — — — — — — — 2nd +2 Technical Specialty feature, Rig Expansion (1/rest) 3 3 — — — — — — — 3rd +2 — 3 4 2 — — — — — — — 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 4 4 3 — — — — — — — 5th +3 Mechanical Devastation (CR 1/2) 4 4 3 2 — — — — — — 6th +3 Technical Specialty feature, Rig Expansion (2/rest) 4 4 3 3 — — — — — — 7th +3 — 4 4 3 3 1 — — — — — 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement, Mechanical Devastation (CR 1), Technical Specialty feature 4 4 3 3 2 — — — — — 9th +4 — 4 4 3 3 3 1 — — — — 10th +4 The Jury Rig 5 4 3 3 3 2 — — — — 11th +4 Mechanical Devastation (CR 2) 5 4 3 3 3 2 1 — — — 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 5 4 3 3 3 2 1 — — — 13th +5 — 5 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 — — 14th +5 Mechanical Devastation (CR 3) 5 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 — — 15th +5 — 5 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 — 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 5 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 — 17th +6 Mechanical Devastation (CR 4), Technical Specialty feature 5 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 1 18th +6 Rig Expansion (3/rest) 5 4 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 5 4 3 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 20th +6 Jury Rig improvement 5 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 1 Class Features As an engineer, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per engineer level Hit Points at 1st Level : 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per engineer level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor, medium armor Weapons: Simple weapons Tools: One artisan tool or Vehicle Proficiency (you choose) Saving Throws: Constitution, Wisdom Skills: Choose two from Astrophysics, Computers, Insight, Lore, Mechanics, Medicine, Persuasion, and Xenobiology Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a short blade or (b) wrist blades, or (c) an energy staff (a) light trooper armor, (b) medium trooper armor, or (c) heavy trooper armor (if proficient) (a) a light pistol and 15 shots of ammunition, or (b) any simple weapon (a) a scientist’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack (a) an engineer’s rig Forging Your tools and training allow you to perform various techniques to produce astonishing effects. Prime Talents At 1st level, you know three prime techniques of your choice from the engineer’s techniques list. You learn additional talents at higher levels as shown in the Prime Techniques column of the Engineer table. Forging and the Engineer’s Rig Each engineer has a set of tools and materials they use to employ their special powers. Often referred to as a “rig”, it comes in various forms but is almost always the size of a small pack or box. Every engineer is fitted with an implant that allows them to communicate directly with their rig. Aside from tools, there are two features that are universal amongst all rigs. Raw Sorium: Each rig has a small supply of raw sorium, which not only supplies power to several of the rig’s operations, it also allows the engineer to craft alchemical and mechanical materials on the fly to serve as the components required for their more powerful techniques. It is in limited supply, but much like weapons powered by sorium cores, the raw material regenerates after a period of time. Micro-Drones: Each rig has a set of coin-sized, spherical drones that the engineer controls directly. Though not always used, the drone is an invaluable tool that can multitask with the engineer and produce effects at a distance. Crafted from pure sorium, they can take on whichever color or texture the engineer chooses. They are hard to hit and destroy, but are easily replaceable if such a situation arises. Forging Preparation The Engineer table shows how many tech slots you have to use your techniques of Rank 1 and higher. To use one of these techniques, you must expend a slot of the technique’s level or higher. The tech slots represent the supply of raw sorium and equipment available to power your techniques. You regain all expended tech slots when you finish a long rest. You prepare a list of engineer techniques that are available for you to use, choosing from the engineer powers list. When you do so, choose a number of engineer techniques equal to your Wisdom modifier + your engineer level (minimum of one technique). The techniques must be of a level for which you have tech slots. For example, if you are a 3rd-level engineer, you have four Rank 1 and two Rank 2 tech slots. With a Wisdom of 16, your list of prepared techniques can include six techniques of Ranks 1 and 2, in any combination. If you prepare the Rank 1 mend technique, you can use it by expending a Rank 1 or Rank 2 slot. Using this technique doesn’t remove it from your list of prepared techniques. You can change your list of prepared techniques when you finish a long rest. Preparing a new list of techniques requires time spent in building and allocating resources. This should take at least 1 minute per technique rank for each technique on your list. Forging Ability Wisdom is your forging ability for your engineer techniques. A tool is useless without the proper judgment on where to use it. An engineer’s forte is not just based on knowledge, but on being able to use that knowledge effectively, timely, and reserved manner. You use your Wisdom whenever a technique refers to your forging ability. In addition, you use you Wisdom modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a technique you use and when making an attack roll with one. Forging save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier Forging attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier Conventional Forging You can use a technique conventionally if the technique has the conventional tag and you have the technique prepared. Technical Specialty Choose one specialty with which you focus your skills as an engineer. Each specialty is detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you specific abilities when you choose it at 1st level, as well as additional abilities 2nd, 6th, 8th, and 17th level. Specialty Techniques Each specialty also comes with associated techniques that you gain at the levels noted in the specialty description. Once you gain a specialty technique, you always have it prepared and it doesn’t count against the number of techniques you can prepare each day. Call Rig At 1st level, you can use your implant to remain in contact with your rig at all times. With your reaction, you can sense the general location of your rig as long as it is within 500 miles of you. You can sense the direction and can confirm the exact distance once you’re within 1000 feet. Regardless of distance, you can use your bonus action and expend a tech slot to call upon your rig to phase shift instantly into your hand. Once you reach 5th level, summoning your rig no longer requires you to expend a tech slot. If your rig is permanently lost or destroyed, you can forge a new one by spending 8 hours of time and 500 cu in materials. This can be performed during a long rest. Once a new rig is forged, your previous rig ceases to function and becomes a set of cybersmith’s tools. Rig Expansion At 2nd level, you gain the ability to use the raw energy in your rig to fuel additional effects. You start with two such effects: Electromagnetic Pulse and an effect that is defined by your specialty. Depending on your specialty, you may gain additional effects as you gain in level. When you use your Rig Expansion, you choose which effect to create. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Rig Expansion again. Some Rig Expansion effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your technician Forging save DC. Beginning at 6th level, you can use your Rig Expansion twice between rests and three times at 18th level. Rig Expansion: Electromagnetic Pulse As an action, you use your rig to send an explosive wave of electromagnetic energy that debilitates and disorients robots, drones, and any creature with the automaton or construct creature type. Each of these targets within 30 feet of you and with less than three-quarters cover must make an Intelligence saving throw. If the target fails its saving throw, it is impaired until the end of your next turn or until it takes any damage. This ability also affects mechanical creatures controlled by a live operator. An impaired target cannot take any reactions and its movement is reduced to 0. The only action available to the target is the dodge action. In addition, any unshielded computer panel or electronic device not worn by another creature is rendered inert until the start of your next turn. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Mechanical Devastation At 5th level, when an automaton or construct fails its saving throw against your Electromagnetic Pulse feature, it is instantly destroyed if its challenge rating is at or below a certain threshold, as shown in the following table. Engineer Level Destroys targets of CR... 5th 1/2 or lower 8th 1 or lower 11th 2 or lower 14th 3 or lower 17th 4 or lower The Jury Rig Beginning at 10th level, you can instinctively commune with your rig to devise some form of aid in a dire situation when you’re in desperate need of one. Describe the assistance you seek, and roll percentile dice. If you roll a number equal to or lower than your engineer level, you instinctively come up with an on the fly effect to assist you. The GM chooses the nature of this benefit; often in the form of an effect generated by an engineer technique or specialty power. If your roll is successful, you can’t use this feature again for 7 days. Otherwise, you can use it again after you finish a long rest. At 20th level, your rig provides you with assistance automatically, no roll required. Technical Specialties Engineers come in all types, each devoted to a particular field of study in which they specialize. These specialty fields provide the engineer with additional abilities that correspond with their chosen path. Where Engineer is a broad term, your specialty is what defines how others view your expertise as well as your title. Your choice of specialty may also be considered your career if you so choose. Engineers are considered a necessity for many of the different societies scattered throughout the galaxy. Some even establish trade centers from which to offer goods and services. Heavy Arms Machinist Medic Tinker

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

