# Gunslinger

**description**: A glass falls, clattering to the floor, and the tavern grows silent. A dwarf with a deep scowl, dripping with freshly spilled beer, leers at a nearby drunken orc and fingers for a pair of revolvers at his waist. High on a hillside, carefully concealed beneath foliage and stones, a marksman steadies her breathing and adjusts her scope, acquiring her target and waiting for the moment to strike. Risk is in a gunslinger’s blood. They are bold renegades, bucking tradition and forging a new path with dangerous and inelegant firearms. Gunslingers are infamous for surviving by their wits, relying on split-second timing and a considerable amount of luck to survive. Guts and Gunpowder Black powder is not for the faint of heart. Its thunderous applause is volatile and imprecise—a barely controlled explosion directed at an enemy. Unlike a sword or a bow, a firearm can explode in your hands, and its ammunition turns into a bomb whenever it catches a spark. Only the truly mad or eerily stalwart choose to become gunslingers. Gunslingers hurl death from their guns in a roaring cacophony. Whenever they draw their weapons, life or death hangs in the balance, hinging on their guts, snap decision-making, and quick aim. Dangerous Outsiders A gunslinger’s explosive lifestyle lends well to wandering and adventuring. Gunslingers often shoot first and ask questions later, an attitude that earns them few friends and plentiful enemies. In their travels, most gunslingers are secretive and go to great lengths to remain incognito, lest they be spotted by old foes with scores to settle. Yet their skills are always in demand. Anyone seeking protection or revenge can count on a gunslinger when they roll into town. After all, gunslingers often pick up odd jobs to make ends meet, and they have one truly marketable skill. Creating a Gunslinger When creating your gunslinger, consider where firearms fit in the campaign’s world and the common perceptions of those who use them. If firearms are the norm, your gunslinger might be a mercenary or militia fighter. If firearms are rare, your gunslinger might be one of a kind, a trailblazer in new types of warfare. It’s also not unusual for a gunslinger to be haunted by their past. Did some event drive you to the gun and motivate you to travel? Is there a bounty on your head in one or more regions? Do you have old enemies that seek you for revenge? Quick Build To make a gunslinger quickly, follow these suggestions. Make Dexterity and Constitution your highest ability scores. If you plan to choose the Gun Tank creed, instead make Strength your highest ability score. Lastly, choose any background, preferably one that emphasizes your familiarity with firearms and penchant for risk-taking. These folks sling guns, as opposed to those folks over there who sling axes. The Gunslinger Level Proficiency Bonus Risk Dice Features 1st +2 — Fighting Style, Quick Draw 2nd +2 4d8 Critical Shot, Poker Face, Risk 3rd +2 4d8 Gunslinger’s Creed 4th +2 4d8 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 4d8 Extra Attack 6th +3 5d8 Gut Shot 7th +3 5d8 Creed feature, Evasion 8th +3 5d8 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 5d8 Critical Shot improvement 10th +4 5d10 Creed feature 11th +4 5d10 Mankiller 12th +4 5d10 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 5d10 Dire Gambit 14th +5 6d10 Creed feature 15th +5 6d10 Cheat Death 16th +5 6d10 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 6d10 Critical Shot improvement 18th +6 6d12 Maverick 19th +6 6d12 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 6d12 Head Shot Class Features As a gunslinger, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per gunslinger level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per gunslinger level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Simple weapons, simple firearms, martial firearms Tools: One type of gaming set Saving Throws: Dexterity, Charisma Skills: Choose two from: Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Athletics, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: Leather armor with a longcoat A dagger and (a) a handgun and 20 bullets or (b) a revolver and 10 bullets Any two-handed firearm that isn’t heavy and 30 bullets or shells (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack Fighting Style You adopt a particular style of gunfighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again. Akimbo When you engage in two-weapon fighting with firearms, you don’t take a penalty to the damage of the second attack. Bullseye You gain a +2 bonus to ranged attack rolls you make with firearms. The weapon must have the Sighted property or have a normal range of 80 feet or longer to gain this benefit. This benefit doesn’t stack with the Archery fighting style. Duelist While you are wielding a firearm in one hand and nothing in the other, if you make a ranged weapon attack and exceed the target’s AC by 5 or more, you deal one extra die of weapon damage. You can only use this ability once per round. Shotgunner When you hit with a ranged weapon attack using a firearm that has the Scatter property, you can reroll the lowest damage die, and you must use the new roll, even if the new roll is worse than the original. Quick Draw Gunslingers have twitch reflexes and can pull a gun in the blink of an eye. You have advantage on initiative rolls. Additionally, you can draw or stow up to two weapons when you roll initiative and whenever you take an action on your turn. Critical Shot At 2nd level, your ranged firearm attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Starting at 9th level, your ranged firearm attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 18–20, and at 17th level your ranged firearm attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 17–20. Poker Face Starting at 2nd level, you have advantage on ability checks and saving throws made to prevent others from sensing your motives, perceiving your emotions, or reading your thoughts. Risk By 2nd level, you can perform incredible feats of daring that are fueled by special dice called risk dice. Risk Dice You have four risk dice, which are d8s. You gain additional risk dice, and your risk dice change as you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Risk Dice column of the Gunslinger table. You regain all expended risk dice when you finish a long rest. Using Risk Dice Once per turn, you can expend a risk die to perform a deed of your choice. Your deed options are detailed at the end of the class description. Saving Throws Some of your deeds require your target to make a saving throw to resist the deed’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Deed save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier Gunslinger’s Creed By the time gunslingers reach 3rd level, they embrace a way of living, known as their creed, which guides their judgments and their unique brand of gunslinging. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 10th, and 14th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Extra Attack Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. I’m so glad mortals keep inventing new ways of killing one another Gut Shot Starting at 6th level, whenever you score a critical hit against a Large or smaller creature with a ranged firearm attack, the bullet lodges itself in the target. Until the creature uses its action to dislodge the bullet, it moves at half speed and has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Elementals, Oozes, and Undead are immune to this effect. Evasion Beginning at 7th level, you can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain area effects, such as a red dragon’s fiery breath or an ice storm spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. Mankiller Starting at 11th level, when you use your action to make ranged firearm attacks, you can add your ability modifier to the firearm’s damage rolls. Note that firearms don’t normally add your ability modifier to their damage rolls. Dire Gambit Beginning at 13th level, whenever you score a critical hit, you regain one expended risk die. Cheat Death By 15th level, you have a knack for evading the grave. When you drop to 0 hit points and don’t die outright, you can use your reaction and expend one risk die to remain standing. You instead drop to a number of hit points equal to the number rolled on the die. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Maverick By 18th level, you have become unshakable. You have advantage on Constitution checks and saving throws. Head Shot At 20th level, when you score a critical hit against a creature with a firearm, you can choose for the shot to be a head shot. If the creature has less than 100 hit points, it dies. Otherwise, it takes an extra 10d10 damage from the hit. Elementals, Oozes, Undead, and creatures that lack nervous systems or vital organs take no extra damage from this feature. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Deeds The deeds are presented in alphabetical order. Bite the Bullet As a bonus action on your turn, you can expend one risk die to gain temporary hit points equal the number rolled on the die + your Constitution modifier. Covering Fire When you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack, you can expend one risk die as a bonus action to cow the creature. Roll the risk die and subtract it from the next attack roll the creature makes before the start of your next turn. Dodge Roll You can expend one risk die as a bonus action to move up to 15 feet and reload any firearm you are holding. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks, ignores difficult terrain, and allows you to move through a hostile creature’s space, as long as you don’t end your movement there. Limb Shot When you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack, you can expend one risk die as a bonus action and aim for one of its limbs, attempting to force it to drop one item of your choice that it is holding. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it drops the object you choose, which lands at its feet. Skin of Your Teeth When an attacker you can see makes an attack roll against you, you can expend a risk die as a reaction to dodge out of harm’s way at the last second. You add the risk die to your AC against this attack, potentially causing it to miss. Steady Aim On your turn, you can use a bonus action and expend one risk die to double the normal and maximum range for the next ranged weapon attack you make. Gunslinger’s Creeds Gunslingers have many features in common, but each of them walks their own path and follows their own code. This code, which gunslingers call a creed, embodies their core beliefs and informs their unique combat style. Gunslinger Creeds Name Description Gun Tank Lugs around heavy mounted firearms Gun-Ko Master A martial artist who uses the gun as a total weapon High Roller Gambles with their life and fortune; no risk is too high Musketeer A musket-and-rapier-wielding soldier of honor and courage Pistolero Fires six-shooters from the hip at incredible speed Sharpshooter A careful and precise, eagle-eyed marksman Spellslinger Fires spells as well as bullets in deadly bombardments Trick Shot Ricochets bullets to hit targets from any angle White Hat A law-abiding protector of the weak that never blinks in the face of danger

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Valda's Spire of Secrets

