# Hunter

**description**: Moving swiftly through the shadows, a promethean hunter stalks his bounty through the city streets, patiently waiting for them to reach his planned point of ambush. Dropping down onto the narrow platform, an ashenforged peers through the steam-filled chamber for her mark. Her senses kick in, rolling sideways to avoid the mecharoid’s laser fire. She spins about and pulls her rifle in a single motion, aiming for the machine’s sensor eye. A valna taps his visual display, receiving a location signal from his hunter drone. Its target has been found. Steeling himself, the hunter makes his way along the wasteland’s tainted earth, signaling his drone to circle around for a pincer attack. From crowded city streets to the harsh conditions of a lifeless planet, hunters are masters of tracking and confronting their targets anywhere, anytime. When not pursuing a mark, they can be staunch defenders of any territory. Tasks Less Ordinary Many hunters hold a reputation for taking on the jobs that no one else wants. In addition to being skilled combatants, they are expert trackers and resourceful investigators. Each one has their own method of operation, often centered on a bit of craftiness, stealthy pursuits, and tactical surprises. Regardless of the territory, enemies, or obstacles, the best of hunters stop at nothing until they accomplish the task set before them. This often earns them reputations garnering both fear and a begrudging respect from allies and enemies alike. Security and Survival A hunter’s success is defined by skill in their trade, though there are few similarities as to how they choose to make their living. Some are protectorates of a particular territory or populace, such as a police officer or sentry. Others make their way as bounty hunters, working solo or as a member of a guild. Some still join the military as scouts and tacticians. This level of self-reliance also means hunters choose their allies and companions carefully, as sometimes the survival of the squad may come down to the hunter as the first—and possibly the last—line of defense. Creating a Hunter As you create your hunter, consider how they use their skills in their everyday life. Is it tied to a particular profession? Are they a bounty hunter or perhaps just a wandering survivalist? Then, choose where they learned their skills and how they’ve come to apply them with their abilities as an esper. Did they achieve esper genesis at a young age and master their skills afterward, or did it perhaps happen in reverse when they began as a scout who suddenly became attuned? You should also decide on your chosen type of enemy. What is the connection between you and your specialized choice of prey? Was your life or one of someone important to you ruined by machines? Was your home destroyed by beasts? Were you always exceptional at tracking and confronting the criminal element? Ability Scores Dexterity should be your highest ability score followed by Wisdom. Strength is useful for some melee combatants and to offset recoil for larger firearms. The Hunter Level Proficiency Bonus Features Techniques Known Tech Slots per Technique Rank 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 1st +2 Expert Wayfarer, Know Your Target — — — — — — 2nd +2 Fighting Style, Forging, Hunter’s Mark 2 2 — — — — 3rd +2 Hunter Archetype, Objective Scanner 3 3 — — — — 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 3 — — — — 5th +3 Extra Attack 4 4 2 — — — 6th +3 Favored Quarry 4 4 2 — — — 7th +3 Hunter Archetype feature 5 4 3 — — — 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement, Fast Movement 5 4 3 — — — 9th +4 — 6 4 3 2 — — 10th +4 Hide in Plain Sight 6 4 3 2 — — 11th +4 Hunter Archetype feature 7 4 3 3 — — 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 7 4 3 3 — — 13th +5 — 8 4 3 3 1 — 14th +5 Vanish 8 4 3 3 1 — 15th +5 Hunter Archetype feature 9 4 3 3 2 — 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 9 4 3 3 2 — 17th +6 — 10 4 3 3 3 1 18th +6 Blind Fighting 10 4 3 3 3 1 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 11 4 3 3 3 2 20th +6 Slayer 11 4 3 3 3 2 Class Features As a hunter, you have the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice : 1d10 per hunter level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per hunter level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: Disguise kit or Vehicles (Planetary) Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity Skills: Choose three from Acrobatics, Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Perception, Stealth, Survival, and Xenobiology Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) military jacket or (b) armor jacket (a) two simple melee weapons or (b) two shortblades or (c) arm pistol with 12 shots of ammunition (a) a soldier’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack (a) an autopistol or (b) an autorifle (a) a hunter’s rig Expert Wayfarer At 1st level, you are trained to always mind your surroundings, and you react swiftly when faced with a threat. This grants you the following benefits: You ignore difficult terrain. You have advantage on initiative rolls. On your first turn during combat, you have advantage on attack rolls against creatures that have not yet acted. In addition, you are skilled at navigating the wilderness. You gain the following benefits when traveling in a particular area for at least one hour: Difficult terrain doesn’t slow your group’s travel. Your group can’t become lost unless through non-mundane means. Even when you are engaged in another activity while traveling (such as navigating, searching, or tracking), you remain alert to danger. If you are traveling alone, you can move stealthily at a normal pace. If you are in a location or structure with multiple floors or levels, you can tell which level you are on. While tracking other creatures, you also learn their exact number, their sizes, and how long ago they passed through the area. Know Your Target At 1st level, you study and plan ahead when pursuing a certain type of foe chosen as your quarry. Choose a type of quarry to pursue: aberrations, automatons, beasts, constructs, cyborgs, dragons, golems, proteans, monstrosities, netherants, plants, or primordials. Alternatively you can choose two types of humanoid (such as Aluphax, Lorendi, or Matokai). You gain the following benefits. You have advantage to Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to track your chosen enemies. Whenever you make an Intelligence (Lore) check or Intelligence (Xenobiology) check to recall information about your chosen quarry, you are considered proficient in both Lore and Xenobiology and add double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of your normal proficiency bonus. You have advantage on Charisma (Deception) and Charisma (Intimidation) rolls when dealing with your quarry. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made when hiding from your quarry. You can choose a new type of quarry when you complete a long rest, after which the benefits of the previous quarry type are lost. Fighting Style At 2nd level, you adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again. Defense While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. Dueling When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon. Gunnery When you are wielding a firearm with the recoil property, that firearm’s recoil value is reduced by 1 (to a minimum of zero). Point Shooting When making a ranged weapon attack while you are within 5 feet of a hostile creature, you do not have disadvantage on the attack roll. Sharpshooting You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons. Two-Weapon Fighting When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack. Forging When you reach 2nd level, you can attune yourself to a hunter’s rig, which allows you to perform various techniques to produce astonishing effects. Hunter’s Rig You have a personalized set of sorium materials and micro-drones, often referred to as a rig, which is used to activate and implement your techniques. You are fitted with an implant that allows you to communicate directly with your rig. A hunter’s rig usually takes the form of a utility belt, a small carrying case, a pack expansion, or an armor attachment. With your reaction, you can sense the general location of your rig as long as it is within 500 miles of you. You can sense the direction and can confirm the exact distance once you’re within 1000 feet. Regardless of distance, you can use your bonus action and expend a tech slot to call upon your rig to phase shift instantly into your hand. At 5th level, summoning your rig no longer requires you to expend a tech slot. If your rig is permanently lost or destroyed, you can forge a new one by spending 8 hours of time and 500 cu in materials. This can be performed during a long rest. Once a new rig is forged, your previous rig ceases to function and becomes a set of ordinary survival supplies. Tech Slots The Hunter table shows how many tech slots you have to use for techniques. To activate a technique, you must expend a tech slot of the technique’s rank or higher. You regain all expended tech slots when you finish a long rest. For example, if you know the rank 1 technique sensory jammer and have a rank 1 and a rank 2 tech slot available, you can use sensory jammer using either slot. Powers Known of Rank 1 and Higher You know two rank 1 techniques of your choice from the hunter powers list. The Techniques Known column of the Hunter table shows when you learn more hunter techniques. Each of these techniques must be of a rank for which you have tech slots. For instance, when you reach 5th level in this class, you can learn one new rank 1 or rank 2 technique. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the hunter techniques you know and replace it with another technique from the hunter powers list, which also must be of a level for which you have tech slots. Forging Ability Wisdom is your forging ability for your hunter techniques, calling upon your instincts and expertise to implement your powers. You use your Wisdom whenever a technique refers to your forging ability. In addition, you use you Wisdom modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a technique you use and when making an attack roll with one. Forging save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier Forging attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier Hunter’s Mark Starting at 2nd level, you can use a bonus action to scan a creature and mark it for pursuit and subdual. Choose a creature within 90 feet that you can see. You deal an extra 1d6 damage to the target when you hit it with a weapon attack. If the target is a favored quarry (see the Favored Quarry feature) or one currently chosen from the Know Your Target feature, the extra damage increases to 1d8. In addition, you have advantage on any Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check you make to find the target, regardless of their creature type. This effect lasts for 1 hour or until your concentration ends (as if concentrating on an esper power). If the target drops to 0 hit points before the effects of this feature ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn of yours to mark a new creature. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Hunter Archetype At 3rd level, you choose to adopt a particular set of practices that define your trade as a hunter. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level, and again at 7th, 11th, and 15th level. Objective Scanner Beginning at 3rd level, you expand the use of your rig to aid in tracking your quarry. To do so, you spend a tech slot and spend one uninterrupted minute in concentration (as if concentrating on an esper power). Once you do so, you learn whether any creatures of your chosen quarry type is present within 10 miles of your location. This feature reveals the type of quarry present, how many there are if in a group, and their general direction and distance from you (in miles). If you detect multiple groups of your quarry type within range, you receive separate information for each group. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Extra Attack Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. Favored Quarry At 6th level, you gain significant experience studying, tracking, and hunting a certain type of quarry. Ideally, your choice should reflect the types of threats you’ve encountered throughout your career as a hunter. Choose a creature type available from the Know Your Target feature. You gain all the benefits for this chosen quarry that you would normally gain against one from the Know Your Target feature. The benefits gained against this quarry type do not expire. You can also choose a new type of quarry with the Know Your Target feature without losing the benefits gained against your favored quarry. In addition, when you gain this feature, you learn one language of your choice. This can be any language you wish, though typically it would be one spoken by your favored quarry or other creatures associated with it. Fast Movement Starting at 8th level, when you’re not wearing heavy armor, you can use the dash action as a bonus action during your turn. Hide in Plain Sight Beginning at 10th level, you can camouflage yourself by remaining still within your surroundings. When you attempt to hide on your turn and do not move on that turn, your proficiency bonus is doubled when you make your Dexterity (Stealth) check to hide. If you are not proficient in Stealth, you instead add your proficiency bonus to your normal roll. Until the start of your next turn, creatures that attempt to detect you take a penalty to their Wisdom (Perception) checks equal to half your hunter level rounded down. You lose this benefit if you move, fall prone, take an action or reaction, or some other effect causes you to no longer be hidden. If you are still hidden and do not move on your next turn, you continue to gain this benefit until you are detected. Vanish Starting at 14th level, you can use the Hide action as a bonus action on your turn. Also, you can’t be tracked by mundane means, neither physically nor digitally, unless you choose to leave a trail. Blind Fighting At 18th level, you gain intuitive combat senses that help you fight creatures you can’t see. When you attack a creature you can’t see, your inability to see it doesn’t impose disadvantage on your attack rolls against it. You are also aware of the location of any invisible creature within 30 feet of you, provided that the creature isn’t hidden from you and you aren’t blinded or deafened. Slayer At 20th level, you become an unparalleled hunter of your enemies. Once on each of your turns, you can add your Wisdom modifier to the attack roll or the damage roll of an attack you make against one of your favored quarries or one currently chosen by the Know Your Target feature. You can choose to use this feature before or after the roll, but before any effects of the roll are applied. Hunter Archetypes At 3rd level, a hunter gains the Hunter’s Archetype feature. Your choice represents your tradecraft by which you operate and utilize your abilities. Some hunters specialize in subduing and killing an enemy, making them effective at collecting bounties and contracts. Others focus on their skills in shadowing and investigation, making for a skilled tracker or guardian. Mechinor Stalker Vanguard

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

