# Jaeger

**description**: An unassuming human pounces in the night, his blade and revolver at the ready. A gunshot, followed by the sound of metal against flesh and the splattering of blood over cobblestone. He snickers before plunging his blade anew into his battered prey. An elegant manikin vaults atop a maddened monster, before putting the barrel of her cannon against its skull and pulling the trigger. She always loved explosions. Battleaxe in hand, a massive tiefling brutally decapitates a beast, then leaps towards another, impaling the silvered weapon in the creature’s chest and ripping a gashing wound from neck to groin. Jaegers are defined by their efficiency in battle, using their mastery over both steel and gunpowder to lay waste to all who oppose them. More than just soldiers, their skills represent the last wall of defense of a world fated to extinction; they are unstoppable and unbreakable. They strike fear in the heart of their foes, and bring hope to those they protect. Engineered Perfection In the ease and safety that contemporary advancements bring, city dwellers frequently forget how fortunate their lives are. They have all but forgotten the life of pain that would befall them if the system failed. Which is precisely what took place in Luyarnha. The urbanites were left defenseless when the scourge swept the streets of the city, snapping like twigs in the face of such ferocity. While the denizens of the town struggled against insurmountable odds, the church and the nobility didn’t remain inert, instead concentrating their efforts to engineer the ideal weapon, something capable of annihilating the beasts plaguing the city. This weapon came to be known as the jaegers. Jaegers thrive in the savagery of the hunt. Their reflexes more honed than that of mere mortals, jaegers are capable of dodging the most vicious of blows and using that momentum to drive their blade deep into the heart of their prey. A jaeger’s thirst for battle is endless; only in inaction can they experience fatigue. They are the perfect weapon against the nightmarish tides of beasts and the sole reason Luyarnha still stands. Bonds of Blood One who hunts beasts is a “hunter”, as they are commonly called by civilized society, but few hunters have the jaeger class. Coming from all walks of life, jaegers blend in with their communities, only unleashing their abilities in times of need. They act as guardians for people who are unable to defend themselves, and they serve as the bloody sword of vengeance in a world that is hell-bent on destroying itself. Life in the city-state of Luyarnha is fraught with peril: gang warfare, infectious madness, and harrowing beasts. Amidst this chaos, jaegers are the first to charge into battle so that their brothers and sisters can survive to live another day. Jaegers rarely leave their home city of Luyarnha; they would rather die than see it fall to the scourge. Following the jaeger's creed—'survive together, or die together'—they never hunt by themselves unless forced to. The nights can be brutal and the beasts are relentless; against such a ferocious onslaught, only a united front can hope to survive. As a result, jaegers are aware of the importance of teamwork and never charge into battle alone, save to retrieve fallen allies. The bonds formed during the hunts are stronger than those of many families. Blood is thicker than water, and the gods know that blood is shed when the hunt rages on. “There is nowhere left to hide. We know you now. We shall hunt you in every plane of existence. We shall cleanse these walls, then we shall cleanse the world. So look upon me now, beast, and know your slayer.” —Steinhardt, The First Hunter. Creating a Jaeger Think about the nature of your abilities and what gave rise to them as you construct your jaeger character. Were you one of the numerous orphans whose bodies were experimented on in the jaeger research project? Did you voluntarily join the ranks of hunters, or were you abducted and brainwashed into the ideal soldier? Alternatively, you might have defied the established order and joined the jaegers by a different route, perhaps after finding an eldritch carving and engraving it on your flesh. You might be self-taught—a loner who learned combat skills, tracking, or even a magical connection to the cosmos through the necessity of surviving the hunts. Alternatively, you might have learned from the comrades you now consider family. What fuels you? Is it a visceral hatred of the beasts that slaughtered your loved ones? Or is it a reflection of your desire to stop these monsters' devastation, committing yourself to reining in their carnage? Is your adventuring career a continuation of your work in annihilating the scourge of beasts, or a significant change? What made you join a band of adventurers? Do you enjoy the break from the hunt that new allies provide, or do you find it difficult to teach them the jaeger ways? Quick Build You can make a jaeger quickly by following these guidelines. First, make Dexterity your highest ability score, followed by Constitution, and then Intelligence. Second, pick a background, preferably one that involves the city of Luyarnha. Level Proficiency Bonus Focus Points Momentum Die Features 1st 2 1 — Flexible Combatant, Focus, Eldritch Hunter 2nd 2 2 1d6 Momentum, Fighting Style 3rd 2 2 1d6 Jaeger Chapter, Piercing Gaze 4th 2 2 1d6 Ability Score Improvement, Seasoned Survivor 5th 3 3 1d6 Extra Attack 6th 3 3 1d6 Hunter's Pursuit 7th 3 3 1d6 Jaeger Chapter feature 8th 3 3 1d6 Ability Score Improvement 9th 4 4 1d6 Evasion 10th 4 4 1d6 Ability Score Improvement 11th 4 4 1d8 Lethal Tempo 12th 4 4 1d8 Ability Score Improvement 13th 5 5 1d8 Relentless Pursuit 14th 5 5 1d8 Jaeger Chapter feature 15th 5 5 1d8 Inured to Madness 16th 5 5 1d8 Ability Score Improvement 17th 6 6 1d10 Jaeger Chapter feature 18th 6 6 1d10 Eternal Watch 19th 6 6 1d10 Ability Score Improvement 20th 6 6 1d10 Always Ready Class Features As a jaeger, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per jaeger level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per jaeger level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor, medium armor Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Dexterity, Intelligence Skills: Choose two from Acrobatics, Arcana, Athletics, History, Investigation, Medicine, Nature, Perception, Religion, Sleight of Hand, Stealth, and Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: Two martial weapons (a) a pistol and pouch of 20 bullets or (b) any two simple weapons (a) scale mail or (b) leather armor (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack Flexible Combatant Beginning at 1st level, you can draw or stow two one-handed weapons when you would normally be able to draw or stow only one, and you can reload weapons with the loading, reload, or barrel properties without a free hand. Additionally, if you are carrying a one-handed melee weapon in one hand, and a one-handed ranged weapon in the other, you do not have disadvantage from being within 5 feet of a hostile creature on attacks made with that ranged weapon. Focus Starting at 1st level, your concentration during battle is razor sharp, letting you keenly focus during critical moments. You have 1 Focus Point. You gain additional Focus Points at 2nd, 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level, as shown on the Jaeger table. You can expend Focus Points to use Focus Arts. You learn two such Focus Arts: Weapon Parry and Dodge Step. You learn one additional Focus Art of your choice at 2nd, 7th, 13th, and 17th level. Your Focus Art options are detailed at the end of the class description. You regain all expended Focus Points when you finish a short or long rest. When you roll a 20 on a saving throw or an attack roll against a hostile creature, you regain 1 Focus Point. When you roll initiative and have no Focus Points remaining, you regain 1 Focus Point. Weapon Parry Focus Art, reaction As a reaction to being hit by a creature you can see within range of a weapon you are holding, you can expend 1 Focus Point to make a special weapon attack against that creature. This attack does no damage, but instead blocks an amount of damage from the incoming attack equal to the weapon's damage roll (including your ability modifier), unless your attack roll is a 1. On a 20, any weapon damage dice are rolled twice (like a critical hit would be), and if this total fully blocks the incoming attack, the target is stunned until the start of its next turn. Dodge Step Focus Art, reaction As a reaction to being attacked by a creature you can see, if your speed is not 0, you can expend 1 Focus Point to move 5 feet without provoking opportunity attacks and make a Dexterity saving throw with a DC equal to the attacker's attack roll (including modifiers). On a success, you evade completely and take no damage. On a failure, you halve the attack's damage against you. Eldritch Hunter Also at 1st level, when you make an ability check to track or identify an aberration, celestial, fiend, monstrosity, or undead, you can add your proficiency bonus to the ability check. If you are already proficient in the ability check, you can double your proficiency bonus. Momentum Starting at 2nd level, any time you expend a Focus Point, you gain 1 Momentum die, which is a d6. This die changes as you gain jaeger levels, as shown in the Jaeger table. You can have a maximum number of Momentum dice equal to your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Dexterity modifier (whichever is higher). Whenever you gain a Momentum die, or if you attack or end your turn within 5 feet of a hostile creature, all of your Momentum dice last until the end of your next turn. While you have 1 or more Momentum dice, you can expend all of your Momentum dice to execute a Finisher. You know the Brutal Finisher. You learn one additional Finisher (listed at the end of the class description) of your choice at 4th, 6th, 8th, and 12th level, and may gain others through Jaeger Chapter features. Note: Momentum functions like a barbarian’s rage —as long as you meet one of the criteria, you keep all your Momentum dice until the end of your next turn. Did you gain a Momentum die? If yes, keep your momentum dice. Did you attack a hostile creature? If yes, keep your Momentum dice. Did you end your turn within 5 feet of a hostile creature? If yes, keep your Momentum dice. Brutal Finisher Finisher, special When you hit a creature with an attack, you can expend all of your Momentum dice and add them to the damage roll. If you reduce the target to 0 hit points with this Finisher, or the target is reduced to 0 hit points before the start of your next turn, you regain 1 Focus Point. Fighting Style At 2nd level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again. Dueling When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon. Great Weapon Fighting When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit. Flexible Fighting You can engage in two-weapon fighting with any weapons you can wield in one hand, including one-handed ranged weapons and weapons without the light property. When you do so, you gain a +1 bonus to the damage rolls of both weapons. Focused Fighting You learn an additional Focus Art, and you gain 1 additional Focus Point. Two-Weapon Fighting When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack. Jaeger Chapter When you reach 3rd level, you choose a jaeger chapter that suits the means by which you intend to further your powers. Select one of the following: Absolute Chapter , Heretic Chapter , Marauder Chapter , Salvation Chapter , or Sanguine Chapter . Piercing Gaze Also at 3rd level, you gain the ability to activate a magical sight at will (no action required), allowing you to effortlessly pierce the gloom and see what lurks within. For 1 hour, you gain darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, its range increases to 120 feet. This vision lets you see normally in dim light and darkness, both magical and nonmagical. When you reach 7th level, you also gain the effect of see invisibility for the duration, and when you reach 13th level, you additionally gain the effect of true seeing for the duration. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 10th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Seasoned Survivor At 4th level, you gain advantage on Investigation checks made to find secret passages, interpret markings or messages left by other creatures on walls or surfaces, or determine the fate of creatures from blood stains and remains. Extra Attack Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. Hunter's Pursuit Starting at 6th level, at the start of your turn, you can expend 1 Focus Point to immediately move up to half your speed without using any of your movement and without provoking opportunity attacks. Evasion Beginning at 9th level, you can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain area effects, such as a red dragon's fiery breath or an ice storm spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. Lethal Tempo Starting at 11th level, the first time you hit a creature on your turn, you gain 1 Momentum die. You gain 1 additional Momentum die any time you reduce a creature to 0 hit points. Relentless Pursuit Starting at 13th level, when you use your Hunter's Pursuit, if you end your movement next to a hostile creature, you regain the expended Focus Point. Inured to Madness At 15th level, you gain advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened, and against effects that cause madness. If you fail a saving throw against madness, you can expend 1 Focus Point to reroll the die. You must use the new roll. Eternal Watch Starting at 18th level, you are always under the effect of your Piercing Gaze. Always Ready Starting at 20th level, once per round (beginning at the start of each of your turns), you gain one additional reaction, which you can only use on a Focus Art that requires a reaction (such as Weapon Parry or Dodge Step). When you expend a Focus Point on this special reaction, you immediately regain the expended Focus Point. Chapters "Your foe is well equipped, well trained, battle-hardened. He believes his blasphemous god is on his side. Let him believe what he will. We have the jaegers on ours." —Vicar Priscilla Absolute Chapter Heretic Chapter Marauder Chapter Salvation Chapter Sanguine Chapter Additional Focus Arts Aerial Vault Focus Art, special When you make a jump, you can expend 1 Focus Point to double your jumping distance for that jump, and you can ignore difficult terrain until the end of your turn. When you use this Focus Art, the maximum distance you can jump isn’t limited by your walking speed. Elemental Art Focus Art, bonus action As a bonus action, you expend 1 Focus Point and touch a weapon you're carrying. Choose between acid, cold, fire, or lightning. For 1 minute, the weapon deals that damage type instead of its normal type. Focus Mind Focus Art, reaction As a reaction to making a saving throw against being charmed, frightened, or having your mind read or influenced, you can expend 1 Focus Point to gain advantage on the roll. If you already have advantage on the roll, you can reroll one of the dice once. Flourish Focus Art, bonus action As a bonus action, you can expend 1 Focus Point and gain 1 additional Momentum die (gaining 2 Momentum dice in total, which includes the die gained through the Momentum feature from expending the Focus Point on Flourish). I Don't Want To Be Eaten Today Focus Art, reaction As a reaction to becoming grappled or restrained by an effect that has an escape DC or to making a contested roll against these conditions, you can expend 1 Focus Point to attempt to immediately escape the effect, making an Athletics or Acrobatics check against the escape DC, or to gain advantage on the contested roll. Jaeger's Rush Focus Art, bonus action As a bonus action, you can expend 1 Focus Point to take the Dash action. Jaeger's Assessment Focus Art, bonus action As a bonus action, you can expend 1 Focus Point to make an Investigation check against a creature you can see within 60 feet of you, contested by its Deception check. On success, you learn its creature type, AC, any resistances or immunities it has to damage or conditions, and any spells it is under the effect of. Alternatively, when you take this bonus action, you can take the Search action. Finishers Breaking Blow Finisher, special When you hit a creature with an attack, you can expend all of your Momentum dice to force the target to make a saving throw, suffering a condition for 1 minute on a failure. The DC of the save is 8 + your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice) + your proficiency bonus. The type of saving throw and the condition depend on the number of Momentum dice you have when you use this Finisher. You can choose to inflict a condition that requires fewer Momentum dice than you expend, but all Momentum dice are expended regardless of the condition selected. The target can repeat its saving throw against the condition at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. If the condition inflicted is Prone, they do not need to pass a subsequent save and can end the condition by standing as normal instead. If the target fails its initial save against the effect, you regain 1 Focus Point. Momentum Dice Saving Throw Condition 1 Strength Prone 2 Constitution Blinded 3 Strength Restrained 4 Constitution Stunned 5+ Constitution Paralyzed Chasing Finisher Finisher, bonus action As a bonus action, you expend all of your Momentum dice to move 10 feet per die expended before making a melee weapon attack. On a hit, add the expended Momentum dice to the attack’s damage roll. If you move at least 30 feet using the Finisher, you regain 1 Focus Point. Hemorrhaging Wound Finisher, special When you hit a creature with an attack, you can expend all of your Momentum dice to rend a vicious bleeding wound. At the end of each of the creature's turns, it loses hit points equal to the Momentum dice expended. Each time it takes damage from this effect, the number of dice of damage it takes at the end of its next turn is reduced by 1, and the bleeding stops when the number of dice would be reduced to 0. A bleeding creature can make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, after taking the damage, ending the effect on a success. The DC of the save is 8 + your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice) + your proficiency bonus + half the number of dice remaining, rounded down. Applying a new bleed while the target is still bleeding does not stack, but instead refreshes the number of dice of damage taken from the bleed to the higher of the two values. Opportunistic Shot Finisher, reaction As a reaction when a creature within 20 feet of you becomes paralyzed, restrained, or stunned, you can expend all of your Momentum dice and make a single weapon attack with a firearm you are holding. On a hit, the target takes damage equal to the weapon's damage roll plus the expended Momentum dice, it is knocked prone, and you regain 1 Focus Point. Vicious Finisher Finisher, bonus action As a bonus action, you expend all of your Momentum dice to form a spectral beast claw around one hand and make a melee weapon attack with it against a creature within 5 feet of you. You can use your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls of this attack. On a hit, the target takes magical slashing damage equal to 1d12 + your Strength modifier + the Momentum dice expended. This attack has a higher critical hit range based on the number of Momentum dice expended, reducing the roll needed by 2 for each die, up to a maximum of scoring a critical hit on a 10-20 with 5 Momentum dice. If the Finisher is a critical hit, you regain 1 Focus Point. Volley Finisher Finisher, bonus action As a bonus action while you are holding a firearm, you can expend all of your Momentum dice to reload and fire a spray of shots at blinding speed. Each creature in a 30-foot cone must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC = 8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus). On a failure, a creature takes piercing damage equal to the Momentum dice expended. If the Finisher damages 2 or more creatures, you regain 1 Focus Point. Clarification: Momentum Dice Whenever you add the number of Momentum dice expended to damage, roll the expended dice and add the total rolled to the damage, not the number of dice itself.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

