# Judge

**description**: Investigator The world is evil, and secrets and rituals occur behind closed doors in the guise of nightfall within each city or village. You have set your quest to rid this evil by any means necessary. The means justify the end, and violence is but a mere tool of punishment handed out to the guilty. You are both the judge and executioner of those who have taken to the dark arts. Your eyes have witnessed hundreds of suspected magic users burned at a stake and tortured by pitiless investigators. The truth shall reveal itself through pain and blood, but how many of those you convicted were genuinely innocent or completely guilty? Obscured by the puritanical education and oath you have sworn to, you now begin to see the world's truth. For all the evil you have destroyed, it has not changed the course of humankind. Every human has both good and evil within them. It is time to change your course and discover the true nature of evil and if you have sentenced those who have partaken in it. Level P. Bonus Features Spells Known Cantrips Known 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 1st +2 - - - - - - - - 2nd +2 Spellcasting 2 2 2 - - - - 3rd +2 Divine Protection, Book of Sins, Addenda I, Deep knowledge 3 3 3 - - - - 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5 4 3 - - - - 5th +3 - 6 4 4 2 - - - 6th +3 Zealous Nature, Book of Sins, Addenda II 7 4 4 3 - - - 7th +3 Book of Sins, Extension 8 4 4 3 - - - 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9 4 4 3 - - - 9th +4 Book of Sins, Extension 10 4 4 3 2 - - 10th +4 Book of Sins, Addenda III 11 5 4 3 2 - - 11th +4 Book of Sins, Extension 12 5 4 3 3 - - 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 12 5 4 3 3 - - 13th +5 Book of Sins, Addenda IV 13 5 4 3 3 1 - 14th +5 Arcana Inquisitionis 13 5 4 3 3 1 - 15th +5 Book of Sins, Extension 14 5 4 3 3 2 - 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 14 5 4 3 3 2 - 17th +6 Book of Sins, Extension 15 5 4 3 3 3 1 18th +6 Arcana Inquisitionis, Addenda 15 5 4 3 3 3 1 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 15 5 4 3 3 3 2 20th +6 Ultimus Justiciar 15 6 4 3 3 3 2 Class Features Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per Judge level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light Armor Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: Calligrapher's supplies Saving Throws: Wisdom, Charisma Skills: Investigation, plus choose two between Arcana, History, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, Persuasion and Religion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a handaxe of Purification and a hand crossbow or (b) a Hand crossbow of Purification and any light weapon A studded leather armor and 20 crossbow bolts Book of Sins and Gavel (a) a scholar's pack or (b) an explorer's pack Level 1 Enemies of the Inquisition: you hunt down dark sorcerers and the foul creatures they associate with. Certain class features will have additional effects against creatures in this list: Spellcasters: for the purpose of this class’s features and spells, a Spellcaster is defined as any creature that can cast Spells or that has at least one melee or ranged spell attack on its stat block. Fiends, undeads and monstrosities. Weapon of Purification: this weapon (traditionally a Handaxe or a Hand Crossbow) has been anointed with sacred oils and inscribed with mystical sigils. You can use your Intelligence modifier for attack and damage rolls with these weapons, instead of the Strength or Dexterity one, as long as they are Light weapons. Judgment: When you wield at least one Weapon of Purification, you can attempt to pass Judgment on a creature within 30ft of you. As part of the Attack action against a creature, make an Investigation skill check with a DC equal to 5 + the creature’s CR (rounded up). You have advantage on this check if you are targeting an Enemy of the Inquisition. Certitude: If you succeed, you recognize the creature’s crimes. You are armed with an encyclopedic knowledge of the Inquisitorial Records and you recall how to exploit their vices and weaknesses. For the next minute, you gain the benefits of the spell Hunter’s Mark against this creature; you don’t need to maintain concentration on it and you can’t move it to another creature if this one dies. Doubt: If you fail, your doubts make you falter - maybe you are unsure about the creature’s nature, or you fail to recall the prescribed methods to dispatch them. Your attacks against that creature have disadvantage until the start of your next turn. Practice makes perfect: Select the place where you forged your path as an apprentice: Attorney of the Inquisition Courts When the Inquisitorial Courts demand justice, the Judge wields it using their favorite weapon, The Gavel. There is magic within households, behind churches, and in dark alleys. The Judge must locate this black magic and destroy its user. Gavel: As bonus action you can use your Gavel to smite an enemy that can see it within 15 ft of you. The target must succeed on a DEX SAVE or take 1d6 Radiant damage and be blinded until the end of your next turn. Examiner: You gain proficiency in Intimidation. If you already have proficiency with that skill, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Intimidation check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for this skill. Inquisition Inspector Behind the lavish trials and public sermons lies the true work of a Judge of the Inquisition Courts. The art of interrogating suspected heretics is a skill that not many have. Distinguishing falsehoods is one challenge, but to extract the truth is entirely different. Facing the Book: As bonus action you present your Book of Sins to sear the flesh of an enemy that can see it within 15 ft of you. The target must succeed on a DEX SAVE or lose its resistance and/or immunity to fire damage until the end of your next turn. The creature then takes 1d6 Fire Damage. Investigator: You gain proficiency in Insight. If you already have proficiency with that skill, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Insight check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for this skill. Level 2 Spellcasting By the time you reach 2nd level, you have learned to use the tools of your enemies to hunt them down. Spell Slots The Judge of Absolution table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your Judge of Absolution spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these spells, you must expend a slot of the spell's level or higher. You regain all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest. For example, if you know the 1st-level spell Alarm and have a 1st-level and a 2nd-level spell slot available, you can cast Alarm using either slot. Spells Known of 1st Level and Higher You know two 1st-level spells of your choice from the Judge of Absolution spell list. The Spells Known column of the Judge of Absolution table shows when you learn more Judge of Absolution spells of your choice. Each of these spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For instance, when you reach 5th level in this class, you can learn one new spell of 1st or 2nd level. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the Judge of Absolution spells you know and replace it with another spell from the Judge of Absolution spell list, which also must be of a level for which you have spell slots. Spellcasting Ability Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your Judge of Absolution spells, since your magic draws on your attunement to nature. You use your Intelligence whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a Judge of Absolution spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one. Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Spellcasting Focus and Somatic Components At 2nd level, you can use one of your Weapon of Purifications as a focus to cast spells that require a Material component. You can cast spells that require a Somatic component from the Judge of Absolution spell lists even if you have both hands occupied, as long as both hands are holding a Weapon of Purification. Urban combatant: when you are wearing light armor or no armor and are wielding a Weapon of Purification in each hand, you can add your Intelligence modifier to your AC. No matter what armor you wear, as long as you are wielding a Weapon of Purification in each hand, you gain the following bonus: when you take the Attack action and make an attack with a Light weapon, you can use a bonus action to attack with a hand crossbow you are holding. Being within 5 ft. of an hostile creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on your attacks with hand crossbows. Level 3 Rituals of Purification: you have learned the secrets required to create a Weapon of Purification. You hold the weapon in your hand(s) and perform a ritual that lasts 1 hour (that can be completed during a Short Rest); after that, the weapon gains all the benefits of a Weapon of Purification on top of its original ones. You can never have more than 2 Weapons of Purifications at the same time. Divine Protection: The Gods help those who help themselves. You learn the Shield spell; this spell doesn’t count against the total spells you can know. Book of Sins, Addenda I: You enhance your Inquisition manual with more tools. Choose one: Purge: You learn the Firebolt cantrip. This cantrip doesn’t count against the total of spells you can know. Sphere of Contempt: You gain a +1 bonus to your AC against attacks from a creature that is an Enemy of the Inquisition. Barrier of Purity: You learn the Mage Armor spell. This spell doesn’t count against the total of spells you can know. Torch of Truth: As an Action, you can cause your Weapon of Purification to shed bright light in a 60 ft radius for 1 hour whenever you wield it. While inside this radius, you have advantage on Perception checks that rely on sight and you can’t be surprised by Enemies of the Inquisition. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Deep knowledge: you know 1 additional spell from the Judge of Absolution List. Tools of the Inquisition: Enemies of the Inquisition have disadvantage on the saves to avoid the effects of your Gavel or Facing the Book features. New Evidence: as a Reaction when you fail to pass Judgment against a creature, you can reroll one of the dice from the Investigation check, potentially causing the skill check to succeed. Shroud of Conviction: when you reduce an Enemy of Inquisition to 0 hit points, you gain temporary hit points equal to your level of Judge of Absolution + your Intelligence modifier. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Level 4 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 5 Extra Attack: Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. Level 6 Zealous Nature: You gain the ability to cast the Detect Evil and Good spell at will. Book of Sins, Addenda II: you further enhance your Inquisition manual with more tools. Choose one of these (or one from the previous Addenda lists): Tortured Soul: As an action, you can expend a Spell slot to choose a creature that you have successfully passed Judgment upon within 30 ft of you. The creature must succeed on a WIS SAVE or become Incapacitated until the start of your next turn. They also suffer 1d6 Radiant damage per spell level slot. On a successful save, they still receive the Radiant damage but are not Incapacitated. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Improved Gavel: increases the damage from your Gavel feature to 2d6 radiant damage. Improved Facing the Book: increases the damage from your Facing the Book feature to 2d6 fire damage. Sentenced to the Flames: As an Action, you can expend a Spell slot to choose a creature that you have successfully passed Judgment upon within 30 ft of you. The creature ignites, radiating flames in a 15ft radius around itself. Every hostile creature within radius (including the creature) must succeed on a CON SAVE or take 2d4 fire damage per spell level slot (or half as much on a successful save). Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Sacrata: You gain resistance to fire damage. Level 7 Book of Sins, Extension: you can choose another feature from one of the Book of Sins Addenda available to you. Keen Eye: Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Investigation check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for this skill. Level 8 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 9 Book of Sins, Extension: you can choose another feature from one of the Book of Sins Addenda available to you. Level 10 Book of Sins, Addenda III: you further enhance your Inquisition manual with more tools. Choose one of these (or one from the previous Addenda lists): Gavel of Light: when you use your Gavel feature against an Enemy of the Inquisition, you benefit from the effects of half cover against their attacks until the end of your next turn. Soulfire: when you use your Facing the Book feature against an Enemy of the Inquisition, on a failed save they become vulnerable to fire damage until the end of your next turn. Edictum Infernus: As an Action, you can expend a Spell slot to choose a creature that you have successfully passed Judgment upon within 30ft of you. The creature must succeed on a WIS SAVE or become visibly branded with a Mark of Purification until the start of your next turn. While it is marked, you control the creature’s movement during its turn; any time the marked creature moves within 5 ft of another hostile creature, they both receive 1d4 Radiant damage per spell level slot. The effect can only trigger once per other hostile creature. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Lex Talionis: As a reaction when one of your allies that you can see within 15ft is about to suffer damage from an attack, you can choose an enemy that you can see within 15ft. The enemy also suffers the damage. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Purging Barrage: As an Action, you can expend a Spell slot to choose a hostile creature that you have successfully passed Judgment upon within 30ft of you. The creature must succeed on a DEX SAVE or be pierced by smoldering nails, taking 1d6 Fire damage per spell level slot (or half as much on a successful save). If the save is failed, the creature is also affected by Dispel Magic, except the level of effects dispelled is based on the spell slot used. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Level 11 Book of Sins, Extension: you can choose another feature from one of the Book of Sins Addenda available to you. Tribunal of Faith: when you pass Judgment, you can choose to target any number of creatures within range instead of just one. In this case, make a single Investigation check with a DC based on the highest CR creature among the ones selected. All of them have to be Enemies of the Inquisition to roll with advantage. The effects of the Judgment are applied to every enemy targeted. Level 12 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 13 Book of Sins, Addenda IV: you further enhance your Inquisition manual with more tools. Choose one of these (or one from the previous Addenda lists): Voice of Sententia: As an Action, you can expend a Spell slot to choose a creature that you have successfully passed Judgment upon within 30ft of you. The creature must succeed on a WIS SAVE or become Stunned until the start of your next turn. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can choose to target an additional creature. Each creature must be within 5ft of the original one. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Mea Culpa: You gain the ability to learn from your mistakes, cleansing yourself and restoring your sense of justice. As a bonus action, you regain hit points equal to Judge of Absolution level plus your Intelligence modifier and remove any curses, diseases, or poisons affecting you. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Justiciars Chains: As an Action, you can expend a Spell slot to choose a creature that you have successfully passed Judgment upon within 30ft of you. The creature must succeed on an INT SAVE or become chained. While they are chained, they are restrained and incapacitated. The effect lasts for 1 round per spell level, but the chained creature can choose to become repentant at the start of each of its turns. In that case, the creature is no longer chained, but the Judge of Absolution controls the creature’s action for that turn, then the effect ends. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Deeper knowledge: you know 2 additional spells from the Judge of Absolution List. Level 14 Arcana Inquisitionis: Choose two spells from any other class, A spell you choose must be of a level you can cast, as shown on the Judge of Absolution table, or a cantrip. The chosen spells count as Judge of Absolution spells for you, are always prepared and don't count against the total of spells you can prepare. Level 15 Book of Sins, Extension: you can choose another feature from one of the Book of Sins Addenda available to you. Level 16 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 17 Book of Sins, Extension: you can choose another feature from one of the Book of Sins Addenda available to you. Level 18 Arcana Inquisitionis, Addenda: Choose two spells from any other class, A spell you choose must be of a level you can cast, as shown on the Judge of Absolution table, or a cantrip. The chosen spells count as Judge of Absolution spells for you, are always prepared and don't count against the total of spells you can prepare. Level 19 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 20 ULTIMUS JUSTICIAR You transform into the maximum Judge that can sentence and carry out punishments to those who oppose the path of light. You gain the following abilities: Golden Gavel: When you use your Reaction to use the Gavel feature, you gain another reaction. Searing Sins: When you use your Reaction to use the Facing the Book feature, you gain another reaction. Absentia: You can use a bonus action to teleport to an unoccupied point that you can see within 60 ft. Auto-Da-Fe: As an Action, you can choose a creature that you have successfully passed Judgment upon within 30ft of you. The creature must succeed on a CON SAVE or be consumed by flames, suffering half of its maximum HP in fire damage. Judge of Absolution Spells

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Lion Banner Games

**book**: HellWatch Infernal Oath 5e Compendium Expansion

