# Light Bringer

**description**: Born in Light In a world of chaos, you cast a bright light over the dark path of evil. To be darkness, Light must exist. You learned the art of combat at an early age. You were raised in a convent of the Sisters of Everlasting Light and became proficient in combat and fabricating the Magic of Light from a young age. The Sisters of the monastery would claim you were molded from the Light, forged for the good of this world and raised by the holy word. You are an experiment of good, unleashed on the earth to rid it of its sins. Your only quest is to vanquish evil from this world. To bring it to its knees and plead for atonement. You do not seek violence or conflict but will act swiftly within it. Violence begets violence, and you use your powers to avert it whenever possible. You have only known good in your life; evil is the opposite of everything you breathe. You have no knowledge about romantic love or friendship and were raised to fight and rid the sins of the world; it is the curse that you have been handed. You have been raised in this glass shell, yet you must break it to discover who you are and what you can become. To do so, you must discover your past. Who left you at the convent, who took away your will and choice to be decided by others, albeit holy people? You must learn from the Sisters where you were raised and your origins. If you have any family, are they alive? Although you cannot change your past, you can forge your future. Level Proficiency Max Dim Value Features 1st +2 8 Inner Light, Sword of Light, Ray of Healing 2nd +2 Lux Strike, Born in Light 3rd +2 Rite of Sisterhood, Inner Strength 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 12 Extra Attack, Devout Acolyte 6th +3 Blazing Lunge, Source of Light 7th +3 Battle Meditation, Circle of Protection 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 16 Everlasting Blessing, Enhanced Ray of Healing 10th +4 Silent Vow, Sworn Warrior 11th +4 Spinning Light Strike, Enhanced Circle of Protection 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 20 Mirror of Light, Holy Body 14th +5 Lightning Storm 15th +5 Enhanced Sword of Light, Enhanced Everlasting Blessing 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 24 Eyes of Fury, Enhanced Silent Vow 18th +6 Radiant Power 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 Vessel of Light Class Features Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d10 Hit Points at 1st Level: 1d10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per Light Bringer level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: All armor, Shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Wisdom, Constitution Skills: Choose two from Athletics, Acrobatics, History, Insight, Medicine, Performance and Religion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) chain mail and a holy symbol or (b) studded leather armor and a holy symbol (a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons (a) a priest's pack or (b) an explorer's pack Level 1 Inner Light: you are gifted with a mighty innate spiritual force. Certain features will Dim your Light, making you temporarily weaker; but you can Rekindle your Light to obtain powerful effects - light shines brightest in the dark. Dim Value: You have a Dim Value that starts at 0 and represents your Inner Light fading. Your Dim Value can never be more than four times your Proficiency bonus. If at any point your current hit points are at or below this value, you immediately drop to 0 hit points and your Dim value is set to 0. Dim your Light: Every time a feature Dims your Light, you increase your Dim Value by an amount chosen by you, up to your Proficiency bonus. You can use features that Dim your Light without increasing your Dim Value if you want to. Rekindle your Light: when a feature Rekindles your Light, you gain temporary hit points equal to your Dim Value; you also gain certain benefits based on your current Dim Value, depending on the feature. Finally, your Dim Value is set to 0. Sword of Light: This feature will Dim your Light. As a Bonus Action when you take the Attack action against an hostile creature, you can ignite your weapon with the energy of the God of Light. For the next 1 minute, you can use your Wisdom modifier, instead of Strength or Dexterity, for the attack and damage rolls when making a melee weapon attack. For the same duration, your attacks also inflict extra lighting damage equal to your proficiency bonus. If you use this feature again before the effect has ended, the duration is refreshed. Ray of Healing: This feature will Rekindle your Light. As a bonus action you can use your holy powers to heal an ally (including yourself) that you can see within 30 ft of you. The ally regains hit points equal to 1d8 + your Dim Value. A creature can't regain hit points from this feature again until it has finished a short or long rest. Level 2 Lux Strike: This feature will Dim your Light. You can spend your Inner Light to empower your attacks. When you hit an hostile creature with a melee weapon attack, you can choose to Dim your Light; this attack deals extra radiant damage equal to the increase in your Dim Value. Born in Light: This feature will Rekindle your Light. While your Dim Value is at its maximum value, you can be renewed in the Light when your current hit points go below your Dim Value, but don’t reach 0. In this case, your current hit points are set to half your maximum hit points instead of 0, then you Rekindle your Light. You can use this feature a number of times each day equal to half your proficiency bonus, but no more than once per short rest. Level 3 Rite of Sisterhood: This feature will Rekindle your Light. As a reaction when you miss with an attack, you enter a deep trance connecting with the bond of the Convent of Everlasting Light. When you do so, you gain a pool of blessings equal to your Dim Value. You can distribute these blessings however you choose between one or more creatures (you included) within 30 ft of you. For each blessing received, that creature gains advantage on one attack or save they make before the end of their next turn. Inner Strength: You gain proficiency in Strength saving throws. You gain advantage on Strength skill checks. Level 4 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 5 Extra Attack: Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. Devout Acolyte: You gain proficiency in Religion. If you already have proficiency with that skill, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Religion check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for this skill. Level 6 Blazing Lunge: This feature will Dim your Light. When you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with this feature. You propel yourself through the ether and land with a burst of light. Choose an unoccupied space that you can see within 30ft and that is within 5ft of at least one hostile creature; teleport to that point. Every enemy within 5ft of your new location must make a CHA SAVE with a DC equal to (8 + your Wisdom modifier + your proficiency bonus) or become blinded until the start of your next turn. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Source of Light: This feature will Rekindle your Light. As a Bonus Action, you can cause a spark of holy energy in a radius of 10 ft around you. Every enemy in that area suffers lightning damage equal to your Dim Value and they have disadvantage on the next attack they make before the start of your next turn. Level 7 Battle Meditation: You gain resistance to Radiant damage. Also, when you roll initiative you can choose to Dim your Light once. Circle of Protection: This feature will Dim your Light. You can cast Protection from Evil and Good without requiring components or a spell slot as a bonus action. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 8 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 9 Everlasting Blessing: This feature will Rekindle your Light. As an action you can cast Aid without requiring components or a spell slot. Each target’s hit point maximum and current hit points increase by an amount equal to 5 or your Dim Value until the next dawn. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Enhanced Ray of Healing: When you use your Ray of Healing feature, you can target an additional ally within range. Level 10 Silent Vow: As a reaction when you are about to become frightened, you enter a trance and cannot speak for a duration of ten minutes. During this time you are immune to being Frightened. Sworn Warrior: This feature will Dim your Light. As a bonus action, choose up to three fiends or undead enemies that you can see within 30 ft. of you. Dim your Light once for each enemy you chose. For the next minute, when you hit one of these enemies with an attack they lose all their damage resistances and damage immunities until the end of your next turn. You can’t target the same enemy again until you Rekindle your Light. Level 11 Spinning Light Strike: This feature will Rekindle your Light. When you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with this feature. Roll a number of d8s equal to a third of your Dim Value. Every enemy within 5 ft of you must make a DEX SAVE with a DC equal to (8 + your Wisdom modifier + your proficiency bonus) or suffer lightning damage equal to the amount rolled (or half as much on a successful save). You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier each day. Enhanced Circle of Protection: You can use your Circle of Protection feature again after you have finished a short or long rest. Level 12 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 13 Mirror of Light: This feature will Dim your Light. You can use this feature as a reaction when you are making a saving throw against an effect caused by an hostile creature that is only targeting you. The hostile creature must immediately make a save as if it had targeted itself as well with the same effect. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Holy Body: You gain resistance to Necrotic damage. Level 14 Lightning Storm: This feature will Rekindle your Light. As an action, you can cast Call Lightning without requiring components or a spell slot. You cast this spell as the equivalent of a 5th level slot; the first strike also deals additional lightning damage equal to your Dim Value. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 15 Enhanced Sword of Light: when you use your Sword of Light feature, you inflict extra damage equal to double your proficiency bonus. Enhanced Everlasting Blessing: when you use your Everlasting Blessing feature, you can instead cast Heroes' Feast without requiring components or a spell slot. You can target a number of creatures equal to your Dim Value. Level 16 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 17 Eyes of Fury: This feature will Dim your Light. As a bonus action, you can target an enemy within 30 ft of you that can see you and that you can see. The enemy becomes restrained until the start of your next turn unless they are immune to being Frightened; fiends and undeads cannot benefit from any immunity to being Frightened against this feature. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Enhanced Silent Vow: when you use your Silent Vow feature you also become immune to being Charmed, Paralyzed and Stunned. Level 18 Radiant Power: As a Reaction when you take radiant damage from an hostile creature’s attacks or effects, you take no damage and instead regain a number of hit points equal to the radiant damage dealt. Level 19 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 20 Vessel of Light You become the highest source of light for the Gods and channel their power in the ether. You gain the following abilities: Heavenly Strike: you can use your Lightning Storm ability (and the Call Lightning effect on following turns) as a bonus action. Fury of the Gods: Any hostile aberration, elemental, fey, fiend, and undead that sees you must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened by you until the end of their next turn. Creatures immune to fear can’t benefit from said immunity against this feature. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to this feature for the next 24 hours. Soul Light: during your turn, you can turn your body into pure light. Until you end this effect, you gain a flight speed (hover) equal to your movement speed and you can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. You take 5 (1d10) force damage if you end your turn inside an object.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Lion Banner Games

**book**: HellWatch Infernal Oath 5e Compendium Expansion

