# Magi

**description**: Witchcraft Magic flows through your veins as it has through those of your ancestors. Your family lineage extends far back in time and has always been intertwined with magic. Troubled times forced you to shelter your powers for most of your life, yet now you understand that you cannot fight them, and you must fully embrace that ethereal link that binds your soul. Unearthing your true potential and the latent powers within you will entail a long journey of discovery. In your quest, you will also face those who oppose using magic and persecute it because they fear it and fail to understand its origin. In your travels, you will encounter witches and other sorcerers who are persecuted, tried, and put to the flames for their actions. It is time for you to play your role in what you can do to make those understand that magic is like a word; it can speak the truth and do good, yet it can also deceive and cause destruction. Level P. Bonus Features Spells Known Cantrips Known 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 1st +2 Spellcasting, Spirit Malady, Staff of the Elements, Studium 4 4 2 - - - - - - - - 2nd +2 Remedy Vial, Nature's Child 5 4 3 2 - - - - - - - 3rd +2 Viper's touch, Amatorium 6 4 4 3 - - - - - - - 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 7 5 4 3 - - - - - - - 5th +3 Spirit Contagium 8 5 4 3 2 - - - - - - 6th +3 Empowered Staff 7 5 4 3 3 - - - - - - 7th +3 Augury 8 5 4 3 3 1 - - - - - 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9 45 4 3 3 2 - - - - - 9th +4 Potent Vial 10 5 4 3 3 3 1 - - - - 10th +4 Hexxen, Nature's Kin 11 6 4 3 3 3 2 - - - - 11th +4 Healer by Nature 11 6 4 3 3 3 2 1 - - - 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 13 6 4 3 3 3 2 1 - - - 13th +5 Pythonyssa 14 6 4 3 3 3 2 1 - - - 14th +5 Repulse 14 6 4 3 3 3 2 1 - - - 15th +5 Death's Door 14 6 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 - 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 14 6 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 - 17th +6 Energized Staff 15 6 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 1 18th +6 Blood Pact 15 6 4 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 15 6 4 3 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 20th +6 Aether Witch 15 6 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 1 Class Features Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d6 Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per Maga level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Daggers, darts, slings, quarterstaffs, light crossbows, sickle Tools: Herbalism kit Saving Throws: Wisdom, Intelligence Skills: Choose three from Animal Handling, Arcana, Nature, Medicine, Insight, Investigation, Perception, Performance Religion and Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: a quarterstaff (a) a dagger or (b) a sickle (a) a scholar's pack or (b) an herbalism kit (a) a component pouch or (b) an arcane focus A charm from your home Cantrips At 1st level, you know four cantrips of your choice from the Magi spell list. You learn additional Magi cantrips of your choice at higher levels, as shown in the Cantrips Known column of the Magi table. Spell Slots he Magi table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your Magi spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these spells, you must expend a spell's level or higher slot, and you regain all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest. You know four 1st-level spells of your choice from the Magi spell list. The Spells Known column of the Magi table shows when you learn more Magi spells of your choice. Each of these spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For instance, when you reach 3rd level in this class, you can learn one new spell of 1st or 2nd level. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose up to two of the Magi spells you know and replace them with other spells from the Magi spell list; they also must be of a level for which you have spell slots. Spellcasting Ability Your spellcasting ability as a Maga / Magus is Your spellcasting ability as a Magi is Wisdom, reflecting your connection to your innate intuition and the mystical forces around you. Whenever a spell mentions your spellcasting ability, rely on your Wisdom. Furthermore, when determining the saving throw DC for your Delver of the Abyss spells or making an attack roll with them, apply your Charisma modifier. Here's how to calculate these values: Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier Level 1 Spirit Malady: Your knowledge of the mystical arts allows you to addle the mind or consume the body of those who seek to oppose you. Your spells, attacks or features granted by this class receive the following benefits: When you are about to deal poison damage to a target, you can choose to change the effect’s damage type to psychic or acid. When you are about to inflict the Poisoned condition, a creature immune to it can’t benefit from that immunity against this effect. When a creature is about to make a Constitution saving throw against an effect that inflicts poison damage (or psychic or acid, if the damage type has been changed with Spirit Malady) or the Poisoned condition, you can change the saving throw to an Intelligence one instead. Staff of the Elements: When you wield a quarterstaff, you can carry out one of the following: · Heal: As an Action, you can cure an ally within 15 ft. They can immediately spend one of their Hit Dice + their Constitution modifier; they regain that many hit points. · Protect: As a reaction when an ally within 30 ft. is about to be hit by an attack, you can cast a magical barrier to protect them. They gain a +2 bonus to their AC against the triggering attack, potentially causing it to miss. · Fulmen: As a bonus action, you can cast a noxious bolt up to 60 ft. Make a ranged spell attack against a creature within range; on a hit, the target takes 2d6 Poison Damage and they can’t take reactions until the start of their next turn. You can use your Staff of the Elements feature a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus and you recover any expended usage when you complete a long rest. Studium: You gain proficiency in Insight. If you already have proficiency with that skill, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Insight check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for this skill. Level 2 Remedy Vial: You can distil a homebrewed liquid that grants whoever drinks it the benefit of one of these spells for 1 hour or until they end the effect: Comprehend Languages, Disguise Self, False Life (1st Level equivalent), Longstrider. You can prepare a number of these potions equal to your proficiency modifier while you take a Long Rest; they lose their effects when you take your next Long Rest. Nature’s Child: You have advantage on Intelligence (Nature) checks. You also gain resistance to poison damage and have advantage on saving throws against effects that inflict the Poisoned condition. Level 3 Viper’s Touch: whenever you deal poison (or psychic or acid, if the damage type has been changed with Spirit Malady) damage to a creature, they must succeed on a CON SAVE or become Poisoned until the end of your next turn. You can only affect creatures with a Challenge Rating equal to or lower than your level in this class with this feature. Amatorium: You have advantage on Charisma checks versus Beasts, Elementals, Feys and Plants; and you have advantage on Charisma saves against their spells and abilities. You gain the same benefits when dealing with humanoids and fiends, but only if they are Hags or Witches. Level 4 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 5 Spirit Contagion: whenever you deal poison (or psychic or acid, if the damage type has been changed with Spirit Malady) damage to a Poisoned creature, you can use your reaction to deal 1d6 poison damage to each creature of your choice within 5 ft. of the first one. Level 6 Empowered Staff: You recover any expended Staff of the Element usage when you complete a short rest. Each power granted by that feature is improved: · Heal: When you use the Heal power, you add your Wisdom modifier to the amount healed. · Protect: The Protect effect bonus to AC becomes equal to your proficiency bonus. · Fulmen: You can target up to two creatures with this attack. Level 7 Augury: as long as you are not surprised, you can use your reaction when rolling initiative to change the initiative value of another creature that you can see within 60 ft. of you. You can change this value so that it is as high as the highest value among the creatures in the current combat, plus one. Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Level 8 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 9 Potent Vial: when you brew your Remedy Vial, you can choose from these spells as well: Enhance Ability (2nd level equivalent), Darkvision, Alter Self, Feign Death, Invisibility (2nd level equivalent), Nondetection, Pass Without Trace, See Invisibility. Level 10 Hexxen: While you take a Long Rest, you can dream about a specific humanoid creature (IE: Thomas the Burgomaster) in your mind and cast a hex on them. After you complete your Long Rest, the creature has Disadvantage on rolls for checks or attacks that target only you. The effect lasts until you complete your next Long Rest. Nature’s Kin: You have advantage on saves against the effects of spells while you are in woods or other heavily forested environments. Level 11 Healer by Nature: You gain proficiency in Medicine. If you already have proficiency with that skill, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Medicine check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for this skill. Level 12 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 13 Pythonyssa: When a creature makes a save against your spells or effects that cause poison damage or the poisoned condition, they make the save with Disadvantage. Once a creature fails a save against one of these spells or effects, they can’t be affected by this feature again for the next 24 hours. Level 14 Repulse: As a reaction, when you take damage, you can expend a spell slot to reduce the damage by an amount equal to 1d8 per spell level. Once you use this feature you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 15 Death's Door: When you or an ally within 30 feet of you drops to 0 hit points, as a reaction your magic connection to the afterlife allows you to restore them to life. They can immediately spend one of their Hit Dice + their Constitution modifier; they regain that many hit points, plus your Wisdom modifier. Once you use this feature you can't use it again until you finish a long rest. Level 16 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 17 Energized Staff: · Heal: You can target up to two creatures with this feature. · Protect: The effect lasts until the start of your next turn. · Fulmen: You can target a number of creatures equal to your proficiency bonus with this attack. Level 18 Blood Pact: Whenever you lose 20 hit points from a single source, as a reaction you can immediately cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action or less. Level 19 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats) Level 20 AETHER WITCH You transform into a ghostly witch spirit and gain the following abilities: Poison Craft: You gain immunity to Poison damage and the Poisoned condition. Verhexen: attacks made against you with non magical means are made at Disadvantage. Etherealness: As an action, you can enter the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. You are visible on the Material Plane while you are in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet you can't affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Spirit: You gain a flying speed equal to your speed and you hover. You can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. You take 5 (1d10) force damage if you end your turn inside an object. Aetherial Grasp: As an action, you can extend your hand into the ethereal plane to manipulate or interact with objects on the material plane. This allows you to open doors, retrieve items, but you can’t attack or cast spells. Maga / Magus Spells This class uses the Sorcerer spell list, with the following additions: Cantrips Druidcraft Guidance Night Psalm Resistance Shillelagh Thorn Whip Venenum 1st level Create or Destroy Water Faerie Fire False Life Find Familiar Hex Mystic Snake Ray of Sickness Sanctuary 2nd level Anti Venenum Augury Continual Flame Enthrall Moonbeam Pass without Trace Ray of Enfeeblement Spider Climb 3rd level Bestow Curse Call Lightning Conjure Animals Create Food and Water Fly Magic Circle Pestis Speak with Dead 4th level Black Tentacles Control Water Death Ward Dominate Beast Eternal Youth Locate Creature 5th level Awaken Commune with Nature Conjure Elemental Contagion Dream Geas Scrying Spectral Attack 6th level Conjure Fey Find the Path Magic Jar Wall of Thorns 7th level Regenerate Symbol 8th level Animal Shapes Antipathy/Sympathy Control Weather Earthquake Telepathy 9th level Astral Projection Foresight Shapechange Storm of Vengeance Maga / Magus Spell List Venenum Night psalm Mystic snake Anti venenum Pestis Eternal youth Spectral attack

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Lion Banner Games

**book**: HellWatch Infernal Oath 5e Compendium Expansion

