# Melder

**description**: His palm extended, a dendus calls of a shimmer of frost to coalesce before him before unleashing its deadly cold toward his enemy. An lunar eldori weaves a micro-singularity—a black hole— which hovers over a nearby platform lifting and twisting all within its pull with a powerful crushing force. A utopian human touches an electrical port, extending her perceptions through the ship’s computer panels to gain an overview of the bridge nearby. Masters of matter and energy manipulation, melders have attuned themselves to the incredible raw power within the mysterious Crucibles. Using the energy within themselves, they are able to alter reality itself by combining, shaping and channeling the energies around them. It is an ability even the most learned of races still do not fully understand. Some espers wield their powers through use of sorium devices or implants. Melders know no such limitations. Their entire essence is infused with the power generated by the Crucibles, allowing them to draw matter and energy from around them and shape it to their desired form before releasing it. Weavers of the Cosmos Melders commune directly with the Crucibles in a system of codes and formula translated into controlled forms of energy. It is almost a language on its own, requiring a strong psyche to focus upon and comprehend as they “speak” with the forces around them. Once such a code is mastered it becomes part of the Melders repertoire of Talents. The most powerful of Melders view the forces of creation as one great cycle of energy, waiting to be tapped into. Channeling such massive surges of energy takes a toll on both the body and mind. It is almost as if they have two personas within them at the same time, each with a completely different train of thought. Once a Melder reaches their limit, they must recover their strength. If pushed further, they run the risk of both physical debilitation and possible descent into madness. Disciples of Infinity Due to their unique view of the connection between all things, a great many melders tend to try to look past the veil, striving to learn more about the nature of both their universe and the multiverse that exists beyond. Some believe that the Crucibles are merely a manifestation of realities and concepts that cannot yet be fathomed by the mortal mind, and that espers may be the key to their discovery. Creating a Melder When choosing Melder as your class, consider the event that took place in which your character was awakened to his or her abilities. Did something provoke this awakening? Perhaps they studied the practices of another melder? Maybe they were capable of strange feats at a young age, or encountered a strange creature or location where their powers manifested. Ability Scores Intelligence should be your primary ability score. Constitution could be considered secondary to supplement your hit points, followed by Wisdom and Charisma. The Melder Level Proficiency Bonus Features Prime Talents Talent Points Maximum Talent Rank 1st +2 Channeling, Esper Recovery 3 4 1 2nd +2 Esper Discipline 3 6 1 3rd +2 — 3 14 2 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 4 17 2 5th +3 — 4 27 3 6th +3 Esper Discipline Feature 4 32 3 7th +3 — 4 38 4 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 44 4 9th +4 — 4 57 5 10th +4 Esper Discipline Feature 5 64 5 11th +4 Esper Mastery (Rank 6) 5 73 5(6) 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 5 78 5(6) 13th +5 Esper Mastery (Rank 7) 5 83 5(7) 14th +5 Esper Discipline Feature 5 88 5(7) 15th +5 Esper Mastery (Rank 8) 5 94 5(8) 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 5 100 5(8) 17th +6 Esper Mastery (Rank 9) 5 107 5(9) 18th +6 Prime Channeling 5 114 5(9) 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 5 123 5(9) 20th +6 Signature Talents 5 133 5(9) Class Features As a melder, you have the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice : 1d6 per melder level Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Constitution modifier per melder level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: None Weapons: Combat knife, throwing blades, collapsible staff, metal baton, light pistol Tools: None Saving Throws: Intelligence, Wisdom Skills: Choose two skills from Astrophysics, Insight, Investigation, Lore, Medicine, and Xenobiology Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a collapsible staff or (b) a combat knife (a) a metal baton or (b) 6 throwing blades (a) a scientist’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack (a) a portable shield device (PSD) Channeling As an expert in the art of melding, you have a collection of innate abilities that make up your arsenal of talents. Prime Talents At 1st level, you know three prime talents of your choice from the melder talents list. You learn additional talents at higher levels as shown in the Prime Talents column of the Melder table. Esper Talents At 1st level, you learn six talents of your choice which may be selected from the melder talents list. These represent the different methods you’ve learned in which you can shape matter and energy. Talent Points The Melder table shows the number of talent points you have to use on your esper talents. These points represent the amount of personal energy that must be channeled into the talent in order to produce the desired effect. Once your pool of talent points is depleted, you are on the brink of exhaustion. Your regain all of your points once you finish a long rest. Each talent has a rank and a point cost associated with it. If you do not have enough points to cover the cost, you can’t use the talent. You can only learn and use talents up to a certain rank depending on your level. These are shown in the Maximum Talent Rank column of the Melder table. Esper Ability Intelligence is your channeling ability for your melder talents, since you learn your talents through study, practice, and precise execution. You use your Intelligence whenever a talent refers to your chanelling ability. In addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a melder talent you use and when making an attack roll with one. Channeling save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Channeling attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Gaining Additional Talents You gain additional talents and ranks as you gain levels. Each time you gain a level as a melder, you learn two additional talents of your choice. They can be of any rank so long as they are not higher than the maximum talent rank you can use. Conventional Channeling You can use a talent conventionally if the talent has the conventional tag and it is in your list of known talents. Esper Recovery At 1st level, you are able to regain some of your spent energy through focus and meditative techniques. Once per day when you finish a short rest, you can recover a small number of talent points. The number of points you can recover is equal to 2 plus half of your melder level (rounded down). Melder Discipline When you reach 2nd level, you choose a discipline, refining your powers into specialized abilities and practices. Your choice grants you features at 2nd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Esper Mastery At 11th level, your attunement to the fundamental forces around you grants you the ability to channel advanced esper talents. Choose a rank 6 talent from the melder powers list. You can activate this power once by spending the required amount of talent points. You must finish a long rest before you can do so again. At higher levels, you gain more adept talents of your choice that you can use in this way: One rank 7 at 13th level, one rank 8 at 15th level and one rank 9 at 17th level. You regain all uses of your Esper Mastery when you finish a long rest. Additionally, whenever you gain a new level in this class, you can replace one of your mastery talents with another talent fof the same rank from the melder powers list. Prime Channeling At 18th level, you have achieved such mastery over certain talents that you can use them at will as prime talents. Choose a rank 1 melder talent and a rank 2 melder talent that are in your list of known talents. You can activate those talents at their lowest rank without spending any talent points. If you want to use either talent at a higher rank, you must spend the required talent points as normal. By spending 8 hours in meditation, you can exchange one or both of the talents you chose for different talents of the same ranks. This meditation can be performed during a long rest. Signature Talents When you reach 20th level, you gain mastery over two powerful talents and can activate them with minimal effort. Choose two rank 3 melder talents in your list of known talents to become your signature talents. You can activate each of them once at rank 3 without expending any talent points. When you do so, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest. If you want to use either talent at a higher rank, you must spend the required talent points as normal. Melder Disciplines Melders are classified into subgroups known as disciplines. Whenever a potential melder reaches Esper Genesis, they are often directed to train under a specialist to determine their chosen discipline. Celestian Defender Metakinetic Protoweaver Psychogenic

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

