# Philosopher - Filosofo or Filosofa

**description**: Bastiano Lenzi kept his step steady and his face carefully neutral as he walked across the lavish gardens of the Colonna family villa, avoiding the clusters of guests animatedly talking and jesting. He was playing it overly safe maybe, but he wasn’t about to run any risks while in the lion’s den. He was neither invited nor welcome here, having cast his lot in with the Orsini, for better or worse. How all this played into Florentine politics was complicated, and Bastiano would have to explain all that to his allies back home on his return. For now, he concentrated on making his way into the villa proper, and once there, into the private offices of Fabrizio Colonna. Without his rare powers which stemmed from a deep understanding of the world’s true workings, he would never have made it there undetained. By carefully arranging, in his mind’s eye, selected strands of the World’s Weave around himself, he made curious looks slide aside, and caused no alarm even in those who would have recognized his features had they but properly looked. When he found Fabrizio’s study, he went in and stood for a few minutes, waiting for an elderly servant to finish dusting the bookshelves and shuffle out of the room, heedless of the intruder. Closing the heavy office door, Bastiano took a deep breath and went to work. With barely more than a glance at the papers scattered across the giant desk, he committed to memory a number of the letters and dispatches in their entirety. Even years from now, he would be able to recite each sheet of paper word for word. The letter he sought to read and memorize in minute detail was not on display, and so he began his search by opening the topmost drawer. In these times of scientific and philosophical development, you belong to the elite of learned citizens, like the famous scholar Leon Battista Alberti, and you even transcend the powers of most of them. There is little that you don’t know about the world, its inhabitants and the spheres beyond – and unlike even most of your colleagues, you have gained such insight as to allow you to manipulate the very forces of the cosmos. You have completed the studium generale of the artes liberales at one of Europe’s universities and most likely have a higher degree in either law, medicine or theology. Or all of them. You have read all important philosophical texts, from the classical works of Aristoteles to the newly translated writings of Plato and are one of the humanists that shape the era. Please read everything about “ Education “ in chapter 3. Or even better, read the entire chapter carefully, because you are a true polymath. Your background: You very likely come from a noble or patrician background or have been supported by the Church because of your many talents. In this case, you will have at least taken the lesser vows. With such a background and education, most doors open easily and you will be an honored member of society. You probably know some of the important philosophers of the time, like Giovanni Pico della Mirandola or Marsilio Ficino. Your prospects are almost limitless, so choose whatever profession best fits your character: You could be the teacher in a noble family – and don’t think that this is a lowly job! The above mentioned Ficino for example was not only Lorenzo de’ Medici’s and his children’s maestro, but became one of his most trusted advisors and a very wealthy man. Other sages have ascended into the high ranks of the Church or were granted important functions in the mighty city-state. You might also work as a physician or defend the nobility in their many lawsuits and thus gain access to the highest circles. Not every philosopher will automatically be successful and consort with the high and mighty. A failed philosopher who has set up shop over a grocery store and dabbles in astrology, sells potions or removes warts to extract a few soldi from servants and shop owners might also provide an interesting background. Note on female philosophers: Depending on how historically faithful your campaign is set up, you might need a good explanation why a woman was accepted into one of the venerated universities. If you make it very “realistic”, then your education will most likely have been gained through private studies with maestros in your family’s home or in a convent. Your status would in this case not be comparable to a man’s in the same field. This will pose a limitation, but might also deliver a strong motivation to work towards a more enlightened society. Please discuss this question with your GM. Philosopher’s Powers The philosopher can learn to wield extraordinary powers through his unparalleled understanding of the workings of creation. He begins with a suite of somewhat more mundane features as well as the starting power Caustic Remark. As the character ascends in level, he will be able to choose advanced powers whose level requirements he meets. The powers are grouped into the following categories for convenience: Divination, Comprehension, Words of Wisdom, See the Flaws and Weave Mastery. Please note that some of the more advanced powers require the mastery of a lesser power within the same category. Consult the Philosopher Table below for powers and Weave Points gained, and the individual power descriptions for requirements. Philosopher Table of Powers Level Proficiency Bonus Powers WP 1 +2 pick 1 power 2 2 +2 pick 1 power 4 3 +2 pick 1 power 6 4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 8 5 +3 pick 1 power 10 6 +3 pick 1 power 12 7 +3 pick 1 power 14 8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 16 9 +4 pick 1 power 18 10 +4 pick 1 power 20 11 +4 pick 1 power 22 12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 24 13 +5 pick 1 power 26 14 +5 pick 1 power 28 15 +5 pick 1 power 30 16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 32 17 +6 pick 1 power 34 18 +6 pick 1 power 36 19 +6 Ability Score Improvement 38 20 +6 pick 1 power 40 Class Features As a philosopher, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per philosopher level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per philosopher level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: light armor Weapons: simple weapons Tools: none Saving Throws: Intelligence, Charisma Skills: You need to pick Artes Liberales and can choose two additional skills from Arcana, Courtly Manners, History, Investigation, Law, Medicine, Persuasion, and Religion. Spell Save DC: 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: a simple weapon a scholar’s pack padded armor and a dagger a magnifying glass, a lamp, several maps of the stars and constellations (a) a healer’s kit or (b) a book with important law texts or (c) a holy bible (depending on your mastery of Law, Medicine or Theology) Starting Powers Weave Points, Language Master, Linguistic Recall, Peer Connections, Caustic Remark Starting Powers Weave Points You can use Weave Points to manipulate the forces of Possibility and Permanence to power a variety of abilities. Refer to the Philosopher Table for the points gained at various levels. Weave Points are either spent immediately upon use of a power, or invested into a power that is either set to be triggered at some later point or is continuous until purposely ended. Invested points can not be regained until the power they are invested in has been used or ended. Once the prepared power has been used, the invested Weave Points cannot be regained during the next long rest as normal. Language Master You speak, read and write Italian, Latin, Ancient Greek and 3 more languages of your choice Linguistic Recall You can perfectly recall one specific piece of writing you have read and the exact wording of any non-trivial conversation, lecture or speech you have heard in the past if you spend 1 Weave Point and succeed at a DC 12 Intelligence (Artes Liberales) check. Peer Connections You know more or less every serious colleague, and whichever city you visit, you are bound to know someone, and have probably exchanged letters with them, or at least have common acquaintances. There is usually some level of solidarity between philosophers, even when they differ in matters of philosophy. Caustic Remark Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Duration: instantaneous Cost: – You make a devastatingly snarky remark the way only you can. If the target can hear and understand you, it must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 1d4 psychic damage and also suffer a –2 to its Armor Class until the end of your next turn. This feature‘s psychic damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4). Advanced Powers Divination You have learned the ancient techniques of reading the stellar movements and drawing conclusions from your observations. In small ways, you can predict the future. The following Divination powers are available for you to master: Secrets of the Stars Requirements: Level 1 Cost: – The stars have warned you of the shape of things to come, granting you vague, disjointed hints of situations you will likely find yourself in. While these readings make no apparent sense at the time, when you are finally faced with a situation that fits the premonition, you recognize it and you are better prepared to deal with it. This power works like the Wizard’s Divination power “Portent” (Divination School feature), but you must have been able to see the stars during the preparatory long rest. Knew it Requirements: Level 2 Cost: – You are immune to being surprised. Thorough Preparation Requirements: Level 2 Cost: 1 WP (invested) per item You have just the thing you need. A simple object that would come in handy just now is in your pack – you had a sense you might need it. You must declare at the end of a long rest (and in a place where you can possibly acquire a range of items and goods) that you invest your Weave Point for one as yet unspecified item. While the character undoubtedly knows what is in his possession, the player doesn’t at this point. He can decide at any point what the object is and produce it from his belongings. At this point, the object is defined and can be used and kept normally. The invested Weave Point can then be regained during the next long rest. The object in question must be of a value of no more than 5gp. The nature of the object is of course subject to GM veto if the GM deems it utterly unreasonable. No Such Thing as Random Requirements: Level 3 Casting Time: 1 action Cost: 2 WP This power allows you to reduce random chance in decisions involving uninformed choices, such as which door or path to pick at a crossroads when no other useful information is available or no clear advantage discernible. The GM will hint at the easier, shorter or safer choice, according to what the character wants to know. To determine his response, the GM will secretly roll 1d10 for each choice, adding the philosopher’s proficiency bonus to the best choice (in the GMs judgement) and then answering the player’s question according to the highest result (without divulging the actual result). If the GM deems the question unanswerable, i.e. there is no best choice, they will simply make unmodified rolls. In case of a tie, decide in the character’s favor. Always in the Right Place Requirements: Level 4, Knew it Cost: – You are hard to hit in combat or by accident, as you always seem to be in just the right place to stay out of harm’s way. You have an effective AC of 16 (unmodifiable) as long as you are conscious and mobile. Deja Vu Requirements: Level 7 Cost: 3 WP (invested) As Secrets of the Stars, but: You have seen the events unfolding right now written in the stars. For one combat round or one minute outside of combat, all opponents have disadvantage and all allies have advantage. The power remains prepared until used, and only one instance can be prepared at any one time. The Future is an Open Book Requirements: Level 9, Deja Vu Cost: 3 WP per instance (invested) Multiple instances of Deja Vu can be prepared. Comprehension Through your diligent studies and your thorough knowledge of the works of the ancients – especially your deep understanding of Plato’s writings – you understand all things human to a remarkable degree. The following Comprehension powers are available for you to master: How Hard Can it Be Requirements: Level 1 Casting Time: bonus action Range: self Duration: instantaneous Cost: 1 WP As the bard feature Jack of all Trades, but useable only with Intelligence and Wisdom ability checks. Reciprocal Speech Requirements: Level 2 Casting Time: reaction Range: special Duration: until next long rest Cost: 1 WP Understand any spoken language, and speak it until the next long rest after being spoken to in that language. Understanding Requirements: Level 4 Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Duration: 10 minutes Cost: 2 WP You can read any language. Codebreaker Requirements: Level 6 Casting Time: special Range: 30 feet Duration: 10 minutes Cost: 2 WP Decode in your mind’s eye any coded writing; if the language is unknown, you will need Understanding as well. To use this power, you concentrate for 1 round per page of writing. Words of Wisdom You have acquired the wisdom of the ages through careful study of those philosophical giants of the ancient world on whose shoulders you stand. Not only do you comprehend, you transcend, and are able to help others with tasks you need never have learned yourself. The following Words of Wisdom powers are available for you to master: Good Conversation Requirements: Level 1 Casting Time: special Range: special Duration: instantaneous Cost: 1 WP The ancient Greeks knew the benefit of talking for mental health. Their term for conversational therapy was Good Conversation. The philosopher can help others lose Dismay points with this power. It can be used on one target during a long rest (lose 1 Dismay) and requires some private time spent together in actual conversation (this does not impinge on general long rest recovery). To be successful, the philosopher has to make a Wisdom (Insight) check against a DC of 10. The Weave Point spent can’t be recovered during the long rest it is spent in – it counts as being spent after that long rest. Timely Assistance Requirements: Level 3, How Hard Can It Be Casting Time: bonus action Range: 10 feet Duration: special Cost: 1 WP The sharp mind of the philosopher allows him to offer useful advice on just about any undertaking, and often it just takes a word or two. Use of this power grants advantage to an ability check made by another character. If used together with the Weave Mastery feature Overcome Boundaries, it additionally allows for the elimination of one requirement for the action undertaken, such as a lock pick attempt without thieves’ tools. Martial Assistance Requirements: Level 6, Timely Assistance Casting Time: bonus action Range: 10 feet Duration: special Cost: 2 WP As Timely Assistance, but for all attack rolls in the next turn of the target If used together with the Weave Mastery feature Overcome Boundaries this adds 5 feet to your reach with a melee weapon or an upgrade of the damage die to the next highest die type (i.e. d4 to d6, d6 to d8 etc.). If the die to be upgraded is already a d12, add the philosopher’s proficiency bonus to all damage dice instead. Arcane Assistance Requirements: Level 6, Timely Assistance Casting Time: bonus action Range: 10 feet Duration: special Cost: 2 WP As Timely Assistance, but it helps with spellcasting, granting advantage to any required rolls by the caster, such as concentration checks or spell attack rolls. If used together with the Weave Mastery feature Overcome Boundaries this allows a one-step range increase (self becomes touch, touch becomes 5 feet, 5 feet and greater ranges are doubled) or a die step increase in damage as with Martial Assistance. See the Flaws Ever since you were able to think and observe, and especially once you began to study at the feet of the great men of learning, you had that nagging feeling that something was just not right with the world, that with everything you knew, the world should be slightly different. Your eyes have now begun to open, and you can see the cracks in reality, the flaws in the weave of the world. The following See The Flaws powers are available for you to master: Unveil the Motive Requirements: Level 1 Range: self Cost: – This feature allows the Philosopher to see the smallest of cracks in a person’s facade, granting advantage to a Wisdom (Insight) check to detect lies, predict actions etc. Poison Tongue Requirements: Level 3 Casting Time: reaction Range: 60 feet Duration: instantaneous Cost: 2 WP You insert a seemingly random word, which you imbue with the resonance of the Weave, during a single opponent’s utterance, or when he tries some ability check or attack roll. The target suffers –1d6 to his roll unless he successfully makes a Wisdom saving throw. If casting a spell without an attack roll, the target has to succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or fail to cast the spell. The World Askew Requirements: Level 4 Casting Time: 1 action Range: special Duration: special Cost: 2 WP You notice minute details about your surroundings (or about people) that hint at earlier occurrences. A supernaturally gifted investigator, you can look at a place and rapidly determine what happened if any marks of an activity have been left at all. Minute details on a person such as a stain on their clothing, a bad shave or shoddily tied shoelaces can lead you to accurately guess baffling details about them. Understanding the interactions between Possibility and Permanence, you can often envision the actions that made the marks and you can make eeriely accurate guesses as to who or what executed those actions. Sometimes it is as if an entire scene unfolds before your mind’s eye like a theatre play. You have advantage when you make an Intelligence (Investigation) check using The World Askew, and if you succeed the GM gives you not only the required information, but one further piece of information (which would probably be impossible to conclude by any regular investigator using the evidence at hand). On a critical success, an entire scene plays out in your head – although the identities of people involved in the goings-on are probably still not always obvious. The GM should adjust the DC according to circumstances, like how long ago the investigated actions happened, how small or large the observed area is, or any other factors relevant to the situation. At his discretion, the GM might want to prepare a number of levels of information to discover, depending on which DC has been beaten by the check; or he can ask for further checks (still at advantage) to discover more (though without further WP cost, and only as long as the checks are successful), effectively leading the philosopher through the chain of events. Stutters of Confusion Requirements: Level 6, Poison Tongue Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Duration: special Cost: 1 WP per –1 on target’s rolls, up to philosopher’s proficiency bonus Embedded within a curiously halting speech, the philosopher’s poisoned words cause confusion in any one target who listens and fails its Wisdom saving throw. The philosopher has to speak only one or two sentences, just a few seconds really, and then let the words fester in the victim’s mind. At any point in time after that, the philosopher can unleash the effect with just one more word uttered. The target does not have to be present at this point in time. The target suffers a penalty determined by the number of WP spent (see cost) on all rolls except damage rolls until they can have a short rest. Chasm of Despair Requirements: Level 9, Stutters of Confusion Casting Time: reaction Range: 60 feet Duration: instantaneous Cost: 3 WP, invested until the target makes a successful saving throw Over the course of at least a short, possibly casual conversation, the philosopher can sow the seeds of blackest despair in the victim.This feature works like Stutters of Confusion, but instead of a penalty on rolls the victim gains 1 Dismay per day until a successful Wisdom saving throw is made (roll once per day). Dismay accumulated up to this point remains and can be dealt with as normal. Initial saving throw is Wisdom. Clear Sight Requirements: Level 9, The World Askew Casting Time: 1 action Range: self Duration: 1 hour Cost: 6 WP As the true seeing spell (except range is self only). This can be used in combination with The World Askew. Timely Intervention Requirements: Level 11 Casting Time: reaction Range: 60 feet Duration: instantaneous Cost: 5 WP With just a carefully placed word or jarringly discordant short phrase, the philosopher can hinder or disrupt attempts at any kind of activity, including ability checks, spellcasting or combat rolls. Unless the target makes a successful Wisdom saving throw, the action automatically fails. Timely Intervention is used as a reaction. Weave Mastery Your understanding of the world has reached far beyond that of ordinary people, and you can now see the world in such a way that you can manipulate it at the most basic level. The strands of creation itself are now subject to reweaving by your hand. The following Weave Mastery powers are available for you to master: Overcome Boundaries Requirements: Level 9, Timely Assistance Cost: 3 WP (in addition to the Assistance feature’s cost) This allows you to help others ignore common restrictions on abilities or spells, subject to GM veto, for example to pick a lock without thieves’ tools, or enable an artist to imbue true life, or a soul, into a living statue. This feature can only be used in conjunction with Timely Assistance, Martial Assistance and Arcane Assistance, but both powers will have to be paid for in WP. See the Assistance features for guidelines for ranges, damage etc. Acceptance in the World Requirements: Level 11 Casting Time: 1 action Range: sight Duration: 2 hours Cost: 6 WP Cloaked in the mantle of the World’s Weave, the philosopher can fit in anywhere, making him or her the ultimate infiltrator. As long as he doesn’t give himself away by offensive action or thoughtless speech to arouse suspicion, he will be accepted in any group’s midst as a matter of course, unquestioned. Should he draw attention to himself, matters change, granting another saving throw for each eligible target. A saving throw only applies if the infiltrated group has members of equal or higher level than the philosopher, otherwise acceptance will be automatic. Normally, each target with the required level is allowed a saving throw, though in those rare cases where that might be impractical (due to too many eligible targets) the GM can decide to just make one roll for the target group. Malleable Weave Requirements: Level 12, Knew It Casting Time: reaction Range: self Duration: special Cost: 2 WP per attack avoided The philosopher can bend the world to his whim – any attack or object coming his way at any point during a combat round and which he can see will miss automatically if he so desires. The Unyielding Weave Requirements: Level 15 Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Duration: 1 minute Cost: 4 WP / special Makes any spellcasting impossible within a radius of 30 feet around the philosopher (the effect remains centered on him if he moves around) unless the magic–user makes a successful Wisdom saving throw for every attempted spell. Spell effects already established when the power is activated are not affected. Spells originating outside the 30 foot radius sphere are not affected and can affect targets within the area of effect. The feature can be amended to allow selected characters to use magic, with an extra WP expenditure of 2 WP for each excepted character. Cast-Iron Weave Requirements: Level 18 Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Duration: 1 minute Cost: 4 WP / special For the duration, no actions are possible within a radius of 30 foot radius sphere around the philosopher; the effect moves with the philosopher. Affected characters will just stand around impotently, unable even to speak coherently unless they make a successful Wisdom saving throw against the philosopher’s spell save DC. The philosopher can move with difficulty (at 1/4 normal rate, rounded down) if he expends an extra WP, and can move normally if he expends 3 WP. The feature can be amended on the spot to allow selected characters to take actions, with an extra WP expenditure of 3 WP for each excepted character. Unaging Requirements: Level 19 Cost: – The philosopher ages at a much slower rate. Aging occurs at a rate of 1 year of aging for every 5 years elapsed. Mend the World / Break the World Requirements: Level 20 Casting Time: special Range: touch / special Duration: concentration / special Cost: special (minimum 2 WP) Just like a seamstress either mending a garment or ripping it apart, the philosopher can manipulate, repair or destroy the fragile connections between the worlds, especially those of fae and mortals, and the very fabric of the world. In the wrong hands, this power can cause untold destruction as it allows the direct manipulation of the forces of Possibility and Permanence. If one wanted to undo the millennia of work by the Faerie Queens, this is the way. Likewise, if one were to join forces with them, this is the power which could help them finish their work, especially if an entire group of philosophers were to act in unison.On a more practical scale, this power allows the philosopher to open or close (or even destroy) planar passageways and similar reality-defying constructs; recreate, manipulate or destroy the planar technology of the fae (or similar constructs) in general; change the ways the natural world behaves in small locales (the effects of gravity come to mind, for example); and whatever else the player and Game Master can agree on. This is an epic power that works best with poetic thinking, and a willingness to contribute to a satisfying, world-shaking endgame. Casting time and cost should be set by the GM according to the needs of the story, but as a rough guideline use the following: The GM sets the base time at 1 to 5 hours, depending on the difficulty, scale and intricacy of the task. The base cost is time × 2 Weave Points. The player then has the option to modify casting time, range and duration according to the table below: find the step in time, range or duration you want and note the extra cost. Repeat for each category you want to modify and add the costs.Basic range is touch, and basic duration is concentration For example , the philosopher wants to destroy a spatial connection between two fae-built cave systems located in different areas of the world. The GM sets the casting time at 3 hours, which makes the base cost 3 × 2 = 6 WP. Extra Weave Points Casting Time Range Duration 2 10 min. 30 ft. 1 min. 4 1 minute 300 ft. 1 h. 6 1 action sight permanent The player now wants to modify all three categories: casting time, range and duration. He is sorely pressed for time and wants to get it all done in 1 action. Looking at the table, he sees that this step costs 6 WP. As he still has lots of Weave Points left, he decides to step up the range to 30 feet just in case the effect in place was booby-trapped: another 2 WP are added to the cost. Finally, he decides the effort is only worth it if he destroys the passage for good; he makes the effect permanent for another 6 WP. Altogether he has now spent 6 (base) + 6 (time) + 2 (range) + 6 (duration) = 20 Weave Points. The philosopher takes a look at the arcane symbols on the cave walls, concentrates for a moment and annihilates the mystic portal with barely a thought. Advanced Powers by Level Requirement Level 1: Secrets of the Stars (Divination) How Hard Can it Be (Comprehension) Good Conversation (Words of Wisdom) Unveil the Motive (See the Flaws) Level 2: Knew it (Divination) Thorough Preparation (Divination) Reciprocal Speech (Comprehension) Level 3: No Such Thing as Random (Divination) Timely Assistance (Words of Wisdom) Poison Tongue (See the Flaws) Level 4: Always in the Right Place (Divination) The World Askew (See the Flaws) Codebreaker (Comprehension) Level 5: Understanding (Comprehension) Level 6: Martial Assistance (Words of Wisdom) Arcane Assistance (Words of Wisdom) Stutters of Confusion (See the Flaws) Level 7: Deja Vu (Divination) Level 9: The Future is an Open Book (Divination) Chasm of Despair (See the Flaws) Clear Sight (See the Flaws) Overcome Boundaries (Weave Mastery) Level 11: Timely Intervention (See the Flaws) Acceptance in the World / Gray Man (Weave Mastery) Level 12: Malleable Weave (Weave Mastery) Level 15: The Unyielding Weave (Weave Mastery) Level 18: Cast-Iron Weave (Weave Mastery) Level 19: Unaging (Weave Mastery) Level 20: Mend the World / Break the World (Weave Mastery) Caustic Remark How Hard Can It Be Reciprocal Speech Understanding Codebreaker Good Conversation Timely Assistance Martial Assistance Arcane Assistance Poison Tongue The World Askew Stutters of Confusion Chasm of Despair Clear Sight Timely Intervention Acceptance in the World Malleable Weave The Unyielding Weave Cast-Iron Weave Mend the World/Break the World

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

