# Pilgrim

**description**: On occasion, an individual undergoing deep meditation or a spiritual awakening senses a glimmer of cosmic truth just outside their mind’s reach. Pilgrims are individuals who, through sheer force of will, are able to reach through the cosmic veil and grasp a fragment of that truth for the briefest of moments. After this transformative experience, they discover an expanded sense of self and ability to manipulate primal forces of the universe known as Yin and Yang. Those that devote themselves to gaining further understanding and Enlightenment set out on an endless journey of self-discovery to align themselves with their cosmic truth. By undergoing a spiritual awakening, many individuals become aware of the Yin and Yang energies within them. Through rigorous training and introspection, they can tap into and utilize their Yin and Yang. In addition to strengthening their mind and body, those that achieve a high level of mastery can externalize their Yin and Yang to manipulate the elements and even the Yin and Yang of individuals around them. The way these powers manifest is often closely linked to the pilgrim’s spiritual journey and moral compass. Traditions The quest for Enlightenment is deeply personal and individual. The exact tenets and beliefs imprinted on a pilgrim vary from individual to individual. Some believe it their duty to help the less fortunate and better the world through altruistic acts, while others see themselves as enforcers of cosmic balance attempting to eliminate any force that would upset that balance. Citizens of Rokugan tend to know little of pilgrims and their powers, but most have heard at least one folk tale involving a change of heart spurred by a wanderer’s wise words or the unassuming mountain hermit using supernatural abilities to defend innocent villagers from calamity. Rokugan contains a number of philosophical organizations dedicated to this quest. Many pilgrims don’t have an affiliation with these organizations and philosophies, but some do. The Brotherhood of Shinsei. There are numerous monasteries across Rokugan where those who wish to seek Enlightenment can live alongside like-minded individuals in cloistered communities. Some of these monasteries are secluded away in high mountains or the wilderness, while others are in cities, where their inhabitants do good works in the hopes of bettering the lives of their fellow people. The teachings of Shinsei are interpreted in many ways, and some pilgrims find their way to their quest for Enlightenment by joining—or leaving—a group of monks. The Perfect Land Sect. One particularly significant religious group is the Perfect Land Sect. Based on a particular interpretation of Shinsei’s teachings, the Perfect Land Sect believes in the attainment of a “Perfect Land” within the afterlife within a single lifetime and rejects the Rokugani Celestial Order that most traditions embrace. This has put this sect in conflict with both other followers of Shinsei and with various samurai lords. A pilgrim from this sect might take their cosmic experience as a sign that the Perfect Land can indeed be reached, or they might be frustrated that they have been seemingly singled out by the cosmos when they are in truth no better than anyone else. Study of the Elements. Some pilgrims find their way to cosmic knowledge through study of Isawa’s treatise, Elements . Seeing the ways that the elements of Air, Earth, Fire, Water, and Void can be understood through the contrast of Yin and Yang can lead a scholar with an open mind to this path. This document is part of most curriculums within the Phoenix Clan and read widely by many spiritualists across Rokugan. Those Who Wander Many pilgrims come to their journeys all on their own without seeking Enlightenment through some prior philosophy or organization. A martial artist who stands for hours beneath a waterfall to train endurance might suddenly feel a surge of the energy that sustains them, or a battlefield medic might see the life vanishing from their patient’s eyes and find a way to give some of their own to replace it. Individuals who have these experiences might seek out orders that profess a path to Enlightenment to try to understand their newfound powers, or they might eschew them entirely, preferring to learn on their own terms. Quick Builds Generally, make Constitution your highest ability score, as you derive both offensive and defensive benefits from improving your endurance and the flow of energy within your body. Depending on the cosmic path you intend to pursue at 2nd level, select Charisma (Path of Redemption), Wisdom (Path of Balance), or Intelligence (Path of Justice) as your next highest ability score. Several iconic pilgrims can be found in the more detailed quick builds provided in the Backgrounds section, such as the Asako Loremaster and Agasha Mystic. Table 2-7: The Pilgrim Level Proficiency Bonus Features Cultivated Potential Bonus Hit Dice 1st +2 Cultivated Potential, Strength of Body and Spirit 1 2nd +2 Battle Meditation, Yin and Yang, Externalizations, Pilgrim Archetype 1 3rd +2 Pilgrim Archetype Feature 2 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 2 5th +3 Boundless Vitality, Well of Strength 3 6th +3 Pilgrim Archetype Feature 3 7th +3 Forms of Enlightenment 4 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 9th +4 Advanced Externalizations 5 10th +4 Well of Strength (Improved) 5 11th +4 Pilgrim Archetype Feature 6 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement, Pilgrim Archetype Feature (Improved) 6 13th +5 Technique Chaining 7 14th +5 Eyes of Dawn and Dusk 7 15th +5 Boundless Vitality (Improved) 8 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 8 17th +6 Pilgrim Archetype Feature 9 18th +6 Well of Strength (Improved) 9 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 10 20th +6 Battle Meditation (Improved), Pilgrim Archetype Feature (Improved) 10 Class Features As a pilgrim, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per pilgrim level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per pilgrim level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: None Weapons: Simple Weapons Tools: Choose one type of artisan’s tools of your choice Saving Throws: Constitution, Wisdom Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Athletics, History, Insight, Medicine, Religion, Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) traveling clothes or (b) unremarkable garb. (a) any simple weapon. Cultivated Potential Beginning at 1st level, you gain an additional Hit Die (d8). Hit Dice gained through this feature do not increase your maximum hit points, but can be used normally to heal during short rests or used by effects that require Hit Dice to be expended. The amount of additional Hit Dice increases as you gain pilgrim levels, as shown in the Cultivated Potential column of the Pilgrim table. Strength of Body and Spirit Beginning at 1st level, while you are wearing no armor and not wielding a shield, your AC equals 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your Constitution modifier. Additionally, you are proficient with your unarmed attacks. You can use your Constitution modifier instead of your Strength modifier for the attack and damage rolls of your unarmed attacks, and you use a d4 in place of the normal damage of your unarmed strike. Yin and Yang Starting at 2nd level, you gain access to a unique resource meter: a balance track to reflect your Yin and Yang energy. Yin energy is covert, shadowy, receding, and palliative, evoking the power of the moon and the starry sky. Yang energy is overt, bright, advancing, and direct, evoking the glowing rays of the sun. Both are part of what it is to be alive, and both exist in all aspects of the universe in an eternal, swaying balance. A pilgrim’s energy travels along a seven-state balance track. In addition to having a passive bonus for being in that state, each state has a Yin and a Yang value that is used by some externalization abilities. The effects of each state are shown, below. Unless your cosmic path feature gained at 2nd level states otherwise, you begin each combat in the balanced state. At the end of each combat encounter, you return to your resting position on the Yin-Yang scale. Normally this is in the balanced position, but the cosmic path you choose can change this resting position. You can adjust your Yin and Yang state freely while out of combat. Certain effects adjust your energy one or more steps along the scale, usually toward the Yin or Yang apex as specified. This shift in your energy is mandatory unless the effect specifies otherwise. You can’t benefit from the bonuses granted to you by the Yin and Yang Balance Track if you are wearing armor. Battle Meditation Starting at 2nd level, you can use your bonus action to move one step in either direction along the Yin-Yang track. At 20th level, when you use this feature, you can move up to two steps instead. Table 2-8: Yin and Yang State Yin Yang Effects Yang Apex 0 4 You gain a +2 bonus to damage with unarmed attacks Yang Rising 1 3 You gain a +1 bonus to damage with unarmed attacks Neutral Energy: Path of Justice Resting Position 2 2 You gain a +2 bonus to passive Perception Neutral Energy: Path of Harmony Resting Position 2 2 You gain a +2 bonus to all of your saving throws Neutral Energy: Path of Redemption Resting Position 2 2 You gain a +2 bonus to passive Perception Yin Flowing 3 1 When you regain HP or cause another creature to regain HP, add +1 to the total Yin Apex 4 0 When you regain HP or cause another creature to regain HP, add +2 to the total Externalizations Starting at 2nd level, you can focus your emotions and energy through powerful techniques known as externalizations. Externalizations. Externalizations allow a pilgrim to project their energy out into the world around themselves to produce miraculous effects. Unlike the power of a ritualist, which is invoked from spirits and gods in the world, a pilgrim’s abilities are manifested by resonating their inner energy with the elements of the outer world. When a pilgrim uses an externalization, their energy shifts toward the other pole of Yin or Yang to balance out the change they have affected in the world. Externalizations are amplified by the pilgrim’s current Yin value or Yang value. To activate an externalization, you must spend 1 or more Hit Dice, and Hit Dice acquired by transforming into a different creature cannot be used this way. At 3rd level, you learn the following externalizations: Impetus of Rejuvenation You amplify a creature’s Yin energy, helping its body to heal itsel f rapidly. Activation : 1 action Ra nge: Touch Effects: You can spend your action to choose yourself or another creature within range. If you chose yourself, you can spend and roll a number of your Hit Dice up to your Yin value and immediately regain hit points equal to the total value of those Hit Dice + your Constitution modifier. Alternately, if you chose another creature, you and that creature can spend and roll one or more Hit Dice. These Hit Dice can come from you and that creature in any combination, but cannot exceed your Yin value in total. The chosen creature regains hit points equal to total result of the rolled dice + your Constitution modifier. Energy Shift: Move your energy one step toward the Yang apex for each result of 5 or higher among the Hit Dice the creature rolled. Resonating Strike You infuse your Yang energy into a strike, causing it to reverberate throughout the foe’s body and inflicting ong oing harm. Activation : 1 action Ra nge: Touch Effects: You can spend your action to make an unarmed attack against a creature in range. On a hit, you can roll and spend a number of Hit Dice up to your Yang value. At the end of its next turn, your target suffers radiant damage equal to 1d6 + your Constitution modifier. It suffers this radiant damage again at the end of each of its turns for number of rounds equal to the highest result among the Hit Dice you rolled. Using resonating strike on a creature already suffering from its effects does not increase the damage dealt but instead increases the number of rounds they are affected by the highest result among the Hit Dice you rolled. At 10th level, the damage is increased by an additional 1d6. Energy Shift: Move your energy one step toward the Yin apex for each result of 5 or higher among the Hit Dice you rolled. Externalization Attack Modifier. Some of your externalizations call for you to make an attack roll. Your attack modifier for these is calculated as described below: Externalization Attack Modifier = Your proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier Externalization Save DC. Some of your externalizations call for your targets to make a saving throw. The DC of this saving throw is calculated as described below: Externalization Save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your cosmic path’s attribute modifier (Charisma for Path of Redemption, Wisdom for Path of Harmony, and Intelligence for Path of Justice) Cosmic Path At 2nd level, you commit yourself to a cosmic path. Choose the Path of Redemption, Path of Harmony, or Path of Justice, detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 11th, 17th and 20th level. Boundless Vitality Starting at 5th level, you suffer the effects of exhaustion as if you had one fewer levels of exhaustion. For example, if you have two levels of exhaustion, you suffer only the penalties of having one level, and if you have one level, you do not suffer any penalties at all. Additionally, when you complete a long rest, your exhaustion level decreases by two instead of one. Starting at 15th level, you suffer the effects of exhaustion as if you had two less levels of exhaustion. Well of Strength Starting at 5th level, you are able to push yourself past the physical limitations that restrain most people. On your turn, you can spend your full movement and gain one level of exhaustion to recover up to two of your expended Hit Dice. The amount of recovered Hit Dice increases to four at 10th, and six at 18th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Forms of Enlightenment Starting at 7th level, you can use your bonus action to enter a form of enlightenment. You can only enter a given form if you meet its Yin and Yang requirements. Activating a form of enlightenment ends the effect of any other form of enlightenment you had previously entered. At the beginning of your turn, you can choose to exit your current form of enlightenment. Each form of enlightenment has different effects. Form of Air You align your Yin energy to the wind and sky, moving in tune with the subtle gra ce of air. Activation Requirements: Yin flowing or Yin apex state While in the Form of Air, gain the following effects: Your walking speed increases by 10 feet. At the end of your turn, if you have moved more than 30 feet, you gain a bonus to your Armor Class against ranged attacks equal to half your proficiency bonus (rounded down) until the start of your next turn. When you make a Dexterity check or Dexterity saving throw, after rolling the die, you can spend one Hit Die to roll it and add it to the result. At the end of your turn, move your energy one step toward the Yang apex, then if you are in the Yang rising or the Yang apex state, exit this form. Form of Earth You align your Yang energy to the subtle shifts of the earth, letting you move with inexorabl e purpose. Activation Requirements: Yang rising or Yang apex state While in Form of Earth, gain the following effects: When you take nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, reduce the total damage by your proficiency bonus. When you make a Constitution check or Constitution saving throw, after rolling the die, you can spend one Hit Die to roll it and add it to the result. At the end of your turn, move your energy one step toward the Yin apex, then if you are in the Yin rising or the Yin apex state, exit this form. Form of Fire You align your Yang energy to flame, and your power bursts forth from your body in torrent s of heat. Activation Requirements: Yang rising or Yang apex state While in Form of Fire, gain the following effects: When you hit a creature with an unarmed attack or externalization that deals damage, it takes additional fire damage equal to 1d4 + your proficiency bonus. When you make a Strength check or Strength saving throw, after rolling the die, you can spend one Hit Die to roll it and add it to the result. At the end of your turn, move your energy one step toward the Yin apex, then if you are in the Yin rising or the Yin apex state, exit this form. Form of Water You align your Yin energy to flowing water, letting you shift from stillness to rapid movement with the speed of a ripp ling pond. Activation Requirements: Yin flowing or Yin apex state While in Form of Water, gain the following effects: When you use an externalization or pilgrim feature that rolls Hit Dice, you can add or subtract your proficiency bonus to the result of one Hit Die rolled. You gain a second reaction each round. You cannot use more than one reaction per turn. When you make a Charisma check or Charisma saving throw, after rolling the die, you can spend one Hit Die to roll it and add it to the result. At the end of your turn, move your energy one step toward the Yang apex, then if you are in the Yang rising or the Yang apex state, exit this form. Form of Void You align your inner energies with the Void, the emptiness that is, paradoxically, the summation of the other four elements. Activation Requirements: Balanced state While in Form of Void, gain the following effects: When you hit a creature with an unarmed attack or externalization that deals damage, you can cause it to lose one of the following: 1 focus point, 1 favor, 1 intrigue die, an unused spell slot of the defender’s choice with level lower than or equal to your proficiency bonus, or another class or archetype resource at the GM’s discretion. If it has abilities with the Recharge keyword, the GM chooses one of those abilities to exhaust. When you make a Wisdom check or Wisdom saving throw, after rolling the die, you can spend one Hit Die to roll it and add it to the result. At the end of your turn, you must move one step toward your choice of the Yin or Yang apex, then if you are in a state other than balanced, exit this form. Advanced Externalizations At 9th level gain access to the following externalizations: Cleansing Touch You project your Yin energy into another person, dispelling a malaise or condition from them. Activation : 1 action Ra nge: Touch Effects: You can spend your action to choose a number of creatures in range up to your Constitution modifier. Spend and roll a number of Hit Dice up to your Yin value. For each die that is of the listed value or higher, you can remove one of the following conditions from a chosen character: 4 or higher: bleeding, disoriented, distracted, provoked 5 or higher: blinded, charmed, deafened, maimed, weakened 6 or higher: frightened, paralyzed, poisoned 7 or higher: invisible, marked for death, petrified 8 or higher: any one ongoing effect of a spell, invocation, externalization, or other magical effect the GM deems appropriate Energy Shift: Move your energy one step toward the Yang apex for each result of 5 or higher among the Hit Dice you rolled. Fearsome Leap You launch yourself forward with a burst of Yang energy, soaring upward with impressive velocity. Activation: 1 bonus action R ange: Self Effects: You can spend your bonus action on your turn to make a heroic leap or extend a jump you already began as part of an action (or any other way). Spend and roll a number of Hit Dice up to your Yang value. You leap 10 feet + 5 feet for each Hit Die with a result of 5 or higher, or extend your leap by that distance. You can’t be the target of opportunity attacks during this movement. When you land, you suffer no falling damage, and each creature within a 5-foot-sphere around you must make a Dexterity saving throw. On failure, a creature suffers radiant damage equal to the sum of the Hit Dice rolled and the disoriented condition (it can’t make opportunity attacks) until the end of your next turn. On a successful save they take half damage instead. Energy Shift: Move your energy one step toward the Yin apex for each result of 5 or higher among the Hit Dice you rolled. Infuse Energy You touch a creature and amplify its Yang energy, empowering its next strike to superhuma n heights. Activation: 1 bonus action Ra nge: Touch Effects: You can spend your bonus action to choose yourself or another creature within 5 feet. Spend and roll a number of Hit Dice up to your Yang value. The chosen creature’s next attack roll or multitarget attack roll before the end of its next turn has advantage, and the creature gains a bonus to damage equal to the total of the rolled Hit Dice + your Constitution modifier. Additionally, the creature’s walking speed is increased by 10 feet until the end of its next turn. Energy Shift: Move your energy one step toward the Yin apex for each result of 5 or higher among the Hit Dice you rolled. Technique Chaining Starting at 13th level, you become capable of chaining your strikes and externalizations together in rapid succession. Once per turn after you perform an externalization, you can make an unarmed attack, or you can expend one Hit Die to perform an additional externalization you have not performed this turn. You cannot perform the same externalization twice this way. E yes of Dawn and Dusk At 14th level, you gain proficiency in Wisdom (Perception) checks and can’t be blinded by sources of light, and can see creatures and spirits in their true form. Additionally, you gain darkvision out to a range of 60 feet., and tremorsense to a range of 20 feet. Finally, you have advantage on checks and saving throws to perceive the truth behind illusions. Pilgrim Archetypes The following are three types of pilgrim. They are not the only types of pilgrims found in Rokugan, but they are some of the most iconic. Path of Redemption Path of Harmony Path of Justice

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

