# Priest

**description**: Though you have not been granted the divine purpose of an adventuring cleric, you have nevertheless been ordained as a priest to one of the many gods. Your lot is that of a quieter life with the church: conducting services, looking after your congregation, performing community rituals, and other administrative duties. Even when whisked off into adventuring, your posture is that of an unassuming reverend, not an evangelizing cleric or crusading paladin. Prerequisites: Must be ordained by some faith Hit Dice: 1d8 Hit Points: 1d8 (5) + your Constitution modifier Skills: Religion Spellcasting This auxiliary level counts as a level in your Spellcasting or Pact Magic class (if you have a level in such a class) for the purpose of determining your available spell slots. However, it doesn’t advance your spells known and prepared. For example, if you are a Wizard 2/Priest, you have four 1st-level spell slots and two 2nd-level spell slots, but you only know 1st-level spells. Bonus Cantrips You learn the spare the dying cantrip and one additional cantrip of your choice from the cleric spell list. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for these spells. Channel Divinity You gain the ability to channel divine energy directly from your deity, using that energy to fuel magical effects. You start with two such effects: Faith Healing and Turn Undead. When you use your Channel Divinity, you choose which effect to create. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Channel Divinity again. Some Channel Divinity effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier. Faith Healing. As an action, you can present your holy symbol and touch a willing Humanoid creature to mend its wounds. The creature rolls a number of d8s equal to half your level (rounded down) and regains that many hit points + your Wisdom modifier. This feature has no effect on Undead or Constructs. Turn Undead. As an action, you present your holy symbol and speak a prayer censuring the Undead. Each Undead that can see or hear you within 30 feet of you must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails its saving throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Valda's Spire of Secrets

