# Ritualist

**description**: Ritualists are characters who wield a rare talent: the ability to speak to the many spirits that inhabit Rokugan and the lands beyond. Through rigorous training in mystical secrets, a unique individual relationship with a spirit, or innate inclination, some people are capable of invocations. Each of these techniques is an appeal to a particular spirit or elemental force, drawing its power into the Mortal Realm as the ritualist desires. Clan Traditions Each of the Great Clans has at least one ritualist tradition, and these groups protect their secrets and the spiritual power they wield carefully. Crab Clan Traditions. The Kuni Purifiers master knowledge and prayers to deny the Shadowlands forces any foothold inside the Empire. To this end, they have specialized in invocations to the earth spirits to vanquish beings of the Shadowlands. From the time of their school’s founding, the Kuni Purifiers have sought to understand the nature of the threat the Crab Clan must combat. This has led them down dangerous paths, and no small number have fallen to the very corruption they study. Unlike most ritualist traditions, Kuni Purifiers have no central academy or place of learning; instead, each Purifier takes on one student at a time, training them as an apprentice as they journey across Crab lands and beyond seeking threats to Rokugan. Crane Clan Traditions. Art and religion intertwine for the Asahina family, for to them, faith, beauty, and peace are all aspects of the same truth. Once a part of the Phoenix Clan, the Asahina family split to join the Crane Clan in centuries past, and has become especially philosophical in its teachings in the time since. The family’s doctrine teaches that through the creation of works of arcane artistry, their students can enrich the world around them and improve the lives of everyone. While they are capable of fighting, the Asahina family teaches that pacifism is the best solution to many problems, and so many Asahina Artificers prefer to focus on healing and defense in their invocations, as well as the creation of ornate charms to protect and guide their holders. Dragon Clan Traditions. The Agasha Mystics mix practical knowledge with their invocations, using alchemical items and metallurgy as foci for their mystical arts. Through this, they have learned to distill invocations into potions that they can imbibe or throw for powerful effect. Their chemical expertise enhances their magic further, which they use for everything from simple entertainment to warfare. Unlike some of the more cloistered traditions of ritualists, Agasha Mystics are encouraged by their teachers to venture out into the world, looking for new inspiration from nature in all its multitude of forms. Lion Clan Traditions. The smallest of the ritualist traditions of the Great Clans, the Kitsu Medium School maintains close relationships with many ancestral spirits who exist in the afterlife. This mystical connection to their forebears gives them unique insights into spiritual matters, allowing a single ritualist to channel lifetimes of experience. Kitsu Mediums are the living bridge between the Lion Clan’s past and the present, surpassing even mortality and time with their mystical secrets. Phoenix Clan Traditions. No tradition has a more complete mastery of the way of the spirits than that of the Isawa Elementalist School. Since their ancestors arrived in the land that would become Rokugan ,the priests of the Isawa tradition have sought knowledge and understanding of the spirits of the land, the Celestial Realms, and the very elements themselves. Their students train in elemental academies, each dedicated to learning how best to channel the spirits of a particular element. Another very different tradition of ritualists also exists within the Phoenix Clan. Kaito Shrine Keepers are the caretakers of an ancient tradition of liaising with the spirits from before the foundation of Rokugan. They work alongside priests to protect temples across Phoenix lands, or keep shrines on their own where they teach their traditions. The Kaito learn mystical arts to propitiate the spirits—sometimes even serving as vessels for them—and practical ones to maintain the shrines. Shrine Keepers make use of magic such as inscribed paper charms and spiritually enhanced soul-star arrows to defend their shrines against threats both mystical and mundane. Scorpion Clan Traditions . The Soshi Illusionist School is the school of whispers and shadows. “Subtlety” is the illusionists’ watchword as they go about their tasks. Even their religious rituals and duties tend to be understated, though they are no less faithfully executed. Their illusions are the finest in the Emerald Empire—so effective, in fact, that few people realize just how lifelike they are, having perhaps seen them in use without ever registering it. Far less subtle than the Soshi tradition but no less important, the Yogo Wardmaster dōjō is the Empire’s foremost school of supernatural warding through mystical calligraphy. Entrusted with the protection of the twelve Black Scrolls at the dawn of the Empire and many other dangerous artifacts since, the Yogo developed their founder’s techniques to prevent the scrolls’ detection by the malevolent powers of the world. By inscribing sigils of power onto slips of paper, they can prepare invocations in advance to be ready for any contingency. Unicorn Clan Traditions. The Unicorn understanding of magic and the spirits has been greatly influenced by their years exploring outside the Empire, and the making of magical artifacts remains the focus of their craft, the way of names. Using words of power learned during their foreign journeys, they call forth the powers of spirits. Their particular spiritual art makes the Iuchi one of the most open-minded of ritualist traditions, seeking out and using novel forms of spiritual power. Many members of the Unicorn Clan have also adopted the religious traditions of the Ujik peoples of the Plains of Wind and Stone, such as their reverence of deities of earth and sky, as well as the Lords of Death, benevolent ancestral protectors said to ride alongside the Ujik as they guide their herds or march to battle. Othe r Religious Figures Not every priest, shrine attendant, or other religious figure in Rokugan is a ritualist in the sense of being able to channel mystical powers. Many of these individuals pursue the social and theological aspects of religion without using powerful or flashy invocations, and are important members of their community. In fact, trained ritualists capable of performing invocations are quite rare, and only the Great Clans and other samurai of rank are likely to have access to such individuals on demand. A village priest is unlikely to be a ritualist in a mechanical sense, and while a spirit might come to their aid, it would likely do so in the manner of its choosing rather than responding directly to their invocation. Speak ers of the Wild On the other hand, some people who wield the power of invocations have received no formal religious training at all. These spiritualists, diviners, and sages have instead developed a knack for quickly building positive relationships with the spirits in the world around them. Usually untrained in formal rites or versed in secret knowledge, they use their powers more intuitively. Many have a uniquely close bond with a specific spirit whose power they can invoke, but do not know as many different spirits or the offerings and acts needed to wield their power. Their methods are often individualized, created entirely by trial and error and thus very well-tailored to their specific needs or that of their community. Some ritualists see individuals such as these as a threat to their own position of spiritual authority, while others recognize that they often develop unique insights or knowledge that other ritualists can learn a great deal by studying. Quick Builds Determine the archetype you intend to pursue at 2nd level, then make the corresponding ability score your highest ability score (Intelligence for Elementalist, Wisdom for Medium, or one of several options for Artisan based on your chosen art). If you want to wield your invocations alongside ranged or melee attacks, make Strength or Dexterity your next highest ability score. If you intend to fight entirely with your powers, make Constitution your next highest score instead. Several iconic ritualists of Rokugan can be found in the more detailed quick builds provided in the Backgrounds section, such as the Kuni Purifier, Kitsu Medium, and Isawa Elementalist. Table 2-5: The Ritualist Level Proficiency Bonus Features Maximum Favor Tier 1 Invocations Tier 2 Invocations Tier 3 Invocations 1st +2 Invocations and Favor 3 2 — — 2nd +2 Ritualist Archetype 3 3 — — 3rd +2 Channeling 3 4 1 — 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 5 1 — 5th +3 Ritualist Archetype Feature 4 5 2 — 6th +3 — 4 5 2 1 7th +3 — 4 6 2 1 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 6 3 1 9th +4 Ritualist Archetype Feature 5 7 3 1 10th +4 Instinctive Invocation 5 7 4 1 11th +4 — 5 7 4 2 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 5 8 4 2 13th +5 Ritualist Archetype Feature 6 8 5 2 14th +5 — 6 8 5 3 15th +5 — 6 9 5 3 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 6 9 6 3 17th +6 — 7 9 6 4 18th +6 Practiced Appeals 7 10 6 4 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 7 10 7 4 20th +6 Ritualist Archetype Feature, Instinctive Invocation 7 10 7 5 Class Features As a ritualist, you gain the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d6 per ritualist level Hit Points at 1st Level: 6 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d6 (or 4) + your Constitution modifier per ritualist level after the 1st Proficiencies Armor: None Weapons: Simple weapons Tools: Choose one mystic implement Saving Throws: Wisdom, Charisma Skills: Choose two skills from Arcana, History, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Nature, Perception, Performance, Persuasion, Religion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted to you by your background: (a) resplendent regalia or (b) sanctified vestments or (c) traveler’s clothes. (a) any one simple melee weapon or (b) a hunting bow, 20 willow-leaf arrows, and a dagger. Any one artisan tool. Any one mystic implement. Invocations and Favor You have access to powerful invocations, allowing you to call upon the might of the spirits to protect yourself, smite your foes, or perform supernatural feats. Invocations have five possible elements (Any, Air, Earth, Fire, or Water) and several possible tiers that become available to you as you progress in level (tier 0, tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3). Favor Invocations reflect a bond between yourself and various spirits, and favor is an abstract reflection of the willingness of spirits to go above and beyond to assist you. Invocations reflect a bond between yourself and various spirits, and favor is an abstract reflection of the willingness of spirits to aid you. When you perform an invocation, you must spend favor equal to its base favor cost to perform it. Additionally, you can spend additional favor to add potent effects to the invocation. You start with an amount of favor determined by your ritualist level, shown in the Maximum Favor column of the Ritualist table. Spent favor is restored after you complete a long rest or after you spend at least four hours performing tasks to spiritually align yourself in a spiritually active place like a shrine or pristine glen. These tasks might include quiet contemplation, making small offerings, or conversation with a spirit you know well. Picking Invocations for Ritualists If it’s your first time building a ritualist and you’re feeling overwhelmed by the options for tier 1 invocations, consider selecting the following options to start: Call of Cinders. This invocation lets you inflict fire damage on your foes, giving you a solid ranged attack as part of your arsenal. It can also be used to light and extinguish fires, which is often useful while adventuring. Path to Inner Peace. This invocation stimulates a wounded ally’s natural healing, helping them to recover more quickly from harm. Invocations Known You know the following tier 0 invocations: commune with the spirits , divine the omens , and threshold barrier . You also know two tier 1 invocations of your choice. The Invocations Known columns of the Ritualist table shows when you learn more invocations of your choice. Each of these invocations must be of a tier that is available to you, as shown on that table. Additionally, when you gain a level in this class, you can choose one of the invocations you know and replace it with another invocation of the same tier. Save DC and Attack Modifier Different ritualists practice in different ways; some are studious scholars of sacred texts, others are spiritualists who find the sacred in the mundane world, and others still are bombastic orators who persuade people and spirits alike through their personal charisma. Choose Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma as your invocation ability. You use this ability score whenever an invocation refers to your invocation ability. In addition, you use this ability score’s modifier when setting the saving throw DC for an invocation you perform and when making an invocation attack roll. Invocation save DC = 8 + proficiency bonus + chosen ability score modifier Invocation attack modifier = proficiency bonus + chosen ability score modifier Ritualist Tradition At 2nd level, you choose an archetype that reflects your way of wielding your influence. Choose Artisan, Elementalist, or Medium, detailed at the end of this class description. The tradition you choose grants you features at 2nd level, and again at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 20th level. Channeling At 3rd level, your spiritual bonds deepen. Once per day when you finish a short rest, you can recover favor equal to your proficiency bonus or your ritualist level, whichever is lower. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Instinctive Invocation At 10th level, in addition to using the invocations you have learned, your spiritual potency allows you to instinctively reach out to unfamiliar spirits in times of need. You can perform one invocation of your choice that you do not know, treating its base favor cost as double. After you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you complete a long rest. Practiced Appeals Starting at 18th level, you know how to reach even faraway spirits with your words. You can spend your action to gain favor equal to your proficiency bonus. You can’t use this feature again until you complete a long rest. Ritualist Archetypes There are many different spiritual practices of Rokugan and the neighboring lands. Each family that maintains a school or tradition for training ritualists seeks to uncover new secrets while protecting the mystical knowledge it has obtained from its rivals. As such, there is a high degree of divergence between spiritual traditions. Some are skillful Artisans who craft potent artifacts imbued with the power of spirits. Others are Elementalists who channel spiritual powers more directly, hurling gouts of flame or walking on air. Still others are Mediums who draw spiritual powers into themselves, summoning the strength of spiritual guardians to battle or accessing knowledge from beyond their own senses’ reach. Artisan Elementalist Medium

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

