# Sentinel

**description**: A stonefang matokai writhes through a hail of enemy fire in a shimmering blur, cleaving into her enemy with a furious blow. A heavily armored kesh stands toe to toe with a gigantic mecharoid, blocking enemy fire while his companions attack from afar. Her body aglow with solar energy, a scorched human unleashes a searing beam from her blade into kotatu stalker, sending the startled beast to the ground. Where many espers manipulate energies or make use of tools and drones, sentinels directly integrate themselves with their sorium device, transforming themselves into powerhouses of force, mighty defenders, and unyielding avengers. Enhanced Through Biotech The calling of an esper is seen differently through the eyes of a sentinel. Their complete integration with sorium-based tech has not only changed their perspective of the world around them, but gifted them with a realization of who they truly are. Each sentinel has a personalized harness that fuses matter with their physical form. This biomolecular bond with the cosmic material is a jolt to a sentinel’s senses, channeling power directly from the sun and stars above. Some believe such an alien bond would take away a piece of one’s soul. Whether this is true or not, a sentinel wouldn’t have it any other way. Honoring the Code On the surface, many sentinels can be mistaken as brutes who exchanged a bit of their humanity to become war machines. This is the far from true for any sentinel. No sentinel sees themselves as just any merc or tech-slinging goon. Whenever a sentinel attunes with their harness, they gain a greater sense of purpose— almost as if they are a part of a secret order, hidden within their universe. Whether it is for the benefit of others or their own is different for each sentinel, but all are connected somehow by this silent contract to which they are bound. Those who understand the nature of sentinels know full well that it is this code that makes them something more than just common brutes. Creating a Sentinel Upon choosing to create a sentinel, decide what level of integration your character has with their sorium harness, as well as how it affects your appearance and lifestyle. Some sentinels keep their harness concealed or cover them up, while others display their augmentations proudly, even decorating them with matching trinkets or attachments. Ability Scores Strength should be your highest ability score, followed by Charisma. Dexterity and Constitution are both useful as a tertiary option. The Sentinel Level Proficiency Bonus Features — Tech Slots per Technique Rank — 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 1st +2 Sentinel's Rig, Regenerative Force, Weapon Link — — — — — 2nd +2 Fighting Style, Forging, Infused Strike 2 — — — — 3rd +2 Cellular Resistance, Sentinel's Path 3 — — — — 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 — — — — 5th +3 Extra Attack 4 2 — — — 6th +3 Multi-User Tactical Display 4 2 — — — 7th +3 Sentinel's Path feature 4 3 — — — 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 3 — — — 9th +4 — 4 3 2 — — 10th +4 Expanded Tactical Display 4 3 2 — — 11th +4 Amplified Strike 4 3 3 — — 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 4 3 3 — — 13th +5 — 4 3 3 1 — 14th +5 Pattern Absorption 4 3 3 1 — 15th +5 Sentinel's Path feature 4 3 3 2 — 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 4 3 3 2 — 17th +6 — 4 3 3 3 1 18th +6 Tactical Display improvements 4 3 3 3 1 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 4 3 3 3 2 20th +6 Sentinel's Path feature 4 3 3 3 2 Class Features As a sentinel, you have the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice : 1d10 per sentinel level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per sentinel level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: All armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: Cybersmith’s tools Saving Throws: Charisma, Constitution Skills: Choose two from Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Mechanics, Medicine, Perception and Persuasion Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons (a) 10 throwing knives or (b) any simple weapon (a) heavy trooper armor or (b) medium trooper armor (a) a soldier’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack a sentinel’s rig Sentinel’s Rig At 1st level, You have a personalized rig, which is fitted with a set of sorium materials, tools, and attachments used to activate and implement your techniques. Your rig is integrated into your body, most often taking the form of a metallic harness bound to your torso. It is considered to be a part of your body and cannot be removed. You can use your bonus action and expend a tech slot to make your rig invisible to mundane senses, but it is still detectable by special senses such as truesight and talents such as esper sense . Your rig remains hidden for a number of hours equal to your sentinel level or until you lose your concentration (as if you were concentrating on an esper power). Once you reach 5th level, concealing your rig no longer requires you to expend a tech slot. When your rig is hidden in this way, you cannot use any techniques or your weapon link feature (see the Weapon Link feature described later). Between Body and Harness There have been many theories on what truly happens when a sentinel integrates with their harness, which draws its power from the stars and celestial bodies between them. It is a far more extensive bond then those who are fitted with sorium implants. Scientists who study the effects of the Crucibles have always believed they are imbued with a programming code which even the most brilliant of scientists have only scratched the surface toward fully understanding. However, going upon their basic theory, the integration of the sorium harness and its connection to the Crucibles may be the source of this inner voice that guides each sentinel toward their path. Whether this is just some base code within the Crucibles themselves, or perhaps even a form of AI, no one can truly say for certain. Regenerative Force Starting at 1st level, you can use the energy stored in your rig to regenerate living tissue. You have a regenerative pool that replenishes when you take a long rest. With that pool, you can restore a total number of hit points equal to your sentinel level x 5. As an action, you can touch a creature and draw power from the pool to restore a number of hit points to that creature, up to the maximum amount remaining in your pool. Alternatively, you can expend 5 hit points from your regenerative pool to cure the target of one disease or neutralize one poison affecting it. You can cure multiple diseases and neutralize multiple poisons with a single use of Regenerative Force, expending hit points separately for each one. This feature has no effect on automatons or constructs. Weapon Link Your rig’s attachments enable you to create a weapon link—a bio-molecular link between your rig and a melee weapon of your choice. Forging a weapon link takes 1 hour, which can be completed during a short rest. You can instantly dismiss your weapon link, the weapon dismantling itself and becoming a part of your harness. You can spend a bonus action to recall the weapon or summon it from any location to appear directly into your hand. Once the weapon has been forged into a weapon link, you cannot be disarmed of that weapon unless you are incapacitated. Your weapon link is instantly dismissed into your rig if it is more than 10 feet away from you. You can have up to two weapon links, but can draw only one at a time with your bonus action. If you attempt to create a weapon link with a third weapon, you must break the link with one of the other two. Fighting Style At 2nd level, you adopt a style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again. Defense While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. Dueling When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon. Great Weapon Fighting When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit. Protection When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be wielding a shield. Range Deterrence If a creature within 5 feet of you makes a ranged weapon attack, you can use your reaction to make an opportunity attack against that creature. Zone Defender As a bonus action, you can enter a defensive stance that lasts until the start of your next turn. While in your defensive stance, you can make opportunity attacks without using your reaction, and you can use your reaction to make a melee attack against a creature that moves more than 5 feet while within your reach. Forging By 2nd level, you have learned to use the energy stored in your rig to power techniques, much like an engineer. Preparing and Using Techniques The Sentinel table shows how many tech slots you have to use for techniques. To activate a technique, you must expend a tech slot of the technique’s rank or higher. You regain all expended tech slots when you finish a long rest. You prepare the list of techniques that are available for you to use, choosing from the sentinel powers list. When you do so, choose a number of techniques equal to your Charisma modifier + half your sentinel level, rounded down (minimum of one technique). The techniques must be of a rank for which you have tech slots. For example, if you are a 5th-level sentinel, you have four rank 1 and two rank 2 tech slots. With a Charisma of 14, your list of prepared techniques can include four rank 1 and rank 2 techniques, in any combination. If you prepare the rank 1 technique mend , you can activate it using a rank 1 or a rank 2 tech slot. Using the technique doesn’t remove it from your list of prepared techniques. You can change your list of prepared techniques when you finish a long rest. Preparing a new list of sentinel techniques for use requires at least 1 minute per technique level for each technique on your list. Forging Ability Charisma is your forging ability for your sentinel techniques, communing with your rig harness to implement your powers. You use your Charisma whenever a technique refers to your forging ability. In addition, you use you Charisma modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a technique you use and when making an attack roll with one. Forging save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier Forging attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier Infused Strike Also beginning at 2nd level, you can cause your weapon link to erupt with cosmic energy during combat. Whenever you use this feature, you can choose between one of the following options: Melee Strike When you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack using your weapon link, you can expend one tech slot to deal radiant damage to the target, in addition to the weapon’s damage. The extra damage is 2d8 for a rank 1 technique slot, plus 1d8 for each slot rank higher than 1, to a maximum of 5d8. The damage increases by 1d8 if the target is an automaton or a construct. Ranged Strike You can use your action to fire a radiant beam from your weapon link at a target within 60 feet of you that you can see. Make a ranged forging attack. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 radiant damage. You can also expend a tech slot to deal additional radiant damage as if you had hit the target with a melee strike. You can perform a ranged strike a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier. You regain all uses after you complete a short or long rest. Cellular Resistance By 3rd level, the cosmic energy flowing through you makes you immune to disease. Sentinel’s Path At 3rd level, you fully integrate with your harness, adopting a path and code of ethics that defines you as a sentinel. Up to this time you had been slowly adopting your true purpose but not yet fully committed to it. Your path not only defines you as an esper, but as the enlightened individual with a true objective in the galaxy. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 15th, and 20th level. Those features include expanded techniques and the Rig Expansion feature. Expanded Powers Each path has a list of associated techniques. You gain access to these techniques at the levels specified in the path description. Once you gain access to one of these techniques, you always have it prepared. They don’t count against the number of techniques you can prepare each day. If your path grants you an esper power that doesn’t appear on the sentinel powers list, the power is nonetheless a sentinel technique for you. Rig Expansion Your rig integration allows you to channel its energy to fuel additional effects. Each Rig Expansion option provided by your path explains how to use it. When you use your Rig Expansion, you choose which option to use. You must then finish a short or long rest to use your Rig Expansion again. Some Rig Expansion effects require saving throws. When you use such an effect from this class, the DC equals your sentinel forging save DC. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Extra Attack Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. Multi-User Tactical Display Starting at 6th level, you can sync with nearby allies, providing them with an augmented reality display of incoming threats. Whenever you or a friendly creature within 10 feet of you is required to make a saving throw, they gain a bonus to the saving throw equal to your Charisma modifier (with a minimum bonus of +1). You must be conscious to grant this bonus. At 18th level, the range of this feature increases to 30 feet. Expanded Tactical Display Starting at 10th level, you and friendly creatures within 10 feet of you can’t be surprised while you are conscious. At 18th level, the range of this feature increases to 30 feet. Amplified Strike By 11th level, you master your attunement with your weapon link, and your weapon strikes carry residual cosmic energy. Whenever you hit a creature with a weapon attack using your weapon link, the creature takes an extra 1d8 radiant damage. If you also use your Infused Strike with your weapon link, you add this damage to the extra damage of your Infused Strike. Pattern Absorption Beginning at 14th level, you can use your action to end the effects of one esper power on yourself or on one willing creature that you touch. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (a minimum of once). You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest. Sentinel Paths The calling of a sentinel is gained upon their first integration with their sorium rig. The cosmic energies within fuse with the sentinel’s inner persona, culminating into a full-fledged evolution when they reach 3rd level. When a sentinel chooses their path, they gain an expanded sense of connection with the very stars spiraling throughout the galaxy, something only that can only be described by other sentinels. Upon this awakening, each sentinel gains their sense of purpose. Path of the Champion Path of the Slayer

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

