# Shinobi

**description**: In the shadows stand those who act as samurai cannot. Beyond the strictures of the Code of Akodo , beyond the laws of society, beyond the polite fictions of court are the knives in the dark: shinobi. These spies, infiltrators, and assassins are often deniable assets, and many were never samurai; however, some members of the samurai caste are trained in these arts, especially among the Scorpion Clan. Most shinobi place loyalty to their lord above all other virtues, forsaking glory and accolades for the certain knowledge that their service is vital to their lord or all of Rokugan itself. Shinobi are masters of espionage and reconnaissance. While the Empire might publicly condemn the use of shinobi, few clans do not secretly train and utilize them. Shinobi tend to be secretive, and they often don disguises or construct secret identities to use while operating. Many shinobi dedicate their talents exclusively to furthering the goals of their lord or clan, others sell their services to the highest bidder, be they lords or criminal organizations. While competent fighters, shinobi tend to avoid head on conflicts. When forced to fight, the shinobi’s preferred method of engagement involves catching their opponents off guard with stealth and a wide array of tools and poisons. Clan Traditions Officially, none of the Great Clans of Rokugan admit to using covert operatives, but the truth is that all of them have agents trained in less-than-chivalrous means. It is widely known that many members of the Scorpion Clan train in such clandestine arts, but all seven Great Clans have their own secretive organizations and traditions they use when necessary. Crab Clan. In its war to contain the spreading corruption of the Shadowlands, the Crab Clan uses many tactics that would face Imperial censure if used against other samurai. The Hiruma family trains its scouts in the arts of poisoning and setting traps to bring down massive Shadowlands horrors, while the Yasuki family’s many business connections include dealings with countless criminal operations across the Emerald Empire. Within the Crab Clan, these are simply viewed as necessities of a constant and never-ending war. Crane Clan. The Crane Clan’s Daidoji family is best known for its heroic heavy infantry, but it also maintains a secret tradition dedicated to battlefield sabotage: the Daidoji Harriers. These covert combat units strike at unprotected supply lines or demolish infrastructure such as bridges, food, or shelter to keep the enemy at bay. Generally deployed amidst larger formations of infantry to disguise their actions, these agents are extremely skilled at tactics that render the greatest impact with the fewest losses on their own side. Dragon Clan. The Dragon Clan’s activities are already shrouded in mystery to the other Great Clans much of the time. While the Dragon Clan has no formal organization for its covert agents, none of its traditions are especially averse to using cover tactics either. From Mirumoto infantry who skirmish using guerilla tactics in the high mountains to Kitsuki-trained magistrates who go undercover in criminal organizations to members of the Togashi Order who travel the land incognito, there are more than a few individuals within the Dragon Clan who know a bit about the shadowy arts of ninjutsu. Lion Clan. The Ikoma family is famous for its bards who sing the glories of history to inspire future generations. But the Ikoma family also knows the importance of unspoken history: thus, a rare few of its bards are also trained in the Ikoma Shadow tradition. While they seem like normal historians and storytellers to outsiders, they are skilled in infiltration, social manipulation, and espionage. For while Akodo is famous for the virtues he espoused, he also understood the importance of surprise in battle, and the Ikoma family has come to embrace this duality. Phoenix Clan. The Phoenix Clan’s covert operatives tend to be individuals rather than members of any continuous tradition. The Shiba family’s code of selfless service to the Isawa means sometimes undertaking tasks that are unpleasant, and so some members of the Shiba family train in skills that help them achieve this goal. Additionally, the Asako family’s scholars include some of the most skillful hunters of heretical sorcerers, and when these agents take to the field, they usually do so via covert means, using any advantage they can to defeat their terrifyingly powerful foes. Scorpion Clan. The Scorpion Clan’s use of covert operatives and unchivalrous tactics is well-known within the Great Clans, but that does not mean that every single member of the Scorpion Clan is trained in these arts. In fact, most members of the Scorpion Clan are bushi, functionaries, bureaucrats, and administrators, much as in any other clan. The Shosuro family in particular is known for its skilled infiltrators and poisoners. The pervasive whisper that any given person might be a covert Scorpion Clan agent does far more work to keep the other Great Clans in check than the actions of individual shinobi ever could. Unicorn Clan. The Unicorn Clan’s superb scouts are well-versed in many skills that can be put to tenebrous use if desired. Tracking, trap-setting, the knowledge of medicines and poisons: all these things are vital to survival in the wilds, and equally vital to a covert agent. Shadowy Missions The Great Clans of Rokugan do not have a monopoly on covert activity, of course. Several of the Minor Clans have their own undercover agents, such as the Speardancers of the Deer Clan and the legendary thieves of the Cat Clan. Criminal organizations in cities often employ individuals skilled in what could be termed shinobi arts, and hunters in the wild places of Rokugan must often learn these skills simply to survive. Additionally, some shinobi are mercenaries, fighting not for the ideal of loyalty but for coin or some personal ideal or motive. Quick Builds Make Dexterity your highest ability score. Depending on the archetype you choose, Intelligence (Saboteur archetype) or Charisma (Infiltrator archetype) is also valuable. Make Constitution a tertiary ability score, as shinobi risk being caught in difficult situations in which endurance is required. A number of iconic shinobi of Rokugan can be found in the more detailed quick builds provided in the Backgrounds section, such as the Hiruma Skirmisher and Bayushi Manipulator. Table 2-4: The Shinobi Level Proficiency Bonus Merciless Strikes Ninja Tools Features 1st +2 1d4 per condition, Max 2d4 2 Merciless Strikes, Ninjutsu, Expert Prowler 2nd +2 1d4 per condition, Max 2d4 2 Nimble 3rd +2 2d4 per condition, Max 4d4 2 Shinobi Archetype 4th +2 2d4 per condition, Max 4d4 2 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 2d4 per condition, Max 6d4 2 Quick Hands 6th +3 2d4 per condition, Max 6d4 3 Escape Artist 7th +3 2d6 per condition, Max 6d6 3 Crescent Slash 8th +3 2d6 per condition, Max 6d6 3 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 3d4 per condition, Max 9d4 3 Shinobi Archetype Feature 10th +4 3d4 per condition, Max 9d4 3 Ability Score Improvement 11th +4 2d8 per condition, Max 6d8 4 Vigilant Mind 12th +4 2d8 per condition, Max 6d8 4 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 3d6 per condition, Max 9d6 4 Shinobi Archetype Feature (or Improvement) 14th +5 3d6 per condition, Max 9d6 4 Venom-Tested Constitution 15th +5 3d6 per condition, Max 12d6 4 Crescent Slash (Two Uses) 16th +5 3d6 per condition, Max 12d6 5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 3d8 per condition, Max 12d8 5 Deathmark 18th +6 3d8 per condition, Max 12d8 5 Shinobi Archetype Feature 19th +6 4d6 per condition, Max 16d6 5 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 4d6 per condition, Max 16d6 5 Defy Death Class Features As a shinobi, you have the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice: 1d8 per shinobi level Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per shinobi level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Simple weapons, shuriken, chain sickle, katana, nunchaku, sai, swordbreaker Tools: Ninja tools, tools of subterfuge Saving Throws: Dexterity, Intelligence Skills: Choose three from Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Intimidation, Investigation, Medicine, Perception, Stealth, Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a katana or (b) a single-edged sword or (c) two sickles or (d) a chain sickle or (e) a nunchaku or (f ) two sai. (a) 10 shuriken or (b) 4 daggers. concealed armor. unremarkable garb. (a) disguise kit or (b) infiltrator’s equipment. Merciless Strikes You have mastered the art of attacking impaired foes. When you make a melee attack against a creature that is suffering from one or more negative conditions, you can deal 1d4 additional damage per negative condition that creature is suffering, to a maximum of 2d4 additional damage. You can use this feature multiple times per turn, but can’t apply it to the same creature more than once per turn. The amount of additional damage per condition and the maximum additional damage increases as you gain levels in this class as shown in the Merciless Strikes column of the Shinobi table. Ninjutsu You are trained in the art of ninjutsu, using cunning tactics, devious devices, and stealth to achieve your ends. Dexterity is your ninjutsu ability score, which you use for both your shinobi abilities and your ninja tools. You use your Dexterity whenever a ninja tool or shinobi feature refers to your ninjutsu ability. Ninja Tools. Further, you can prepare and use a number of ninja tools, which are weapons and devices to help in your clandestine activities. At 1st level, you can have a maximum of two prepared ninja tools, and this number increases with level as shown in the Shinobi table. After you use a ninja tool, it is expended. As part of a long rest, you can prepare new ninja tools as long as you are not restrained during that time. A list of ninja tools can be found at the end of this section. You are familiar with all of these ninja tools, and can select any of them when deciding which ninja tools to prepare. Ninjutsu Attack Modifier. Some of your ninja tools and shinobi features call for you to make an attack roll against the target. Your attack bonus for these effects is calculated as follows: Ninjutsu attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier Ninjutsu Saving Throws. Some of your ninja tools and shinobi features call for your target to make a saving throw. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Ninjutsu save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier Expert Prowler Climbing no longer costs additional movement; additionally, you can run and traverse rooftops silently. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks when you are at least 10 feet above or below all creatures you are trying to hide from. Nimble Starting at 2nd level, you learn how to slip past foes, confusing them in the process. Once per turn when you leave a hostile creature’s reach, you can spend 15 feet of movement to slip away. When you do, you force the creature to make an Intelligence saving throw. On failure, the creature suffers the disoriented condition (it can’t make opportunity attacks) until the end of your next turn. Shinobi Archetype When you reach 3rd level, you begin to specialize in advanced shinobi tricks and tactics. Choose a shinobi archetype: Infiltrator or Saboteur. The Infiltrator archetype and Saboteur archetype are detailed at the end of the class description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 9th, 13th, and 18th levels. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 10th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Quick Hands Starting at 5th level, your expert sense of timing allows you to weave in ranged attacks and techniques during even the briefest moments of calm. If there are no hostile creatures within 5 feet of you, you can use your bonus action to throw a weapon or use a ninja tool. Escape Artist Starting at 6th level, you are difficult to pin down. You have advantage against grappling checks. Additionally, you have advantage on saving throws to resist effects that would incapacitate, restrain, or reduce your speed. Finally, your walking speed is increased by 10 feet. Crescent Slash Starting at 7th level, you become adroit at striking multiple foes with a single fell swoop. You can spend your action to make a multitarget attack against each creature in a 5-foot-sweep around you. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. At 15th level, you can use this feature an additional time between rests. Vigilant Mind Starting at 11th level, you are in a constant state of alertness. Increase your passive Perception score by +5, and you cannot be surprised. Additionally, you have advantage on Wisdom (Insight) checks to discern killing intent in a creature you are observing. V enom-Tested Constitution Starting at 14th level, your familiarity and exposure to toxins, poisons, powders, and intense physical conditioning has granted you proficiency in Constitution saving throws. Additionally, you have advantage on Intelligence (Medicine) checks to treat poison. Deathmark At 17th level, when you deal damage to a creature with a ranged attack, a ninja tool, or a contingency plan, that creature suffers the marked for death condition (your next successful melee attack against it deals an additional 1d8 force damage) for 1 minute. D efy Death At 20th level, when you would take damage that would reduce you to 8 hit points or less, you can spend your reaction to reduce the damage you suffer to 0. Then you can immediately move up to your movement speed in a direction away from the damage source. You do not provoke attacks of opportunity as part of this movement. Once you have used this feature, you may not use it again until you have finished a long rest. Shinobi Archetypes As deniable assets, there are many different means available to shinobi that many samurai see as nefarious: deception, blackmail, and assassination, to name a few. You can pursue these as an Infiltrator, specializing in subterfuge and clandestine operations, or as a Saboteur, focusing your skills on traps and cunning snares. Infiltrator Saboteur N inja Tools The following ninja tools are available to shinobi. A shinobi has access to all of the following tools and can prepare a number of them as part of a long rest as listed in Table 2–4: The Shinobi . A character must be proficient in ninja tools to use a ninja tool. Agonizing Caltrops Inflammatory Powder Shower of Kunai Smoke Screen Venom Vial

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

