# Smart-Mastermind

**description**: Roll20 Note: This page is read only and will not function with drag-and-drop as similar pages within this category. You are always at least one step ahead of your enemies, plotting, scheming, and planning your next masterstroke. Your allies also benefit from your genius as well. If only you could find someone to truly challenge you. “All according to plan…” Mastermind’s plans typically involve plans that were in theory enacted in the past but are only revealed in the present moment. The mastermind is very powerful outside of combat with the ability to short cut very difficult challenges. In combat however, they are rather weak and vulnerable. Hit Die: d6 Starting Maximum Hit Dice: 1d6 Starting Maximum Hit Points: 6 + Constitution Modifier Defense (Superior Tactics): 10 + Intelligence Modifier + Defense Bonus Proficiencies Saves : Intelligence and Wisdom Skills : Choose Four (Computers, Deception, Insight, Investigation, Medicine, Natural Sciences, Perception, Persuasion, Security, Social Sciences, or Streetwise) Equipment : Basic Expertise : Choose two (Computers, Deception, Insight, Investigation, Perception, Persuasion, Security, Social Sciences, or Streetwise). You must be proficient in a skill to take expertise in that skill. Level Talents Proficiency Bonus Defense Bonus Genius 1 Genius, Know-It-All, You’re Doing It Wrong +2 +0 2 2 Two Minor Feats or One Major Feat, Mental Refresh, Mind over Matter +2 +0 3 3 Plans Improve +2 +0 4 4 Two Minor Feats or One Major Feat +2 +0 4 5 Plans Improve +3 +1 5 Genius . Granted at level 1 . Your incredible Genius allows you to devise and enact cunning plans that can accomplish what seems impossible until you explain just how they came to fruition. You have a limited number of plans at your disposal. The total number is: Intelligence modifier (minimum 1) + 1/2½ Hero Level (rounded down) Select a set of plans equal to the total above from the plans list. As your maximum number of plans grows, due to your intelligence or level, you can select additional plans for your list. These selections are semi-permanent. When you gain a level, you can decide to exchange one you know for one you don’t. You can enact any plan you know by spending 1 Genius. The Smart Hero table shows how much Genius you have based on your level. Genius recharges when you finish a long rest. Provided you have Genius, you can use any of your plans without restriction. The effect of each plan, as well as the action you must take to enact it, is included in the plan’s individual description. If a plan calls for a saving throw, the save DC is always 8 + your Intelligence modifier + your proficiency bonus. This is called your “plan DC.” Many plans grow in power as you gain more levels. Each plan describes how it improves, and these enhancements are cumulative unless otherwise noted. Note that heroes multiclassing into Smart Hero have a cap on the level of effect they can access. In Everyday Heroes core rules, each type of hero has their own set of plans as well as shared plans. For the quickstart guide, we offer a smaller mix of the Mastermind and Smart hero plans. Know-It-All . Granted at level 1 . You have advantage on all ability checks to recall information. You’re Doing It Wrong. Granted at level 1 . When an ally that can see and hear you misses with an attack, you can use your reaction to instruct them on the proper technique, allowing them to re-roll the attack. Mental Refresh. Granted at level 2 . When you take a short rest, you can refresh your mind with a nice snack, a power nap, and/or some light reading. You regain 1 Genius point when you finish that rest. You can do this only once before you finish a long rest. Mind over Matter. Granted at level 2. You can treat Constitution saves as Intelligence saves. The Plans Expect the Unexpected When you enact this plan as an action, you prepare yourself for every form of attack. Until you finish a short or long rest, you can use +3 as your defense bonus when calculating your Defense. Plan Enhancements: At 5 th Level: The bonus becomes + 4 . While this plan is active, you can add this bonus to any Strength or Dexterity saving throw you make. I Had It Poisoned Thanks to your brilliant foresight and schemes, this plan can be enacted as a reaction when one of the following occurs: When you or an ally you can see makes a successful attack with a weapon that does piercing or slashing damage to a target. After someone in the same room as you eats something, drinks something, or is given medical treatment. When you enact this plan, choose one of the following poisons. Common Snake Venom. The target must make a Constitution saving throw , suffering 3 d 6 poison damage on a failed save, and half as much on a successful one. Plan Enhancements: At 3 rd Level: You can choose one of the following poisons instead: Rare Hallucinogens . The target must make a Constitution saving throw or be Blinded for 1 minute. The target can repeat the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. At 5 th Level: You can choose one of the following poisons instead: Rare Snake Venom. The target must make a Constitution saving throw, suffering 6 d 6 poison damage on a failed save, and half as much on a successful one. I Have The Perfect Disguise When you enact this plan as an action, you can reveal a disguise you have prepared for the occasion. This disguise makes you look almost identical to another person you have seen. The disguise can include facial prosthetics, a realistic wig, skin tone adjustments, and anything else required to mimic the chosen person. It can include any normal clothing or uniform, but any identification or badge does not hold up to more than cursory scrutiny. You can make yourself appear up to 3 inches taller or shorter, and up to 25% lighter or heavier, but this does not hold up to any measurements. The disguise is purely visual; you can’t change your voice. You have advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks to pretend to be the person you are disguised as, as long as the target can see you. To discern that the disguise is fake, someone must use their action to inspect your appearance and make an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your plan DC. If they succeed, they see through the disguise. If they fail, they cannot try again for this disguise. The disguise lasts for 1 hour before pieces begin falling off and breaking apart, at which point it no longer functions. Plan Enhancements: At 3rd Level : You can add a voice modulator to your disguise, allowing you to mimic the chosen person’s voice. You have advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks to pretend to be the person you are disguised as if the target can hear or see you. In addition, the disguise can make you appear to be up to 1 foot taller or shorter, and up to 50 % lighter or heavier, which holds up to basic measurements, but not medical exams. At 5 th Level: You can target up to 2 allies within 30 feet of you instead of yourself, or yourself and one ally within 30 feet, giving a unique disguise to each. I Lured You Into Danger You can enact this plan as a reaction when an enemy moves closer to you, within 30 feet, causing the enemy to stumble into a cleaning cart, trip over a mop, get their foot stuck in a loose floorboard, etc. That enemy must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. In addition, on a failed save, the target falls prone, and its movement speed is reduced to 0 until the end of its turn, ending its movement. Plan Enhancements: At 3 rd Level: The damage becomes 3 d 6 . At 5 th Level: The damage becomes 5 d 6 . Perfect Position When you enact this plan as a bonus action, you and each ally that can see or hear you can immediately move up to their movement speed. Opportunity attacks made in reaction to this movement are made at disadvantage. Plan Enhancements: At 5 th Level: Each affected hero can move up to their movement speed as a bonus action during each of their turns for the next minute. Opportunity attacks made in reaction to this movement are made at disadvantage. The Right Tool When you enact this plan as an object interaction, you produce the perfect tool for the task at hand; you either brought it with you, had it brought to you, or knew just where to find it. The tool can be any piece of equipment that you can carry and afford. If it is a weapon, it is fully loaded. Plan Enhancements: At 3 rd Level: You can produce up to 2 pieces of equipment. At 5 th Level: You can produce up to 3 pieces of equipment. Slippery Surface When you enact this plan as an action, you slick a 10-foot square surface within 60 feet with oil, ice, marbles, or some other slippery substance. The area becomes difficult terrain. Each combatant standing in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. A combatant that enters the area or ends its turn there must also succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. This effect lasts for 1 minute. Plan Enhancements: At 5 th Level: You can increase the area to a 20 -foot square. Your allies are not affected by the surface thanks to what you did to their shoes. They’ll Never See Us Coming When you enact this plan as an action, you and any allies you choose that can see or hear you all gain a +5 bonus to Dexterity (Stealth) checks. Affected heroes leave no tracks or other trace of their movement. This effect lasts for 10 minutes, or until you enact this plan again. Plan Enhancements: At 3 rd Level: The bonus becomes + 10 At 5 th Level: The bonus lasts for 1 hour instead of 10 minutes. When A Plan Comes Together After you enact any other plan, you may activate this plan as a free action. You gain 2d10 temporary hit points due to your supreme confidence. Plan Enhancements: 3 rd: 3 d 10 temporary hit points 5 th: 5 d 10 temporary hit points

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Evil Genius Games

**book**: Everyday Heroes Quickstart Guide

