# Specialist

**description**: A dendus hurls a stream of sharp blades into his enemies before disappearing in the shifting light, only to emerge again in from the shadows in the distance. A lunar eldori rewires the security panel, deactivating the laser sensor grid before signaling to her companions to move into the hallway. The holographic disguise fades away from the crescent promethean, revealing his true identity to the stunned agents who so freely revealed all their secrets. Even in the shining jewel of the Sorium Accord, or the peaceful worlds of the Core, shadows exist. If left unchecked, they spread like an invisible web of darkness, vying for power while the rest of society remains unaware. Specialists work their craft between the judicial societies of the Core, and the shadows of the galactic underworld. A specialist relies on their adept skill and instincts to overcome obstacles. They have a wealth of expertise, from figuring out the weak points of any adversary to being able to find their way through the trickiest of tight spots. They can be found working their craft anywhere from running goods between seedy smuggling dens to being a secret agent in defense of their government. Quick and Precise Rather than focusing on brawn, specialists fight using speed, skill, and precision to dispatch their foes. They often use small, easily concealed weapons and implant-controlled gadgets that allow them to take advantage of their enemy’s weaknesses. Their style of practice, however, varies greatly. Each specialist has a chosen range of expertise within which they hone their skills. Some rely on subterfuge and stealth to infiltrate secure or hidden places. Some rely on their quick-wit, hacking, and tools of distraction to catch their targets off guard. Professional Courtesies Often finding themselves in dangerous situations, an experienced specialist knows survival sometimes hinges on the right information and a reliable ally. Whether they are smugglers, investigators, space jockeys, or assassins, specialists often keep a small network of contacts and allies who they can trust even in the worst of situations. As espers, specialists are aware that sometimes the best information can come from other specialists, even if their profession would be considered unsavory toward their own. With this in mind, many of them communicate secretly over the Silrayne Intergalactic Matrix, using coded language only they can decipher. This often comes with a simple, yet courteous, “don’t ask, don’t tell” agreement when it comes to identity and sharing of information. Creating a Specialist Specialists have a very broad range of available skills or techniques. When you are creating your character, consider your desired profession as well as on which side of the law your character stands. How did your character fall into their practice? Are you part of an organization? When did your innate skills manifest? (see the “Natural Aptitude” class feature below) Do you use your powers for money or do you fight for an ideal or cause? Ability Scores Dexterity should be your primary ability score. Depending on the type of specialist you wish to create, you should choose either Intelligence or Charisma as your second highest ability score, followed by Wisdom. The Specialist Level Proficiency Bonus Deft Strike Features 1st +2 1d6 Natural Aptitude, Deft Strike, Shadownet ID 2nd +2 1d6 Cunning Action 3rd +2 2d6 Specialist Archetype 4th +2 2d6 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 3d6 Uncanny Dodge 6th +3 3d6 Natural Aptitude 7th +3 4d6 Evasion 8th +3 4d6 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 5d6 Specialist Archetype feature 10th +4 5d6 Ability Score Improvement 11th +4 6d6 Reliable Talent 12th +4 6d6 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 7d6 Specialist Archetype feature 14th +5 7d6 Blindsense 15th +5 8d6 Slippery Mind 16th +5 8d6 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 9d6 Specialist Archetype feature 18th +6 9d6 Elusive 19th +6 10d6 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 10d6 Stroke of Luck Class Features As a specialist, you have the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice : 1d8 per specialist level Hit Points at 1st Level : 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per specialist level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: Light armor Weapons: Simple weapons, autopistol, longblade, shortblade, sabre Tools: Infiltration Tools Saving Throws: Dexterity, Intelligence Skills: Choose four from Acrobatics, Athletics, Computers, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) a sabre or (b) a light pistol with 15 rounds of ammunition (a) a light pistol with 15 rounds of ammunition or (b) a shortblade (a) an agent’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack (a) Armor Jacket, two combat knives, and infiltration tools Natural Aptitude As an esper, you have a natural affinity for particular skills. These innate skill competences come instinctively to you. They could have manifested at anytime during your lifetime, often marked with a specific visual effect. At 1st level, choose two skills in which you are proficient, or one of those skills and one tool proficiency in which you are proficient (including vehicles). Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses either of those skills. At 6th level, you can choose two more of your proficiencies (in skills or with tools or vehicles) to gain this benefit. Optional Rule: Esper Effect You may choose a particular effect that manifests whenever you use a skill in which you have a natural aptitude. The effect reflects your esper link with the Crucibles and may be visual or more intrinsic. Examples could be small trails of wind behind you when using the Acrobatics skill, data trails in your eyes when using Computers, a slight darkening of light around you for Stealth, or an aire of sheer confidence when using Persuasion. Whatever effect you choose must be limited to your character’s space and must also be approved by your GM. Deft Strike Beginning at 1st level, you know how to exploit a foe’s weakness to make a quick, powerful strike. Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack if you have advantage on the attack roll. The attack must use a finesse or a ranged weapon. You don’t need advantage on the attack roll if another enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, that enemy isn’t incapacitated, and you don’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Shadownet ID Your training and expertise have earned you an online avatar on the Shadownet – a secret underworld of locations and networks within the Silrayne Intergalactic Matrix (SIM). These secret messages and locations can only be accessed or decoded with a personal set of codes and your Shadownet ID (which may also require a partial genetic ID as well). Members of the Shadownet can converse in private, trade or share secrets, acquire locations for black market goods and resources, and look up information about different territories and the secret societies that may operate in those areas. Cunning Action Starting at 2nd level, your superior reaction and agility allow you to move and act quickly. You can take a bonus action on each of your turns in combat. This action can be used only to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Specialist Archetype At 3rd level, you may choose an archetype that represents your chosen form of expertise and your path toward improvement. Your archetype choice grants you features at 3rd level and then again at 9th, 13th, and 17th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 10th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature Uncanny Dodge Starting at 5th level, when an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack’s damage against you. Evasion Beginning at 7th level, you can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain area effects, such as the gravity well talent or a drone’s blast pattern ability. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. Reliable Talent By 11th level, you have refined your chosen skills until they approach perfection. Whenever you make an ability check that lets you add your proficiency bonus, you can treat a d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10. Blindsense Starting at 14th level, if you are able to hear, you are aware of the location of any hidden or invisible creature within 10 feet of you. Slippery Mind By 15th level, you have acquired greater mental strength. You gain proficiency in Wisdom saving throws. Elusive Beginning at 18th level, you are so evasive that attackers rarely gain the upper hand against you. No attack roll has advantage against you while you aren’t incapacitated. Stroke of Luck At 20th level, you have an uncanny knack for succeeding when you need to. If your attack misses a target within range, you can turn the miss into a hit. Alternatively, if you fail an ability check, you can treat the d20 roll as a 20. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Specialist Archetypes Though specialists are trained with many similar basic traits, very rarely are any of them cut from the same cloth. Your archetype represents the path upon which you’ve chosen to focus your training as a specialist, as well as the style in which you operate. Infiltrator Investigator Operative Artifice

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

