# Strong-Brute

**description**: Roll20 Note: This page is read only and will not function with drag-and-drop as similar pages within this category You read a lot of comics as a kid, and it shows in your approach to a fight. With fists like hammers and the ability to turn nearly anything into a deadly weapon, you are the definition of dangerous. “If brute force ain’t workin, yer not using enough!” The brute charges into melee combat, hitting hard and destroying everything in their path. They hit harder using improvised weapons but fighting unarmed gives them more opportunities to land a devastating blow by using the off-hand bonus attack option. Hit Die: d10 Starting Maximum Hit Dice: 1d10 Starting Maximum Hit Points: 10 + Constitution Modifier Defense (Meat Shield) : 10 + Strength Modifier + Defense Bonus Proficiencies Saves : Strength, Constitution Skills : Choose two (Acrobatics, Athletics, Endurance, Intimidation, Mechanics, or Streetwise) Equipment : Basic and Improvised Level Talents Smash Proficiency Bonus Defense Bonus 1 Crush, Hurl, Power Attack, Smash d6 +2 +1 2 Two Minor Feats or One Major Feat, Reckless Attack 1d6 +2 +1 3 Barrel Down 2d6 +2 +2 4 Two Minor Feats or One Major Feat 2d6 +2 +2 5 Haymaker, Improved Power Attack, Bits and Pieces 3d6 +3 +2 Crush . Granted at level 1 . You have advantage on any Strength check you make in order to break an object. In addition, your melee attacks have + 1 Penetration Value. Hurl . Granted at level 1 . Double the range of any thrown weapon you attack with. Power Attack. Granted at level 1 . Before making a melee attack, you may take a - 5 penalty to the attack roll to receive a + 5 bonus to the damage roll. You cannot use power attack if the attack was made as part of a bonus action or reaction. Smash . Granted at level 1 . Once during your turn, when you hit an enemy with an attack with a melee or thrown weapon, you can choose to deal an additional 1 d 6 damage. If you do, and you did not attack unarmed, the weapon is destroyed. You can’t use this talent with explosives attacks. The amount of the extra damage increases as you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Smash column of the Brute table. Reckless Attack. Granted at level 2 . Before making an attack, you can declare you are being reckless. You gain advantage on all melee and thrown weapon attack rolls but all foes attacking you have advantage on their attack rolls. This lasts until the start of your next turn. Barrel Down. Granted at level 3 . As a bonus action, you can move up to your speed but you must move towards an enemy. If there are no enemies present, you may move towards an obviously dangerous situation instead. Bits & Pieces. Granted at level 5 . Immediately after you use your Smash talent during a melee attack and break the weapon, you can use your bonus action to make an additional attack using the destroyed pieces of the weapon. The pieces are an improvised weapon that deal 1 d 4 piercing damage and are also destroyed after the attack. Haymaker. Granted at level 5 . When you use your Smash ability as part of an unarmed attack, you deal an additional 2 d 6 damage. Improved Power Attack. Granted at level 5 . When you use your Power Attack talent, the bonus to damage becomes + 10 instead of + 5 .

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Evil Genius Games

**book**: Everyday Heroes Quickstart Guide

