# War Marshall

**description**: Commander Battles, wars, conquests, and defeats. Victors, losers, land gained, and ground lost. Survivors and triumphant ones, and those who fell in defeat. You are a seasoned fighter. A veteran of many battles now growing weary with the world, you find little solace in your past. The sword at your side is a tool of violence used to decide the outcome of debates and other matters. You conquer the enemies of your commander, be they kings, dukes, or warlords. They all seek power and have previously relied on your violent prowess to achieve their goals. It is time to fight for your side, yet you still may not have discovered what that may be. Are you a hero, a villain, or a bystander who refuses to choose any side? Only time will reveal your true nature, whatever that may be. d4 Reasons for Retirement from Military Service 1 Neglect of Home: While you tirelessly fought battles in distant realms against foreign enemies, you overlooked matters at home. A loved one succumbed to a severe illness due to lost letters and confusion, haunting you with the regret of arriving too late to aid them in their time of need. 2 Betrayal of Strategies: Your superiors went against your strategies in a decisive battle, resulting in a death sentence for thousands of soldiers. The faces of those under your command, marching towards certain doom, are etched in your memory. Your anger and rejection of these decisions led to your dismissal from the army. 3 Numbness to Suffering: After numerous battles and wars, you become desensitized to the suffering of others. One morning, the glance of an orphaned child pierced through your numbness, revealing the lost hope in his youthful eyes. This encounter forced a stark realization upon you, prompting you to no longer sow destruction in your path. 4 Defeat by a Superior Adversary: Despite leading your fighters into countless battles, you encountered a superior adversary that proved impossible. Crushing defeat of your forces and the loss of faith in your strategies by your superiors led to your selection as a scapegoat and subsequent dismissal from your position. Level Proficiency | Vet. Instincts Features 1st +2 Veteran Instincts (Slash and Dodg, Battlefield Voice), Positioning 2nd +2 Phalanx Fighter, Not On My Watch, Seize the moment 3rd +2 Decorations, Fighting Style 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 Extra Attack 6th +3 Master Tactician, Eye for Weakness 7th +3 Bolster, Momentum, Veteran’s Gambit 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 Hymn of Battle, Battle-Scarred 10th +4 Enhanced Battlefield Voice, To Victory 11th +4 Legionnaire 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 Veteran´s Awareness 14th +5 Piercing Fall 15th +5 Exonerare 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 The Stance of the Death Crow 18th +6 Decapitation 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 Unending War Class Features Hit Points Hit Dice: d10 Hit Points at 1st Level: hit dice + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per War Marshall level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: All armor, Shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Charisma, Constitution Skills: Choose three skills from Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Persuasion, Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) chain mail or (b) leather armor, longbow, and 20 arrows (a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) two handaxes (a) an explorer’s pack or (b) a diplomat’s pack Level 1 Veteran Instincts: Your honed instincts and inner reserves allow you to dictate the course of the fight. You gain a number of Veteran Instincts points equal to your Constitution modifier. You can spend these points to activate special abilities. You regain all the expended points when you finish a short or long rest. Slash and Dodge (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): As a reaction when you are about to be hit by an attack, you get a bonus to your AC equal to your proficiency bonus until the start of your next turn (potentially causing the attack to miss). You can only use this feature against an enemy you have hit with an attack since the start of your previous turn. Battlefield Voice (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): As a bonus action, select an ally within 30 ft that can hear you. They gain advantage on their next attack roll they make before the end of their next turn. Positioning: During your first turn in combat, your move speed is increased by 10ft. Level 2 Phalanx Fighter: As a bonus action on your turn, choose an ally that can hear you within 30 ft. As long as the same enemy is within reach of at least one melee weapon that each of you is wielding, you both receive a +2 bonus to your damage rolls on melee weapon attacks against that enemy. You can use your bonus action again to choose a different ally. Not On My Watch (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): If you are within 10ft of an ally that is about to receive damage from an attack, you can take the damage instead. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until the end of your next turn. Seize the moment: You can turn what seems to be tactical blunders into opportunities. Once per turn, when you make an attack on your turn and roll a 1, 2 or 3 on your d20 you can immediately make another weapon attack. This effect only triggers if you use that specific dice for the attack if you roll more than one d20. Level 3 Decorations: At 3rd level, the War Marshal can choose one of the following Decorations: Iron Star: (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): As a reaction when you would receive damage from an attack, you can choose to gain resistance to the damage type(s) you are about to suffer. Crimson Cross: (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): As a reaction when you hit a creature with an attack, you can turn the attack into a Critical hit. Fighting Style: You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose a fighting style from the list of optional features. You can't take the same Fighting Style option more than once, even if you get to choose again. Defense. While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. Dueling. When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon. Great Weapon Fighting. When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit. Protection. When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be wielding a shield. Warfighter. You can't be surprised while you are conscious. On your turn you can choose to move half your speed; if you do so, you don’t provoke opportunity attacks when you move out of an enemy’s reach. You can make one opportunity attack each round even if you have already used your reaction. Level 4 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 5 Extra Attack: Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. The number of attacks increases to three when you reach 11th level in this class and to four when you reach 20th level in this class. Level 6 Master Tactician: You can analyze the battlefield to gain the upper hand. You can add your proficiency bonus to your initiative roll. Before a combat starts, if you spend at least 1 minute studying the area the combat takes place in, you and all the allies that start the combat within 60 ft of you and that can hear you have advantage on initiative rolls. Eye for Weakness: When you make a weapon attack, you score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Level 7 Bolster: As an action, choose a number of creatures equal to your proficiency bonus within 60ft that can hear you. These creatures gain temporary hit points equal to your character level + your proficiency bonus. A creature can't gain temporary hit points from this feature again until it has finished a short or long rest. Momentum: (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): When an ally within 30 ft of you that you can see and that can hear you reduces a creature to 0 hit points with a weapon attack, you can direct them to strike again; they can make a weapon attack as a bonus action. Veteran’s Gambit: If you have no Veteran Instincts points left when you roll initiative, you immediately gain one. Level 8 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 9 Hymn of Battle: When you use your Battlefield Voice feature, you can select a number of allies equal to your proficiency bonus instead of just one. Battle-Scarred: You gain proficiency in Wisdom saving throws and have advantage on saving throws against being frightened or charmed. Additionally, when one or more allies within 30 ft. of you that you can see and that can hear you fail a saving throw against being frightened or charmed, they can repeat the save. Level 10 Enhanced Battlefield Voice: When you use your Battlefield Voice feature, its range is extended to 60ft. To Victory: you can trigger your Seize the Moment feature if you roll a 17 or 18 on your d20. Level 11 Legionnaire: You and your allies fight as one. When you use your Phalanx Fighter feature, you can choose a number of creatures up to your proficiency modifier instead of just one. Level 12 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 13 Veteran´s Awareness: You gain proficiency in Perception. If you already have proficiency with that skill, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any Perception check you make. This feature does not stack with other bonuses that double your proficiency bonus for this skill. When you are making a Perception check to detect creatures within 60 ft of you, you make the roll with Advantage. Level 14 Piercing Fall: When you are reduced to 0 hit points, you can use your reaction to make an attack against a creature within 5ft of you. The attack deals extra damage equal to your character level. Level 15 Exonerare: (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): As a reaction when you receive a Condition or a Curse, you can choose not to receive it. You immediately gain 1 level of Exhaustion. Level 16 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 17 The Stance of the Death Crow: (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): when you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with this feature. You can invoke an aura of fear: up to five creatures of your choice that you can see and that can hear you must succeed on a CHA SAVE with a DC equal to (8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus) or become Frightened of you until the start of your next turn. Creatures immune to fear can’t benefit from said immunity against this feature, but make the save with advantage. Level 18 Decapitation: (Costs 1 Veteran Instincts point): When you score a Critical Hit, you can use your reaction to cause the attack to deal maximized damage (as if every dice had rolled the maximum value possible). If this attack reduces the target to 0 hit points or fewer, you sever its head. Level 19 When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Alternatively, you can choose a feat (see PHB Chapter 6 for a list of feats). Level 20 Unending War: The battlefield holds no secrets for you. You gain the following bonuses: When you activate a feature that requires you to spend 1 Veteran Instincts point and have no points left, you immediately gain 1 Veteran Instincts point. You can’t become frightened or charmed. Allies within 30ft of you that can hear or see you make their saves against being frightened or charmed with advantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Lion Banner Games

**book**: HellWatch Infernal Oath 5e Compendium Expansion

