# Warrior

**description**: Maintaining her focus, the ashenforged sees the impending ambush from the two gangers closing in on her. In a single fluid motion, she draws her blades and spins gracefully, cutting the two punks down before they could draw their next breath. A human mercenary readies his rifle as a hail of gunfire pelts into the conduit he’s leaned against. He points out the enemy’s location to his companions. Nodding in a silent countdown, his digital scope marks the target, signaling his squad to execute a coordinated attack. Blocking a laser barrage with her energy shield, the valna guard focuses energy into her pistol before firing a stream of electricity into a mecharoid. The huge machine stumbles from the electrical jolt. Seizing on the opportunity, the valna’s matokai companion charges forward, burying his axe deep into the robot’s steel frame. Durability and mastery of arms are the highlights of the warrior’s abilities. While anyone can shoot a gun or swing a blade, only warriors can effectively practice the basics of all forms of combat. Their versatility and extensive training make them a force to be reckoned with in any confrontation. Ability Scores Strength or Dexterity should be your primary ability score depending on your fighting style. In addition to these two, Constitution should also be your second or third highest ability score. The Warrior Level Proficiency Bonus Features 1st +2 Combat Style, Second Wind 2nd +2 Action Surge (one use) 3rd +2 Martial Archetype 4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 5th +3 Extra Attack 6th +3 Ability Score Improvement 7th +3 Martial Archetype Feature 8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 9th +4 Indomitable (one use) 10th +4 Martial Archetype Feature 11th +4 Extra Attack (2) 12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 13th +5 Indomitable (two uses) 14th +5 Ability Score Improvement 15th +5 Martial Archetype Feature 16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 17th +6 Action Surge (two uses), Indomitable (three uses) 18th +6 Martial Archetype Feature 19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 20th +6 Extra Attack (3) Class Features As a warrior, you have the following class features. Hit Points Hit Dice : 1d10 per warrior level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per warrior level after 1st Proficiencies Armor: All armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Lore, Perception, Persuasion, and Survival Equipment You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background: (a) heavy trooper armor or (b) armor jacket and an autopistol (a) a martial weapon and shield or (b) two martial weapons (a) a simple ranged weapon or (b) a simple melee weapon (a) an explorer’s pack Combat Style You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again. Defense While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. Dueling When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon. Great Weapon Fighting When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property to gain this benefit. Gunnery When you are wielding a firearm with the recoil property, that firearm’s recoil value is reduced by 1 (to a minimum of zero). Protection When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be wielding a shield or a reach weapon. Range Deterrence If a creature within 5 feet of you makes a ranged weapon attack, you can use your reaction to make an opportunity attack against that creature. Point Shooting When making a ranged weapon attack while you are within 5 feet of a hostile creature, you do not have disadvantage on the attack roll. Sharpshooting You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons. Two-Weapon Fighting When you engage in two‑weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack. Zone Defender As a bonus action, you can enter a defensive stance that lasts until the start of your next turn. While in your defensive stance, you can make opportunity attacks without using your reaction, and you can use your reaction to make a melee attack against a creature that moves more than 5 feet while within your reach. Second Wind You have the ability to draw energy into yourself to regain stamina and recover from minor wounds. On your turn, you can use a bonus action to either regain hit points equal to 1d10 + your warrior level, or you may instead remove one point of exhaustion. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Action Surge Starting at 2nd level, you can push yourself beyond your normal limits for a moment. On your turn, you can take one additional action on top of your regular action and a possible bonus action. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Starting at 17th level, you can use it twice before a rest, but only once on the same turn. Martial Archetype At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you strive to emulate in your combat styles and techniques. Choose Paragon, Commando, Storm Guard, or Justicar, all detailed at the end of the class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 10th, 15th, and 18th level. Ability Score Improvement When you reach 4th level, and again at 6th, 8th, 12th, 14th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature. Extra Attack Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. The number of attacks increases to three when you reach 11th level in this class and to four when you reach 20th level in this class. Indomitable Beginning at 9th level, you can reroll a saving throw that you fail. If you do so, you must use the new roll, and you can’t use this feature again until you finish a long rest. You can use this feature twice between long rests starting at 13th level and three times between long rests starting at 17th level. Martial Archetypes Warriors are well-rounded, but each one specializes in a different form of combat. The archetype you choose reflects the kind of warrior you are and how you view your art. Paragon Commando Storm Guard Justicar

**properties**:
- Category: Classes
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

