# Wise-Sleuth

**description**: Roll20 Note: This page is read only and will not function with drag-and-drop as similar pages within this category Evil never sleeps, so neither do you. Your keen perception pierces the veils of the devious. Your own inner darkness gives insight into the worst villains humanity has to offer. It’s a dirty job, but someone’s gotta do it. “Looks like we’ve got another mystery on our hands.” The Sleuth has the skills necessary to solve mysteries and avoid dangers. They are the most defensive of the Wise heroes with many abilities to help them stay alive. At higher levels they gain enough offense to make them dangerous to unwary enemies. Hit Die: d8 Starting Maximum Hit Dice: 1d8 Starting Maximum Hit Points: 8 + Constitution Modifier Defense (Know Your Enemy): 10 + (Wisdom or Dexterity) Modifier + Defense Bonus Proficiencies Saves : Intelligence and Wisdom Skills : Choose three (Arts and Crafts, Computers, Deception, Driving/Piloting, Insight, Investigation, Perception, Security, Stealth, or Streetwise) Equipment : Basic and Advanced Expertise : Choose one (Insight, Investigation, or Perception). You must be proficient in a skill to take expertise in that skill. Level Talents Proficiency Bonus Defense Bonus Focus Weak Spot 1 Concentration, Focus, Observations, Sixth Sense +2 +1 1 2 Two Minor Feats or One Major Feat, Cover Seeker +2 +1 2 3 Alert, Weak Spot +2 +1 3 1d6 4 Two Minor Feats or One Major Feat +2 +1 4 1d6 5 Expertise, Uncanny Dodge +3 +2 5 2d6 Concentration . Granted at level 1 . You can spend one focus point to reroll a failed Wisdom ability check. This may only be done once per ability check. Focus . Granted at level 1 . You have Focus points equal to your Wise Hero level, which can be spent to use abilities granted by your class. Your Focus recharges whenever you finish a short or long rest. Observations . Granted at level 1 . You can spend 1 Focus to use any of the following abilities: Gain advantage on an Intelligence (Investigation) check. As a bonus action, you gain advantage on attacks against one target until the start of your next turn. Sixth Sense. Granted at level 1 . You gain the following benefits: You can use Wisdom instead of Dexterity for any attack or damage roll you make with non-Heavy weapons. You can take the Search action as a bonus action. You cannot be surprised. Cover Seeker. Granted at level 2 . You do not fall prone when you Dive for Cover, but you may still choose to do so. Alert . Granted at level 3 . You gain advantage on all initiative rolls. Weak Spot . Granted at level 3 . Once during your turn when you hit with an attack, if you had advantage on the attack roll, you can choose to deal an additional 1 d 6 damage to the target. The amount of the extra damage increases as you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Weak Spot column of the Sleuth table. Expertise. Granted at level 5 . Choose one (Insight, Investigation, or Perception). You must be proficient in a skill to take expertise in that skill. Uncanny Dodge. Granted at level 5 . When you take damage from an attack, you can spend your reaction to halve that attack’s damage against you.

**properties**:
- Category: Classes

**publisher**: Evil Genius Games

**book**: Everyday Heroes Quickstart Guide

