# Abaddon, Failed Sentinel

**description**: Abaddon—a fighter rescued from death by being grafted an eldritch parasite and becoming a living nightmare—bore witness to dreadful carnage that sparked his profound loathing towards osteomancers, the malevolent arcanists who callously slaughtered his comrades in arms. Intent on exacting vengeance, he bravely embarked on the path to become a Hollow Sentinel. However, his intrinsic otherworldly shard violently revolted during the transmutation process, warping him into an unrecognizable monstrosity driven by fury and insanity. Despite his transformed state, his hatred remains a constant, now generalized to all wielders of magic, regardless of their intentions. His abhorrence extends beyond the individuals to the very concept of the arcane, blaming it for the world's misery. Proficient in the deadly art of the hunt from his former life, Abaddon employs his skills ruthlessly against practitioners of magic. His hunts are no longer mere revenge missions, but have grown into a personal crusade against magic itself. Some spellcasters have taken drastic measures to avoid his wrath, renouncing their powers and severing their ties to the arcane. There are those who whisper that the Radiant Church still holds some sway over this rampaging monstrosity, using his threat as a strategic card in their negotiations with arcane masters. Skeptics, however, opine that his madness is too far gone for any semblance of control to exist. Whether a puppet of the Church or an independent agent of chaos, one thing is agreed upon—being in the path of his monstrous fury is a fate best avoided. Traits Infectious Wrath. A creature that grapples Abaddon or becomes grappled by it takes 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or gain a short-term madness. A creature takes 9 (2d8) necrotic damage if it starts its turn grappling or grappled by Abaddon. Innate Spellcasting. Abaddon's innate spellcasting ability is Constitution (spell save DC 18). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 6/day: misty step 2/day: dominate monster Magic Resistance. Abaddon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Moongilded Weapons. Abaddon's weapon attacks are magical. When Abaddon hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an additional die of damage (included in the attack). Mooongilded Body. Abaddon has advantage on saving throws against madness and any critical hits it suffers becomes normal hits. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Abaddon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Reactive. Abaddon can take one reaction on every turn in combat. Actions Multiattack. Abaddon makes three attacks: one with its greatsword, one with its hammer arm, and one with its tendinous lash. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage. Hammer Arm. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and Abaddon can push the target 5 feet away from it. Tendinous Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) slashing damage and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Bonus Actions Tendril Explosion (2/Day). Each creature within 20 feet of Abaddon must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or take 5 (2d4) slashing damage, be pulled 15 feet in a straight line towards it, and be grappled (escape DC 25) until the start of Abaddon’s next turn. Reactions Annihilation. After Abaddon is targeted by a spell, it can fly up to 60 feet towards the caster without provoking opportunity attacks and make a greatsword attack against the caster. Parry. Abaddon adds 5 to its AC against one weapon attack that would hit it. To do so, Abaddon must see the attacker. Devour. When a creature within 15 feet of Abaddon misses it with an attack roll, or Abaddon succeeds on a saving throw against an effect from the creature, Abaddon can attempt to grapple the creature with a total +15 modifier. Legendary Actions Abaddon can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Abaddon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Absorb Magic. Abaddon innately casts dispel magic (+10 spellcasting ability modifier). Spread Corruption. Abaddon makes a greatsword attack. On a hit, the target must also succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or gain a short-term madness.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

