# Aberrant Brute

**description**: Abberants From the darkest corners of uncharted ruins to the desolate wastes of a blighted colony, the alien wail of the aberrants can be heard echoing in response to the trespass of unsuspecting explorers. Those cries are the only warning before a swarm of twisted forms appear from the darkness, assaulting their victims with a merciless ferocity. Genetics Gone Awry. When the promethean reach adulthood, they undergo a process known as the Chrysalis, after which they establish their perfected design. In rare circumstances, however, the process produces an unintended form. Emerging with both physical and mental deformities, they are branded as aberrants. Many are euthanized, though some survive either by mercy of their creators or by escaping before elimination. Perfect Imperfections. Over the past couple of centuries, the number of aberrants spotted across the galaxy has soared, numbering in the dozens, if not hundreds. A select few who retained their sanity attempt to recreate the "mistake" that brought them to their current state. They grow their numbers in the belief that they, not the prometheans, are the next stage of human evolution. They seek to discover the secret behind the aberration within the Chrysalis process in order to perfect themselves. Such a process, however, takes a long time and many, many experiments. Dangerous Abnormalities. Though most are mindless or driven completely mad, most aberrants have some extraordinary ability. They are especially dangerous when under the control or command of a more sane member of their kind. Because of the myriad of aberrations that make up their design, it's often hard for their enemies to know what to expect when encountering them. The most common, however, have long, sharp claws and teeth, which they use to rend and consume the flesh of other living beings. Hiding in Plain Sight. Some of the more intelligent aberrants have learned to blend into the local population, either by wearing heavy clothing ,headwear or masked exo-suits. Many even use camouflage or stealth tech in their armor to hide when hunting or planning an ambush. Such techniques allow them to not only keep safe, but also to capture unsuspecting humanoids for food or experimentation. Boundless Energy. An aberrant does not require rest or sleep. Chrysalis Aberration. An abberant has one of the following special features, determined randomly or chosen by the GM using the Chrysalis Aberration table. If multiple aberrants are encountered, they all possess the same special feature. Chrysalis Aberration d20 Special Feature 1-3 Toxin Resistance. The aberrant has resistance to damage from poison and immunity to the poisoned condition and disease. 4-9 Keen Hearing and Smell. The aberrant has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. 10-11 Spider Climb. The aberrant can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. 12-15 Rush. As a bonus action, the aberrant can move up to its speed toward a hostile creature that it can see. 16-17 Rampaging Attack. When the aberrant reduces a creature to 0 hit points with a melee attack on its turn, it can take a bonus action to move up to half its speed and make a claw attack. 18-19 Superior Fortitude. If damage reduces the aberrant to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the aberrant drops to 1 hit point instead. 20 Flight. The aberrant's has leathery wings and a flying speed of 40 ft. Tips and Tactics Aberrants are accustomed to lingering in the darkness or shadows. Due to their lack of ranged weapons, they prefer to sneak up on their targets before attacking. Rarely does one aberrant take on an enemy alone. They rely on numbers, especially when accompanied by a controller.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (aberrant)
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

