# Aboleth Savant

**description**: TRAITS Amphibious : The aboleth can breathe air and water. Mucous Cloud : While underwater, the aboleth is surrounded by transformative mucus. A creature that touches the aboleth or that hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature is diseased for 1d4 hours. The diseased creature can breathe only underwater. Probing Telepathy : If a creature communicates telepathically with the aboleth, the aboleth learns the creature’s greatest desires if the aboleth can see the creature. Quickened Spell (3/Day): The aboleth can cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action as a bonus action. Spellcasting : The aboleth is a 7th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 to spell attacks). The aboleth knows the following sorcerer spells: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, mage hand, minor illusion, ray of frost, shocking grasp 1st level (4 slots): expeditious retreat, magic missile, thunderwave 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, blur 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, stinking cloud 4th level (1 slot): confusion ACTIONS Multiattack: The aboleth makes three tentacle attacks. Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or become diseased. The disease has no effect for 1 minute and can be removed by any magic that cures disease. After 1 minute, the diseased creature’s skin becomes translucent and slimy, the creature can’t regain hit points unless it is underwater, and the disease can be removed only by heal or another disease-curing spell of 6 th level or higher. When the creature is outside a body of water, it takes 6 (1d12) acid damage every 10 minutes unless moisture is applied to the skin before 10 minutes have passed. Tail: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft. one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and the target must make a successful DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Enslave (3/Day): The aboleth targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed by the aboleth until the aboleth dies or until it is on a different plane of existence from the target. The charmed target is under the aboleth’s control and can’t take reactions, and the aboleth and the target can communicate telepathically with each other over any distance. Whenever the charmed target takes damage, the target can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends. No more than once every 24 hours, the target can also repeat the saving throw when it is at least 1 mile away from the aboleth. LEGENDARY ACTIONS The aboleth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The aboleth regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect: The aboleth makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Swipe: The aboleth makes one tail attack. Psychic Drain (Costs 2 Actions): One creature charmed by the aboleth takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage, and the aboleth regains hit points equal to the damage the creature takes. LAIR ACTIONS While in its lair, the aboleth can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the aboleth takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects: Consume Magic: The aboleth targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it, draining its magical power. The target must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the target loses an unexpended spell slot of 3rd level or lower. Memory of My Enemy: The aboleth recalls a memory of a previous enemy, and an illusion of that enemy emerges from the dark water ready to attack. One creature the aboleth can see within 60 feet of it must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target becomes frightened for 1 minute. At the end of each of the target’s turns, the target must repeat the saving throw or take 22 (4d10) psychic damage. On a success, the effect ends. Tentacle Spawn: The aboleth creates a spectral tentacle on a flat surface it can see within 60 feet of it and makes a tentacle attack with it. On a hit, the target is also grappled (escape DC 15) until the end of the aboleth’s next turn, at which point the tentacle disappears.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 20254
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Goodman Games

**book**: The Prism of Redemption (FEF 24)

