# Aboleth Slime Lord

**description**: The foul slime lord is a species of aboleth that is native to the murky seas of the Abyss and the Far Realm. However, this abomination can sometimes be encountered in deep, fetid swamps and the foulest Underdark lakes. Acidic Mucus. The mucus the slime lord secretes is more potent than the ones produced by its normal kin. It is far more caustic and even acts like an adhesive, which the slime lord uses a projectile to ensnare and weaken its foes. An Aboleth Slime Lord's Lair An aboleth slime lord dwells in sunken ruins of once-great temples, shrines, or keeps swallowed by the murky waters of dismal swamps or Underdark lakes. The foul waters that surround its lair are always acidic and almost uninhabitable. Lair Actions When fighting inside its lair, an aboleth slime lord can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the aboleth slime lord takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the aboleth slime lord can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The aboleth slime lord casts vitriolic sphere (no components required). Pools of water within 120 feet of the aboleth slime lord surge outward in a grasping tide. Any creature on the ground within 30 feet of such a pool must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 30 feet into the water and knocked prone. Water in the aboleth slime lord’s lair magically becomes a conduit for the creature’s rage. The aboleth slime lord can target any number of creatures it can see in such water within 120 feet of it. A target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or take 14 (4d6) psychic damage. Regional Effects The region containing an aboleth slime lord’s lair is warped by the creature’s presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: Underground surfaces within 1 mile of the aboleth slime lord’s lair are slimy and wet and are difficult terrain. Water sources within 1 mile of the lair are supernaturally fouled. Enemies of the aboleth slime lord that drink such water vomit it within minutes and must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 hour. As an action, the aboleth slime lord can create up to three illusory images of itself within 1 mile of the lair. The copies can appear at any location the aboleth slime lord has seen before or in any location a creature charmed by the aboleth slime lord can currently see. Once created, the images last for as long as the aboleth slime lord maintains concentration, as if concentrating on a spell. Although the images are intangible, they look, sound, and can move like the aboleth slime lord. The aboleth slime lord can sense, speak, and use telepathy from any of the images' position as if present at that position. If any of the images take any damage, it disappears. If the aboleth slime lord dies, the first two effects fade over the course of 3d10 days. Traits Amphibious . The aboleth can breathe air and water. Acidic Mucous Cloud. While underwater, the aboleth is surrounded by transformative mucus. A creature that touches the aboleth or that hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 7 (2d6) acid damage and must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature is diseased for 1d4 hours. The diseased creature can breathe only underwater. Probing Telepathy. If a creature communicates telepathically with the aboleth, the aboleth learns the creature's greatest desires if the aboleth can see the creature. Actions Multiattack . The aboleth makes three Tentacle attacks. Alternatively, it can use two Slime Orb attacks. Slime Orb. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) acid damage and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be restrained until the end of the aboleth's next turn. Tentacle . Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) acid damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become diseased. The disease has no effect for 1 minute and can be removed by any magic that cures disease. After 1 minute, the diseased creature's skin becomes translucent and slimy, the creature can't regain hit points unless it is underwater, and the disease can be removed only by heal or another disease-curing spell of 6th level or higher. When the creature is outside a body of water, it takes 6 (1d12) acid damage every 10 minutes unless moisture is applied to the skin before 10 minutes have passed. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) acid damage. Enslave (3/Day). The aboleth targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed by the aboleth until the aboleth dies or until it is on a different plane of existence from the target. The charmed target is under the aboleth's control and can't take reactions, and the aboleth and the target can communicate telepathically with each other over any distance. Whenever the charmed target takes damage, the target can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends. No more than once every 24 hours, the target can also repeat the saving throw when it is at least 1 mile away from the aboleth. Legendary Actions The aboleth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aboleth regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tail Swipe. The aboleth makes one Tail attack. Psychic Drain (Costs 2 Actions). One creature charmed by the aboleth takes 17 (5d6) psychic damage, and the aboleth regains hit points equal to the damage the creature takes. Slime Sphere (Costs 3 Actions). The aboleth conjures a ball of acidic slime that explodes at a point it can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 14 (4d6) acid damage and is restrained until until it escapes the slime. Any creature can use its action to make a DC 16 Strength check to free itself or another creature in the net, ending the effect on a success. Dealing 10 fire damage to the slime (AC 12) destroys the slime and frees the target. A restrained creature takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the Aboleth's turns. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't restrained.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

