# Aboleth Overseer

**description**: One of the most powerful and exceedingly insidious creatures found in the Realms, the overseer is twice the size of a normal aboleth and is an ancient being that has enslaved countless cities and civilizations, leaving despair in its wake. Evil Subjugator . When an aboleth overseer sets its eyes on a new city to conquer, it begins by enslaving locals who live near the coasts and other bodies of water that the aboleth has access to. Once dominated by the aboleth, the enslaved minions are sent to gather information and bring back other victims to enslave. The aboleth overseer does all of these while being careful not to reveal its true appearance. The aboleth overseer then works its way up the social ladder, using the enslaved locals to return with strategic targets, such as city officials, wealthy merchants, etc. Master Manipulator . Once it has established a network of controlled individuals in strategic positions, it strengthens its stranglehold of the city through bribery, coercion, murder, and enslavement. Within a few years, the aboleth overseer may have total control of an entire city, serving as its secret tyrant. When the aboleth overseer is satisfied that it has fully divested a city's wealth and knowledge, it instructs its victims to sow distrust and cause mayhem, resulting in civil unrest, chaos, and mass killings. It is so devious in its methods that it may leave a city devastated without anyone knowing of its true nature. An Aboleth Overseer's Lair Aboleth overseers lair in subterranean lakes or the rocky depths of the ocean, often within a mile of a large town or city, and often surrounded by the hidden ruins of an ancient, fallen city. An aboleth overseer's lair is always guarded by dozens of skum, as well as other water-breathing races that the aboleth has enslaved. Lair Actions When fighting inside its lair, an aboleth overseer can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the aboleth overseer takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the aboleth overseer can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The aboleth overseer casts phantasmal killer (no components required) on any number of creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. While maintaining concentration on this effect, the aboleth overseer can’t take other lair actions. If a target succeeds on the saving throw or if the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the aboleth overseer’s phantasmal killer lair action for the next 24 hours, although such a creature can choose to be affected. Pools of water within 120 feet of the aboleth overseer surge outward in a grasping tide. Any creature on the ground within 30 feet of such a pool must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 30 feet into the water and knocked prone. Water in the aboleth overseer’s lair magically becomes a conduit for the creature’s rage. The aboleth overseer can target any number of creatures it can see in such water within 120 feet of it. A target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or take 28 (8d6) psychic damage. Regional Effects The region containing an aboleth overseer’s lair is warped by the creature’s presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: Underground surfaces within 1 mile of the aboleth overseer’s lair are slimy and wet and are difficult terrain. Water sources within 1 mile of the lair are supernaturally fouled. Enemies of the aboleth overseer that drink such water vomit it within minutes and must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 hour. As an action, the aboleth overseer can create up to three illusory images of itself within 1 mile of the lair. The copies can appear at any location the aboleth overseer has seen before or in any location a creature charmed by the aboleth overseer can currently see. Once created, the images last for as long as the aboleth overseer maintains concentration, as if concentrating on a spell. Although the images are intangible, they look, sound, and can move like the aboleth overseer. The aboleth overseer can sense, speak, and use telepathy from any of the images' position as if present at that position. If any of the images take any damage, it disappears. If the aboleth overseer dies, the first two effects fade over the course of 3d10 days. Traits Amphibious . The aboleth can breathe air and water. Greater Spell Penetration . When the aboleth casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the aboleth fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Mucous Cloud. While underwater, the aboleth is surrounded by transformative mucus. A creature that touches the aboleth or that hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature is diseased for 1d4 hours. The diseased creature can breathe only underwater. Probing Telepathy . If a creature communicates telepathically with the aboleth, the aboleth learns the creature's greatest desires if the aboleth can see the creature. Actions Multiattack . The aboleth makes four Tentacle attacks. Tentacle . Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or become diseased. The disease has no effect for 1 minute and can be removed by any magic that cures disease. After 1 minute, the diseased creature's skin becomes translucent and slimy, the creature can't regain hit points unless it is underwater, and the disease can be removed only by heal or another disease-curing spell of 6th level or higher. When the creature is outside a body of water, it takes 6 (1d12) acid damage every 10 minutes unless moisture is applied to the skin before 10 minutes have passed. Tail . Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 23 (3d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Enslave (3/Day). The aboleth targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed by the aboleth until the aboleth dies or until it is on a different plane of existence from the target. The charmed target is under the aboleth's control and can't take reactions, and the aboleth and the target can communicate telepathically with each other over any distance. Whenever the charmed target takes damage, the target can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends. No more than once every 24 hours, the target can also repeat the saving throw when it is at least 1 mile away from the aboleth. Fling. One Large or smaller object held or creature grappled by the aboleth is thrown up to 60 feet and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes a solid surface, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone. If the aboleth uses multiattack, it can use its Fling in place of one of its Tentacle attacks. Spellcasting (Psionics). The aboleth casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: hypnotic pattern, invisibility, phantasmal force 3/day each: hallucinatory terrain (as an action), major image 2/day each: phantasmal killer, project image 1/day each: mirage arcane (as an action), psychic scream, weird, plane shift (self only) Legendary Actions The aboleth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aboleth regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Enslave . The aboleth uses Enslave, if available. Tail Swipe. The aboleth makes one Tail attack. Psychic Drain (Costs 2 Actions). One creature charmed by the aboleth takes 28 (8d6) psychic damage, and the aboleth regains hit points equal to the damage the creature takes. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The aboleth uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

