# Aboling

**description**: A little bit of ze aboleth’s knowledge lives on in ze aboling’s biomantic code. Zis mind reader ist sehr persuasive, und has ein neat little trick to help it run avay. Just don’t skare it, unless you vant to dye your cloves black. — Humperdink, Launderer Type : Aberration Creature Component : Aboleth or broodmother aboleth Bonus Tamer Improvement : Genetic Memory and +2 Hit Dice Encoded within aboleth ichor are the memories of its donor, secreted amongst the fluid’s genetic code. In its base state, an aboling makes a functional amphibious companion, with a minor ability to sense the motives of other creatures. Upon bonding and training with a tamer, an aboling can fulfil its potential as a mind reader and repository of knowledge, sharing insights and information its progenitor acquired over its long life. If any of the aboling’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the aboling’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the aboling’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the aboling the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Genetic Memory Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Passive (tamer) While the aboling is summoned, its tamer has proficiency in the History skill. If the tamer is already proficient in this skill, it can add double its proficiency bonus whenever it makes an ability check using this skill. It cannot benefit from a feature that doubles its proficiency bonus with a skill more than once. The aboling gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Entrance Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the aboling can target one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed by the aboling for 1 hour . This effect ends early if the aboling dies, is recalled, is on a different plane of existence from the target, or if you or your companions do anything harmful to the target. The charmed creature regards the aboling as a friendly acquaintance. When the effect ends, the creature knows it was charmed by the aboling. Once the aboling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Slime Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The aboling has advantage on any ability checks or saving throws it makes to avoid or escape being grappled or restrained. Inkjet Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the aboling can squirt ink at a creature within 10 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be blinded until the start of its next turn. The aboling can then move up to half its speed as part of the same action. If this action is taken underwater, immediately before the aboling moves, it creates a 5-foot-radius sphere of heavily obscured water that lasts until the start of its next turn. After the aboling uses this action, it can’t do so again until 10 minutes have passed. When the aboling’s tamer reaches 13th level in the tamer class, the aboling can choose to target all creatures within 10 feet of it, instead of just one creature. Multiattack Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the aboling can make two tentacle attacks. Rubbery Hide I Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The aboling gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Fortified Mind Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion & tamer) The aboling gains proficiency in Intelligence saving throws. While it is summoned, its tamer also has proficiency in Intelligence saving throws. If its tamer already has this proficiency, the tamer instead gains proficiency in Charisma saving throws. Infectious Mucous Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer, Slime Type : Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the aboling can secrete infectious mucous that lasts until the end of its next turn, choosing one of the diseases from the contagion spell. For the duration, each time the aboling hits a creature with a tentacle attack, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be affected by the contagion spell for 1 hour (concentration not required). In addition, a creature that is grappling the aboling, or a creature that the aboling has grappled, must make a Constitution saving throw at the start of each of the aboling’s turns as if it had been hit by a tentacle attack. Once the aboling uses this bonus action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Enthral Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Entrance Type : Active (action) As an action, the aboling can target one humanoid or beast it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed by the aboling for 1 minute . The charmed target follows the aboling’s commands and can’t take reactions. While charmed in this way, the aboling and the target can communicate telepathically with each other over any distance. The aboling can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “Attack that creature,” “Run over there,” or “Fetch that object.” If the creature completes the order and doesn’t receive further direction from the aboling, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability. On its subsequent turns, the aboling must use its action to maintain this effect, or the effect ends. Whenever the charmed target takes damage, the target can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends. This effect also ends early if the aboling dies, is recalled, or is on a different plane of existence from the target. Once the aboling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Rubbery Hide II Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Rubbery Hide I Type : Passive (companion) The aboling gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. This improvement is in addition to the bonus from Rubbery Hide I. Probing Mind Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer, Enthral Type : Passive (companion) The aboling is always under the effects of the detect thoughts spell while it is summoned and can relay these read thoughts directly to its tamer while the aboling is within 100 feet of the tamer.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: abberation
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

