# Abyssal Adult Copper Dragon

**description**: An abyssal copper dragon is obsessed with feeling intellectually superior. If it can avoid confrontation, it will do so. Instead, it prefers manipulation and subterfuge. It takes great lengths in creating complex traps, hazards, and even riddles to break down its foes physically and mentally, all for the sake of showing off its perceived brilliance. An Abyssal Copper Dragon's Lair An abyssal copper dragon lives in maze-like cavern complexes located high atop the most treacherous mountains, either in the natural world or in the Abyss. The challenge rating of a legendary abyssal copper dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects: The dragon chooses a point it can see within its lair. It creates a 20-foot-radius sphere of orange gas centered on that point. The cloud spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The cloud lingers in the air until the dragon uses this lair action again or until the dragon dies. Each creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the creature spends its action that turn retching and reeling. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. The dragon chooses a point on the ground that it can see within its lair. The ground in a 20-foot-radius centered on that point sprouts hard spikes and poisonous thorns. The area becomes difficult terrain for the duration. When a creature moves into or within the area, it takes 5 (2d4) piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels and is poisoned until the start of its next turn. The transformation of the ground is camouflaged to look natural. Any creature that can't see the area at the time the spell is cast must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to recognize the terrain as hazardous before entering it. The effect lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. The dragon chooses a 10-foot-square area on the ground that it can see within 120 feet of it. The ground in that area turns into 3-foot-deep pool of acid slime. Each creature on the ground in that area when the slime pool appears must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall into the slime pool, take 7 (2d6) acid damage, and become restrained. A restrained creature takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature can take an action to attempt a DC 15 Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within its reach and ending the restrained condition on a success. Moving 1 foot in the slime costs 2 feet of movement. The effect lasts until the dragon uses this lair action again or until the dragon dies. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary abyssal copper dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Magic carvings of the dragon’s terrifying visage can be seen worked into stone terrain and objects within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair. Tiny beasts such as rodents and birds within 6 miles of the dragon's lair that are normally harmless become corrupted and evil. They serve as the dragon's eyes and ears and form as swarms that attack intruders on sight. Intelligent creatures within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair are prone to fits of melancholy and must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage to Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each hour, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this regional effect for the next 24 hours. If the dragon dies, the magic carvings fade over the course of 1d10 days. The other effects end immediately. Fiendish Dragon A fiendish dragon usually comes from a dragon egg that, performed during a dark ritual, was tainted with the essence of a demon lord or archdevil. In very rare instances, the offspring of a dragon and an archdevil or demon lord, who may or may not have been disguised as another dragon, become fiendish dragons. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The dragon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target . Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Breath Weapons (Recharge 5–6). The dragon uses one of the following breath weapons. Abyssal Acid Breath. The dragon exhales abyssal acid in an 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) acid damage and 27 (6d8) necrotic damage, and gains 1 level of exhaustion. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Abyssal Slowing Breath. The dragon exhales gas in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 27 (6d8) psychic damage, can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the creature can use either an action or a bonus action on its turn, but not both. These effects last for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with a successful save. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The dragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon, Dragon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

