# Abyssal Chimera of Baphomet

**description**: The abyssal chimera, though bearing a superficial resemblance to a typical chimera, emanates an aura of unparalleled cunning, malevolence, and unrelenting wickedness. It takes perverse pleasure in methodically stalking and toying with its unsuspecting prey, luring them into a false sense of hope before mercilessly rending their hopes asunder with its razor-sharp teeth and merciless claws, reveling in the agonizing demise it inflicts. Abyssal Chimera of Baphomet. The abyssal chimera of Baphomet, a creation of the demon lord himself, is a colossal and fearsome abomination standing 12 feet tall at the shoulder and measuring 25 feet in length. While it bears resemblance to a traditional chimera, its unique features set it apart. It is wingless and rather than three heads on its shoulders, it has a deplorable goat head situated at the back of its shoulders and a malevolent serpent as a tail. Its lion head possesses the ability to unleash a bone-chilling roar that leaves anyone who hears it paralyzed with unrelenting terror. The serpentine tail can deliver highly venomous bites and is also capable of releasing a cloud of deadly noxious gas, further augmenting its lethal arsenal. Baphomet and its commanders employ these abyssal chimeras for tracking and hunting, utilizing their formidable powers to sow fear and devastation upon their foes. Abyssal Creatures Abyssal creatures are typically the offspring of a demon and another species. Some creatures are transformed into abyssal versions after undergoing demonic rituals performed by powerful cultists. A very rare few are gifted abyssal power by demon lords, usually after imbibing the demon lord's blood. Demon-blooded. Abyssal creatures generally resemble their nondemonic parent, but closer inspection reveal their abhorrent nature: thick, leathery skin, oversized claws and teeth, and a more evil and depraved disposition. Greater abyssal versions show more characteristics of their demonic ancestry - horns, wings, and even additional limbs. They also demonstrate more powerful abilities and potent magic. Traits Labyrinthine Recall. Th abyssal chimera can perfectly recall any path it has traveled. Magic Resistance. The abyssal chimera has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The abyssal chimera makes one Bite, one Horns attack, one Tail attack, and one Claws attack. When its Abyssal Breath is available, it can use the breath in place of its Tail attack. When its Abyssal Roar is available, it can use the roar in place of its Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7) piercing damage. Horns. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) slashing damage. Abyssal Breath (Recharge 5–6). The abyssal chimera exhales abyssal gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) necrotic damage and 22 (5d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Abyssal Roar (3/Day). The abyssal chimera lets out a horrific, magical roar audible out to 120 feet. Any creature within 60 feet of the abyssal chimera that can hear its roar must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the abyssal chimera for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this abyssal chimera’s Abyssal Roar for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

