# Abyssal Lamia Monarch

**description**: Lamias often serve as minions to powerful demons. Because of the lamias' hedonistic nature, it is not uncommon for them to have intercourse with demons. In rare instances, a female lamia becomes impregnated and gives birth to the demon's offspring - a vile fiend known as an abyssal lamia. Greater Abyssal Lamia. As an abyssal lamia devours more souls, it gains power and may evolve into a greater form. It acquires more demonic characteristics and features, such as bat-like wings, potent magic, and other fiendish abilities. Abyssal Creatures Abyssal creatures are typically the offspring of a demon and another species. Some creatures are transformed into abyssal versions after undergoing demonic rituals performed by powerful cultists. A very rare few are gifted abyssal power by demon lords, usually after imbibing the demon lord's blood. Demon-blooded. Abyssal creatures generally resemble their nondemonic parent, but closer inspection reveal their abhorrent nature: thick, leathery skin, oversized claws and teeth, and a more evil and depraved disposition. Greater abyssal versions show more characteristics of their demonic ancestry - horns, wings, and even additional limbs. They also demonstrate more powerful abilities and potent magic. An Abyssal Lamia Monarch's Lair Forgotten crypts, pyramids, and ruins of ancient cities buried under the desert sands are the typical lairs of an abyssal lamia monarch. An abyssal lamia monarch encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the abyssal lamia can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the abyssal lamia can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The abyssal lamia emits a psychic scream. Each creature within 30 feet of the abyssal lamia that isn't a Demon must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The abyssal lamia casts charm person , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18). The abyssal lamia doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. It lasts until the abyssal lamia uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the abyssal lamia dies. One visible creature charmed by the abyssal lamia must use its reaction, if available, to move up to half its speed as the abyssal lamia directs or make one weapon attack against a target that the abyssal lamia designates. The abyssal lamia summons 2d4 dretches or 4d4 manes . A summoned Demon appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the abyssal lamia and acts as an ally of the abyssal lamia. It remains for an hour, until it or the abyssal lamia dies, or until the abyssal lamia dismisses it as an action. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the abyssal lamia fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The abyssal lamia has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The abyssal lamia makes one Claws attack and two Glaive or Intoxicating Touch attacks. Alternatively, it can make three Intoxicating Bolt attacks. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) slashing damage. Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. Intoxicating Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) psychic damage and the target is magically cursed for 1 hour. Until the curse ends, the target has disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws and all ability checks. Intoxicating Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) psychic damage and the target is magically cursed for 1 hour. Until the curse ends, the target has disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws and all ability checks. Whispers of the Damned (Recharge 5–6). The abyssal lamia chooses up to four creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Each target that can hear the abyssal lamia must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw, or it takes 27 (6d8) psychic damage and must use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make a weapon attack against one creature of the abyssal lamia’s choice that the abyssal lamia can see. Constructs, Demons, and Undead are immune to this effect. Teleport. The abyssal lamia magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The abyssal lamia casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: charm person, disguise self (any humanoid form), major image 3/day each: mirror image, scrying, suggestion 1/day each: dominate monster, geas, mass suggestion, project image Reactions Charm Foe. When a creature targets the abyssal lamia with an attack, the creature must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is magically charmed until the start of the abyssal lamia's next turn and its attack automatically misses. Legendary Actions The abyssal lamia can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The abyssal lamia regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Intoxicating Attack. The abyssal lamia makes one Intoxicating Touch or Intoxicating Bolt attack. Glaive (Costs 2 Actions). The abyssal lamia makes one Glaive attack. Abyssal Magic (Costs 3 Actions). The abyssal lamia uses Spellcasting, Teleport, or Whispers of the Damned, if available.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

