# Abyssal Ancient Silver Dragon

**description**: An abyssal silver dragon believes that all beings exist in a purposeless and chaotic universe and hates anything that strives for order and good. It rejects all religious and moral principles and ridicules those who uphold them. Because life has no meaning to it, an abyssal silver dragon shows no empathy and may annihilate anything it encounters, if it so desires. An Abyssal Silver Dragon's Lair Caverns and ruins in the coldest and most perilous places are the preferred lairs of an abyssal silver dragon. The challenge rating of a legendary abyssal silver dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects: The dragon chooses a point it can see within its lair. It creates a 20-foot-radius sphere of purple gas centered on that point. The cloud spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The cloud lingers in the air until the dragon uses this lair action again or until the dragon dies. Each creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is stunned. Creatures that don't need to breathe automatically succeed on this saving throw. Freezing mist fills the lair near the dragon. Each creature within 120 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 11 (2d10) cold damage and is restrained by ice for 1 minute. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 15 Strength check, breaking the ice on a success. The ice can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; hp 35; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to cold, poison, and psychic damage). On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't restrained by ice. The dragon targets a creature it can see within its lair. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed by the dragon for 1 minute. The charmed target obeys the dragon's verbal commands. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns or if it receives a suicidal command, ending the effect on itself on a success. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary abyssal silver dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Once every 10 minutes while within 6 miles of the lair, a hail of ice pounds a 20-foot-radius, 40 cylinder area centered on a point on the ground. Each creature within that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5 (1d10) bludgeoning damage and 5 (1d10) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Within 1 mile of the lair, psychic winds buoy the dragon's allies. Such creatures can take the Dash action as a bonus action. Creatures within 1 mile of the lair that aren't protected from extreme cold must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the end of every hour or gain one level of exhaustion. If the dragon dies, the hail storms fade over the course of 1d10 days. The other effects end immediately. Fiendish Dragon A fiendish dragon usually comes from a dragon egg that, performed during a dark ritual, was tainted with the essence of a demon lord or archdevil. In very rare instances, the offspring of a dragon and an archdevil or demon lord, who may or may not have been disguised as another dragon, become fiendish dragons. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The dragon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d10 + 10) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d6 + 10) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Breath Weapons (Recharge 5–6). The dragon uses one of the following breath weapons. Abyssal Cold Breath. The dragon exhales an icy necrotic blast in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 25 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 36 (8d8) cold damage and 36 (8d8) necrotic damage and gains 1 level of exhaustion. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Abyssal Paralyzing Breath. The dragon exhales paralyzing gas in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or take 36 (8d8) psychic damage and be paralyzed for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Change Shape. The dragon magically transforms into any Humanoid or Beast, while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the dragon is reduced to 0 hit points or if it uses a bonus action to end it. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The dragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 15 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw or take 17 (2d6 + 10) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Fiend (Demon, Dragon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

