# Abyssal Adult Brass Dragon

**description**: An abyssal brass dragon retains its gregarious nature. However, while regular brass dragons seek the company of others for the sheer joy of dialogue and discourse, an abyssal one does so because it craves the attention. It hungers for the awe and fear its audience manifests. The abyssal brass dragon delights in toying with its enemies, torturing them with false hope brought by friendly conversations before coldly revealing its true intentions: delivering a slow and painful death. An Abyssal Brass Dragon's Lair An abyssal brass dragon’s lair is usually a ruin, canyon, or cave network in a desolate, treacherous desert or in the depths of the Abyss. The challenge rating of a legendary abyssal brass dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects: An ominous psychic wind blows around the dragon. Each creature within 60 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage and is stunned until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't stunned. A cloud of abyssal sand swirls about in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet of it. The cloud spreads around corners. Each creature in it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 14 (4d6) necrotic damage and is blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the blinded effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary abyssal brass dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Tracks appear in the sand within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair. The tracks lead to natural hazards, monster lairs, and traps, while also leading away from areas that the dragon prefers to remain undisturbed. Images of Large or smaller monsters haunt the desert sands within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair. These illusions move and appear real, although they can do no damage. They will attack intruders that move within 30 feet of them and then vanish. A creature attacked must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 hour. A creature that examines an image from a distance can tell it’s an illusion with a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Any physical interaction with an image reveals it to be an illusion, because objects pass through it, but will trigger an attack. All water sources within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair becomes poisonous. Any creature drinking from it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 24 hours. If the dragon dies, the tracks fade in 1d10 days, but the other effects fade immediately. Fiendish Dragon A fiendish dragon usually comes from a dragon egg that, performed during a dark ritual, was tainted with the essence of a demon lord or archdevil. In very rare instances, the offspring of a dragon and an archdevil or demon lord, who may or may not have been disguised as another dragon, become fiendish dragons. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The dragon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Breath Weapons (Recharge 5–6). The dragon uses one of the following breath weapons. Abyssal Fire Breath. The dragon exhales abyssal fire in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 24 (7d6) fire damage and 24 (7d6) necrotic damage, and gains 1 level of exhaustion. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Abyssal Sleep Breath. The dragon exhales sleep gas in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or take 24 (7d6) psychic damage and fall unconscious for 10 minutes. This effect ends for a creature if the creature takes damage or someone uses an action to wake it. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The dragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon, Dragon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

