# Abyssal Ogre Boss

**description**: The abyssal ogre is a grotesque monstrosity, standing at over 13 feet in height, easily dwarfing its kin. Its hulking frame is covered in a thick, leathery skin, marked by an assortment of repulsive warts, boils, and tumors. Patchy clumps of coarse hair sprout sporadically across its body, adding to its hideous appearance. Long curving horns typically top its head, and its malevolent eyes emit an eerie green glow, reflecting its corrupted and tainted nature. This abyssal ogre is an ill-tempered, dimwitted, savage, and unpredictable monster, a true embodiment of chaos and evil. Bred and created by demon lords and their exarchs, abyssal ogres are used as expendable shock troopers by demonic armies and cults. A few that manage to survive the endless battles may develop other abilities over time. One such adaptation is the ability to unleash a cone of noxious gas. Abyssal Creatures Abyssal creatures are typically the offspring of a demon and another species. Some creatures are transformed into abyssal versions after undergoing demonic rituals performed by powerful cultists. A very rare few are gifted abyssal power by demon lords, usually after imbibing the demon lord's blood. Demon-blooded. Abyssal creatures generally resemble their nondemonic parent, but closer inspection reveal their abhorrent nature: thick, leathery skin, oversized claws and teeth, and a more evil and depraved disposition. Greater abyssal versions show more characteristics of their demonic ancestry - horns, wings, and even additional limbs. They also demonstrate more powerful abilities and potent magic. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the abyssal ogre fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The abyssal ogre has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The abyssal ogre uses Abyssal Roar if available. It then makes two melee attacks or two ranged attacks. Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. Abyssal Breath (Recharge 5–6). The abyssal ogre exhales abyssal gas in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) necrotic damage and 17 (5d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Abyssal Roar (3/Day). The abyssal ogre lets out a horrific, magical roar audible out to 120 feet. Any creature within 60 feet of the abyssal ogre that can hear its roar must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the abyssal ogre for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this abyssal ogre’s Abyssal Roar for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The abyssal ogre can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The abyssal ogre regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The abyssal ogre moves up to half its speed. Club (Costs 2 Actions). The abyssal ogre makes a Greatclub attack. Smash (Costs 3 Actions). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the abyssal ogre's next turn. If the target fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it is also knocked unconscious for 1 minute. The unconscious target repeats the saving throw if it takes damage and at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

