# Adamantine Golem

**description**: The legendary adamantine golem is the mightiest of all golems, unmatched in strength and toughness. Its 25-foot tall body is constructed from adamantine, the extremely rare metal found only in meteorites, veins of ore in the Elemental Plane of Earth, or near earth nodes deep within the Underdark. The adamantine golem resembles a huge iron golem, but with the adamantine's unmistakable silvery-gray sheen over the surface of its body. When it walks, the ground shakes and trembles. Unstoppable Juggernaut. Only the most powerful creatures should ever consider facing an adamantine golem as it is feared for its incredible strength and near invulnerability to all types of attack, magical or otherwise. Its devastating blows can destroy the armor and shields of its foes or even cause small earthquakes. Ancient Guardians. The adamantine golems are said to be the creations of gifted dwarven and gnomish artificers from the ancient kingdom of Ammarindar, once known for its prosperous adamantine mines before it fell to hordes of orcs and demons. It is rumored that a great treasure cache that included adamantine weapons and armor still remains locked in Ammarindar's forgotten vaults, guarded by the adamantine golems that the invaders were not able to bypass or defeat. Traits Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Limited Magic Immunity. The golem can't be affected or detected by spells of 6th level or lower. It has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Siege Monster. The golem deals double damage to objects and structures. Unusual Nature. The golem doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 32 (5d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage and the target must succeed on a DC 25 Strength saving throw or the Armor Class (AC) of the armor or shield (determined randomly) of the target takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty. If its Armor Class drops to 0, the armor or shield is destroyed. If the armor or shield is magical, the target gains advantage on the saving throw. Crushing Stride. The golem moves up to its speed in a straight line. During this move, it can enter Large or smaller creatures' spaces. A creature whose space the golem enters must succeed on a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is pushed 5 feet to the nearest space out of the golem's path. On a failed save, the creature falls prone and takes 32 (5d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage. If the golem remains in the prone creature's space, the creature is also restrained until it's no longer in the same space as the golem. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 25 Strength check. On a success, the creature is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the golem and is no longer restrained. Earthquake Smash (Recharge 5-6). The golem slams the ground, triggering an earth tremor and violently pelting the area with debris. Each creature on the ground in a 20-foot cube originating from the golem must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 55 (10d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and stunned until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and is neither knocked prone or stunned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

