# Adelifae, The Iridescent

**description**: With wings of unassuming brown and ochre, Adelifae is easy to ignore among the flashy nobles typical of seelie courts. But with a flutter, the hypnotic patterns of the autumn fey’s under-wings draw the eye, and tinkling music fills the air. Proud, cunning, and sober for a faerie, Adelifae is seldom drawn into acts of overt violence. They are a clandestine agent of Queen Soliana’s, gathering information and swaying courtiers with a gentle touch. A Mutual Demise. When Iris Clearwind asked for volunteers to test the mettle of the Material Plane, Adelifae knew that their saviour would need more than just brute strength to reclaim the Sunsworn Court and free their liege. Adept at charming and incapacitating, the court spy elected to join the Scarab, so that they might weed out those too easily beguiled by other fey creatures. Lair Actions Fey plants and the faerie presence have created a surplus of ambient magic that the faerie champions can manipulate to take lair actions. The saving throw DC and damage of the lair actions depend on the level of the hunt, as shown in the Variable Lair Action Statistics table. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam Vdist 3rd 12 3 ( 1d6 ) 5 ft. 7th 14 7 ( 2d6 ) 10 ft. 11th 15 10 ( 3d6 ) 15 ft. Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties) of wave 3, the faerie champions use a lair action; the champions can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Spatial Reshaping. The friction between the Material Plane and Plane of Fey starts to grind in a 10-foot-radius sphere centred on each of the champions. Each other creature in either of the areas must make a VDC Strength saving throw . The creature is pulled 10 feet toward the nearest champion on a failed save and pushed backward 10 feet from the nearest champion on a successful one. Embrace the Wild. The faerie champions send a surge of magic into the gateway that is instantly reflected in a flash of fey magic. Rifts appear in two 5-foot spaces the champions can see. For each space, roll a d6 on the Fey Magic Rift table below to determine the result. Fey Magic Rift d6 Fey Magic 1 A cracking bolt of energy explodes in the rift’s space. Each creature within Vdist of the space must make a VDC Dexterity saving throw , taking Vdam x 2 force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 2 Rainbow-coloured light erupts in a bursting kaleidoscope. Each creature within Vdist of the space must succeed on a VDC Constitution saving throw or be blinded until initiative count 20 of the next round. 3 Gravity doubles in a Vdist radius centred on the rift’s space. The affected area is difficult terrain until initiative count 20 of the next round. 4 A burst of psychic energy lashes out from the rift’s space. Each creature within Vdist of the space must make a VDC Intelligence saving throw , taking Vdam psychic damage and being unable to take reactions until the start of its next turn on a failed save, or half as much damage and no other effect on a successful one. 5 A writhing mass of vines and roots bursts from the ground in the rift’s space, lashing out in a Vdist radius . Each creature in the area must make a VDC Strength saving throw or be grappled ( escape DC equals VDC ) by the twisting plantlife. The plants wither and die on initiative count 20 of the next round. 6 A burst of chaos strikes in the rift’s space. Each creature within Vdist of the space must succeed on a VDC Charisma saving throw or have any magic items it is wearing or carrying temporarily lose their magical properties until initiative count 20 of the next round.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

