# Adoni Krevith, Blood Cult Commander

**description**: Commander of a blood cult, Adoni lurks in the ruins beneath a major city, slowly building his cult and awaiting the day he can take control of the city as a whole. Gifted with a natural affinity for blood magic, Adoni promises his followers control over the essence of life and teaches them to worship him as the scion of a god of life. Appearance. Adoni is a late-middle-aged man with hard, dark eyes and a well-kept but graying beard. Despite his age he is quite strong, and is fully capable of knocking foes aside with his cruel-looking bladed mace. His cult has brought in enough wealth over the years that his equipment is sturdy and well-made, and he is rarely found without his armor. Personality. Adoni is a cruel leader, striking fear into the hearts of those who follow him. In fact, his worshippers fear him for more than just his physical and magical strength - they see him as the child of a divine being who has the power to stop their blood in their veins should they turn on him. As a result, his followers are among the most zealous and fanatical members of any cult, and serve him unquestioningly. Plot Hooks A Bloody Trail. People have been disappearing from the streets of the city with only streaks of blood showing their last known location. All signs point to a place beneath the city as the source of the disappearances, and the city guard has put out a call for adventurers to explore the ruins below and find the culprit responsible. An Archaeological Expedition. A local archaeology society has gotten permission from the city to explore the ruins beneath its foundations. However, they are aware that the ruins may contain threats that they are unable to handle and look to hire the party as protectors or advance explorers. Night of the Ascension. The day Adoni has been waiting for has finally arrived. He and his cult pour forth from the ruins beneath the city and attack, taking captives for sacrifice in a final ritual: one that will transform Adoni into a true demigod. Tactics In combat, Adoni relies on his followers to provide support while he wades in, lashing about with his mace. Once he has identified the most dangerous threat (or another Intelligence-based spellcaster), he targets them with cannibalize , seeking to enhance his own abilities while reducing the threat of his foe. When Injured, he immediately summons a blood elemental to fight for him. If the fight looks especially dire (for example if his conjured elemental dies), he casts dark angel’s embrace and seeks to end the fight as swiftly as possible - fleeing before his flight speed from the spell wears off. Traits Spellcaster. Adoni uses Intelligence as his spellcasting ability. The DC for its spells is 16, and the attack bonus is +8. Rule of Bloody Iron. Allies of Adoni are immune to being frightened or charmed as long as he can be seen or heard and is not incapacitated. Additionally, whenever an ally of Adoni is reduced to 0 hit points while within his line of sight, each other ally that can see him gains 10 temporary hit points and gains a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls until the end of their next turn. Actions Multiattack. Adoni makes two Devastating Mace attacks. Devastating Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, one target, reach 5 ft.. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) bludgeoning damage, plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage, and the target must make a Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. On a critical hit, this attack deals an additional 16 necrotic damage and Adoni regains 16 hit points, with any excess healing being gained as temporary hit points instead. Cannibalize (1/Rest). Adoni casts cannibalize . One creature he touches must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury of Handicap III severity, “Cannibalized”. While Injured in this way, the creature’s highest ability score is reduced by 2 (along with all associated bonuses, not including max hp). Additionally, Adoni’s ability score is increased by 2. At the end of each of its turns, the creature can repeat the saving throw to remove the Injury, but the bonus to Adoni’s ability score remains until the spell ends (duration 1 minute). Dark Angel's Embrace (1/Day). Adoni casts dark angel's embrace * on himself, gaining the traits of a dark angel for 1 minute (requires concentration). While this transformation lasts, he gains a fly speed of 60 ft., a +2 bonus to AC, and has advantage on Strength and Dexterity checks and all saving throws against spells and magical effects. Additionally, he gains 70 temporary hit points. While these hit points last, his attacks deal an additional 4 (1d8) necrotic damage and 4 (1d8) fire damage, and are considered magical. His fingers transform into claws, which are natural finesse weapons and deal 3 (1d6) slashing damage. Bloody Siphon (1/Rest). Adoni casts bloody siphon. Adoni chooses up to four living creatures within 30 ft.. Each target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or lose 13 (3d8) hit points and gain a special Injury, “Siphoned” of Setback I severity. This Injury recovers automatically at the end of a long rest. On a successful save the creature loses half as many hit points and is not Injured. For each Injury he inflicted as a result of this spell, he can choose himself or another creature within range (up to once per creature). That creature regains 13 (3d8) hit points and can make a Constitution saving throw against the Temporary Recovery DC for any Injury from which it currently suffers. On a successful saving throw, that Injury is removed and the creature gains the appropriate Lasting Effect. Bonus Actions Call to Blood. Adoni magically and silently calls for two blood cultists to join him. These cultists arrive at the end of the current round, and act on their own initiative order. This ability can be used only if Adoni has two or fewer allies within 120 ft.. Reactions Bloody Marionette (Recharge 4-6). When attacked by a creature with blood in its body that is within 30 ft. of him, Adoni can momentarily seize control of the blood in their attacker’s veins in an attempt to halt its attack. The creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or automatically miss the attack. On a success, the creature has disadvantage on its attack instead. Conjure Blood Elemental (1/Rest). When Adoni becomes Injured, he casts conjure blood elemental . Adoni conjures a blood elemental in a space he can see within 60 ft. of him for 1 minute (requires concentration). The blood elemental acts on its own initiative, but he controls its actions. If he loses concentration on the spell, the blood elemental goes on a rampage, attacking the nearest living creature on each of its turns. In this case, the blood elemental does not disappear with the end of the spell, instead remaining until it is destroyed or it flees.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

