# Adult Red Dragon Vrykolakas

**description**: When an evil dragon, giant, or monstrosity is cursed and magically slain by a demon lord, it may rise as a vrykolakas if the demon lord wills it. At first, this powerful undead creature resembles its original form but with pale skin and bloodshot eyes. The vrykolakas has the ability to shift into its hybrid form, where it creature transforms into a more feral-looking creature with vampire bat-like features. In this form, the vrykolakas gains bat-like wings, fangs, and ears. Unlike a regular vampire, the vrykolakas has only Sunlight Hypersensitivity as a weakness. The vrykolakas exists to serve its master that spawned it and only gains its freedom if its master is destroyed. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the vrykolakas fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The vrykolakas regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in sunlight. If the vrykolakas takes radiant damage or damage from holy water, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the vrykolakas’s next turn. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The vrykolakas takes 20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Actions Multiattack. The vrykolakas makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage and 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vrykolakas regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d8 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Abyssal Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The vrykolakas exhales abyssal fire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 31 (9d6) fire damage and 31 (9d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Aura of Horror (Hybrid Form Only). Each creature of the vrykolakas’s choice within 60 feet of the vrykolakas must make a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, the creature's speed is halved, can't use reactions, can't make more than one attack per turn, and can use either an action or a bonus action during its turns, not both. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this vrykolakas' Aura of Horror for the next 24 hours. Change Shape. The vrykolakas polymorphs into a hybrid vampire bat or back into its true form. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Legendary Actions The vrykolakas can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The vrykolakas regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The vrykolakas makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The vrykolakas makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The vrykolakas beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the vrykolakas must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take 16 (2d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The vrykolakas can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

