# Adult Tundra Drake

**description**: The tundra drake is an unusual-looking creature. While it generally appears like a wingless white dragon, it also shares the characteristics of a wooly rhinoceros and a yeti. Its body is covered with ivory-white scales and shaggy, grayish-white fur and a large pointy horn protrudes from the front of its draconic-shaped head. Ambush Predator. The tundra drake moves with an apish gait, its powerful yeti-like arms enabling it to climb and scale steep surfaces with ease. When hunting, a tundra drake will hide underneath the snow or blend on a cliff's surface while waiting for prey to pass by. Once a potential target gets within range, the drake explodes into action, leaping with its outstretched claws. If the target is too far, it uses its powerful rear limbs to charge and ram it, crippling its victim before going for the kill. Steppe Hunter. A tundra drake usually preys on oxen, reindeers, and yaks, but will stalk and eat anything edible if food is scarce. A tundra drake is sometimes found in the company of yeti and frost giants who utilize the drake as a guard. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Incapacitating Charge. If the drake moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and incapacitated until the end of the drake's next turn. Snow Camouflage. The drake has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in snowy terrain. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite or Gore attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) cold damage, and the target can't use reactions until the end of the drake's next turn. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Glacial Breath (Recharge 5–6). The drake exhales a crippling cloud of freezing air in a 30-foot-cube originating from the drake. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 36 (8d8) cold damage and can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the target can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. These effects last for 1 minute. A target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage with no additional effects.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

