# Adult Aether Dragon

**description**: Aether Dragon “There is a saying on the Expanse: ‘The most beautiful sights are often your last.’ Do not seek beauty. Beauty is a warning. But…but I’m happy. I saw its glitterings scales, its starry sheen, its gaping maw. Truly, the greatest thing I’ve ever seen.” —The last thoughts Yerrik Still, author and adventurer Sailors of the Aetherial Expanse know to quickly adjust course if they see long, iridescent spines rising from the waves, though it is often too late. Aether dragons are some of the deadliest and most intelligent predators in the oceans of aether. While each has a personality of its own, many share a drive to hoard aetherium crystals that they routinely consume, causing crystalline growths to rupture between their scales. Unknown Origins. Scholars disagree about the true origins of the aether dragons. Some suppose that the creatures are born of pure aether in the Maelstrom at the center of the Expanse and merely take on the image of dragons. Others theorize that aether dragons are created when dragons from the worlds of the Material Plane become immersed in the aether ocean. Whatever the case, it’s clear that these dragons have an innate connection to aether that makes them immune to its deleterious effects, much like lesser aetherbeasts. Aquatic Aversion. Though aether dragons haunt the vast aether ocean, they despise water. Just as water and aether react in a volatile fashion, so do water and the flesh of an aether dragon. Only a few have learned of this weakness of the aether dragons, but those that do are sure to keep a few extra barrels filled with fresh water in the holds of their ships marked ‘Strictly Not For Drinking.’ When water comes into contact with an aether dragon, it causes a searing ice burn. Aether Sculptors. Aether dragons love to collect aetherium crystals both for their aesthetic qualities and for sustenance. When an aether dragon slays a particularly powerful foe or destroys an eminent vessel, it might take a trophy from the kill back to its lair. Here, the trophy is adorned with crystalline growths such that it takes on a kaleidoscopic coloration and geometric appearance, and floats weightlessly in the aether sea, balanced by the buoyancy of the crystals. An Aether Dragon’s Lair From the surface of the aether seas, an aether dragon’s lair is rather difficult to spot. The best signs that one might be nearby are small chunks of aetherium crystal floating atop the waves, or items encrusted with the gems rising to the top. This could mean that deep down at the bottom of the aether ocean is a submerged cave, shipwreck, kelp forest, or other sheltered location where an aether dragon lairs. Sometimes, aetherstorms rage over the lairs of ancient dragons, making them easy to spot but even harder to reach. Aether dragons prefer lairs with many escape routes and places to display their crystal-covered trophies. The challenge rating of a legendary aether dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon can take one of the following lair actions; the dragon can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Astral Hypnosis. Dazzling comet trails and glittering stars swirl in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet of it. The scintillations appear for a moment and vanish. Each creature in the area who sees the pattern must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed for the duration. While charmed in this way, the creature is incapacitated and has a speed of 0. Astral Projection. The dragon casts the astral projection spell. The spell ends early if the dragon uses this lair action again or dies. Dousing Aether. Each creature the dragon can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become aetherlogged, giving them disadvantage on their next saving throw against spells and other magical effects. Regional Effects The region surrounding a legendary aether dragon’s lair is altered by the dragon’s magic, creating one or more of the following effects: Aetherstorms . Once per day, the dragon focuses its psychic power to emotionally stir the aether around it, causing anguish in the element and creating an aetherstorm 1d6 miles in radius that lasts for 1d12 hours. Potent Poisoning . The Constitution score of creatures suffering from aether poisoning is counted as 1 in any reference to the development of their affliction while within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair. Crystalline Growth . Aetherium crystals form on solid surfaces such as the hulls of sunken ships or the walls of submerged caves within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair. If the dragon dies, the aetherium crystals remain, but new crystals form at a normal rate. The other effects fade immediately.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Source: custom
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 32048
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

