# Adult Illithidragon

**description**: Illithidragon When an illithid colony captures a live dragon wyrmling, it is brought to the elder brain. If the colony is thriving, the wyrmling is destroyed. If, however, the colony is in dire straits, the elder brain may decide the unthinkable and have the wyrmling undergo ceremorphosis, the process of transforming a creature into an illithid. In this case, the wyrmling transforms into an illithidragon. To ensure the illithidragon does not become a threat to the colony, the elder brain stunts the growth of the illithidragon at the very start of the process, preventing the illithidragon from reaching the age and size of an ancient dragon. Uncontrollable Force. The illithidragon tends to be loyal and subservient to the elder brain, serving the colony as its primary guardian. As it ages, however, its draconic nature of being selfish, egotistical, and superior rears up, and the elder brain starts to lose control over the illithidragon. As soon as this happens, the colony is ordered to destroy the illithidragon. However, the illithidragon is often already aware that it has become a threat to the elder brain and either escapes into the Underdark to begins its life anew, or destroys the elder brain, subjugates the colony, and installs itself as the new master. Mastermind. Just like mind flayers, an illithidragon is a depraved schemer and manipulator, enslaving weaker Underdark races to further its goals of amassing wealth, domination, and survival. Just like mind flayers, it subsists on the brains of other creatures. However, it can eat any intelligent creature's brain, not just humanoids. It hates and avoids other dragons, as they see its kind as an abomination that must be destroyed. Mind Destroyer. In combat, an illithidragon attacks its foes with its grasping tentacles and raking claws. If it manages to incapacitate a creature, it will try to extract its brain. Unlike dragons, an illithidragon has lost its breath attack ability. However, it can emit psychic energy waves just like a mind flayer. An Illithidragon's Lair An illithidragon's lair is always underground, and often within the deepest regions the Underdark. The illithidragon makes its lair in great stalactite-filled cavern complexes with twisting tunnels. Its main den where it keeps its treasure hoard usually has chambers at varying heights, with at least four or more means of egress. The illithidragon keeps enslaved humanoids such as derro, dire corbies, and quaggoths to patrol its lair's outermost passages and forms partnerships with more powerful creatures such as ropers to guard its lair's inner areas. The challenge rating of a legendary illithidragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the illithidragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the illithidragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The illithidragon casts telekinesis (no components required) While maintaining concentration on this effect, the illithidragon can’t take other lair actions. One creature the illithidragon can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the illithidragon as if the dragon had cast dominate monster on it. The effect ends on initiative count 20 on the next round. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary illithidragon’s lair is warped by the illithidragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Whenever a creature sleeps or enters a state of trance within 6 miles of the illithidragon’s lair, it experiences a haunting nightmare and wakes up, its rest interrupted. Non-evil creatures within 6 miles of the illithidragon’s lair randomly hear whispered voices in their heads. Plants, fungi, and animals within 1 mile of the of the illithidragon’s lair have twisted, aberrant forms and tentacles. If the illithidragon dies, the nightmares and whispers immediately end while the plants, fungi, and animals return to their normal forms over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the illithidragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The illithidragon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The illithidragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Tentacles attack and two Claw attacks. It can use Extract Brain in place of its Tentacles. Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage. If the target is Huge or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 19) and must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until this grapple ends. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Extract Brain. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated creature that has a brain grappled by the illithidragon. Hit: The target takes 77 (14d10) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the illithidragon kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the illithidragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the illithidragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the illithidragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The illithidragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect thoughts, levitate 1/day each: dominate monster, plane shift (self only) Mind Blast (Recharge 5–6). The illithidragon magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or take 41 (8d8 + 5) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The illithidragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The illithidragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The illithidragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The illithidragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The illithidragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the illithidragon must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The illithidragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration (Dragon)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

