# Adult Imperial Dragon

**description**: The long, serpentine dragon is wingless and possesses shimmering, opalescent scales. Its appearance is at once both serene and majestic. Dragons of the Spirit World. Imperial dragons are tied to the world of celestials, fiends, and spirits. They freely parley with such creatures for knowledge about the outer planes or the fundamental mysteries of the universe. Some of the most powerful imperial dragons even become the servants of the gods in exchange for wisdom, acting as intermediaries between the divine and mortal realms. Colorful and Magical. Imperial dragons are capable of changing their colors and forms. They are typically a rich, golden-yellow, but azure-, jade-, and vermillioncolored dragons are not unheard of, and even white and black imperial dragons have been reported. A magical organ in their skulls gives them the ability to fly without the aid of wings, and they are often hunted for this organ, which is rumored to grant eternal life if consumed. Masters of Wind and Rain. Imperial dragons are creatures of wind and water, and the eldest of their kind exhibit mastery of these elements. They love the seas where they make their homes and sometimes act as guardians for sacred sites or temples near or beneath the waves. This often puts them in conflict with militant aquatic races like the sahuagin and evil water-dwelling monsters like krakens and sea dragons . An Imperial Dragon’s Lair Imperial dragons live deep below the water, typically in large rivers, lakes, and seas. While some live in simple caves, most construct great palaces of coral and kelp. These magnificent structures contain areas where air-breathing creatures can live without discomfort, and the palaces of the oldest dragons are filled with menageries, bathhouses, and even entire libraries of rare and esoteric texts. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: * The dragon causes a bolt of lightning to strike a point it can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature within 5 feet of that point must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) lightning damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful saving throw. * The dragon calls coral to surround one creature it can see within 120 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained. While restrained in this way, the creature takes 10 (3d6) slashing damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature, including the target, can take its action to free the target by succeeding on a DC 15 Strength check. The coral can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; hp 15; vulnerability to bludgeoning damage; immunity to poison and psychic damage). The coral crumbles when the dragon uses this lair action again or when the dragon dies. * A whirl of water or wind appears on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet of it and disappears just as quickly. Each creature within 30 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 25 feet toward that point and knocked prone. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary imperial dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The dragon’s mood affects the weather and water within 6 miles of its lair. When the dragon is calm or sleeping, the sky is clear and the water still. When the dragon is angry or troubled, the sky is filled with storm clouds and the water becomes choppy. Fish and other marine life become more numerous within 3 miles of the dragon’s lair. Pearls within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair are imbued with healing magic. If a harvested pearl is crushed into a powder and then consumed, it provides the benefits of a potion of healing. If the dragon dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

