# Adult Desert Drake

**description**: Desert drakes are wingless dragons with thick, golden-brown hides that resemble overlapping armor plates. They have large horns on their snouts similar to a blue dragon's and long tails that end with bony clubs. Desert drakes, as their name implies, are usually encountered in barren wastelands, dust bowls, and dry badlands. Sand Lurkers. Desert drakes are ambush hunters. They use their specialized claws and tail to burrow and bury themselves deep into the sand and patiently wait until they sense the vibration caused by the movement of approaching prey. Upon reaching striking distance, the desert drakes explode from the sand, catch their targets by surprise, and bring them down quickly with savage attacks. Desert drakes typically hunt large reptiles and mammals such as camels, humanoids, and cattle. They will track and follow caravans for days waiting for an opportunity to snatch prey. Sand Breath. Desert drakes constantly swallow small amounts of sand which they store within their acidic bellies. When confronted with numerous foes or a dangerous opponent, desert drakes can disgorge the stored and now highly corrosive sand at their targets' eyes, burning and blinding them at the same time. Tail Clubbing. Desert drakes tend to be solitary and very territorial. During mating season, desert drakes converge and vie for the right to be the only male to mate with the females. The largest males challenge each other and fight using only their powerful tail clubs, taking turns smashing each other's bodies. Rarely do these matches end in death, but broken limbs and ribcages are common. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Hold Breath. The drake can hold its breath for 30 minutes or until it uses its Acid Breath. Sand Camouflage. The drake has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in sandy terrain. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage and if the target is Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Sand Breath (Recharge 6). The drake exhales corrosive sand in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) acid damage and is blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw with advantage on the roll at the end of each of its turns, ending the blinded effect on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. Reactions Tail Swipe. When an enemy the drake can see moves within 10 feet of the drake, the drake can make one Tail attack against that enemy.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

