# Adult Hellfire Wyrm

**description**: Hellfire Wyrm As part of her agreement of being a subservient champion of Asmodeus, Tiamat the Dragon Queen provided the Supreme Master of the Nine Hells some of her eggs. The eggs were brought to Mephistopheles and infused with Asmodeus's blood. The dragons born from these eggs were raised to become draconic agents loyal to Asmodeus and the ruling archdevils of the Nine Hells. These dragons became known as hellfire wyrms. To ensure the hellfire wyrms would not pose a threat to her, Tiamat deliberately cursed each egg. The cursed hellfire wyrm, no matter how old it was, would not grow to the size of an ancient dragon. Still, every hellfire wyrm, while subservient to the archdevils, recognize Tiamat as their mother and remain reverent to her. Fiendish Shapechanger. From afar, the hellfire wyrm is often mistaken for a red dragon. As one gets close to it, however, its supernatural aura and diabolical characteristics become more noticeable. It features osteodermic spikes protruding from its head and shoulders and a row of sharp bony spines run from the back of its head to the tip of its tail. Its scales continuously shift in the colors of flowing molten lava and its eyes burn with infernal intensity. The hellfire wyrm can also change its form to that of a tiefling or any Medium devil. It prefers its tiefling form, though, where the once fearsome hellfire wyrm effortlessly becomes a charming, endearing, polite, and eloquent creature. It is probably these traits, and its ability to magically disguise itself, that make the hellfire wyrm even more dangerous. Agent of the Nine Hells. The hellfire wyrm is sent to the Material Plane to insert itself into numerous powerful kingdoms and live among the humanoid races for an indefinite time, assuming different identities until it establishes itself successfully and secures a position of power, such as a chancellor, magistrate, or treasurer. In these roles, a hellfire wyrm can secretly influence and corrupt monarchs, people of high stations, and those in key, strategic positions to pursue actions and make decisions that align with the goals of its archdevil master or send as many souls possible to the Nine Hells, such as commit despotic acts and start unnecessary wars. The hellfire wyrm always makes these moves very carefully and takes utmost care to hide its diabolical nature. Anyone who becomes even remotely suspicious of the hellfire wyrm's true identity or actions is quickly and quietly eliminated by the dragon. The hellfire wyrm will only reveal its true draconic form if its life is in peril and it can't escape. Combat Tactician. In combat, the hellfire wyrm quickly searches for advantages and disadvantages it can exploit, such as the environment or its enemies' weaknesses. It keeps to the air against grounded targets, using only its spells and breath attack until it is confident enough to close in and finish them off. Its breath attack is a powerful cone of hellfire that can turn bone and flesh to ash in an instant. Those few who survive such an onslaught are still left vulnerable to fire and must contend with the hellfire wyrm's next attacks. A Hellfire Wyrm's Lair A hellfire wyrm keeps and maintains several homes in the cities found within the kingdom the dragon covers. These homes are often large, resplendent mansions guarded by mercenaries hired by the hellfire wyrm, who may not even know their master's true nature. These homes are just for show, though, and the hellfire wyrm only stays there in its tiefling form when it has tasks it needs to do in that city. When the hellfire wyrm is not actively scheming, it retreats to its actual lair, which is either inside the central vent of a volcano, a forgotten ancient ruins, or an underground cavern complex deep underneath the kingdom's capital. Because the hellfire wyrm is often away from its true lair, it never leaves it unguarded. Magma paraelementals lurk outside the entrances of the lair, while the hellfire wyrm's infernal minions, such as barbed devils, bearded devils, hellhounds, imps, lemures, merregons, nupperibos, and spined devils, patrol the inner passageways and chambers. Finally, the hellfire wyrm's innermost sanctum in its lair, where it hides its precious collections and accumulated treasure, is always protected by magical traps and sealed by magical locks. The challenge rating of a legendary hellfire wyrm increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: A storm made up of sheets of roaring flame appears in a location the dragon chooses within 120 feet of it. The area of the storm consists of up to eight 10-foot cubes, which the dragon can arrange as it wishes. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. Each creature in the area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. It takes 22 (4d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire damages objects in the area and ignites flammable objects that aren't being worn or carried. The dragon targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become paralyzed for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The dragon creates an opaque wall of fire on a solid surface it can see within 120 feet of it. The wall can be up to 30 feet long, 30 feet high, and 1 foot thick. When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (4d8) fire damage, or half as much damage on a successful save. Each side of the wall deals 9 (2d8) fire damage to each creature that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. The wall disappears when the dragon uses this lair action again or when the dragon dies. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary hellfire wyrm’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Unbearably hot, sulfuric smoke obscures the land within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair. Creatures take 3 (1d6) poison damage and 3 (1d6) fire damage at the end of hour spent in the area. Water sources within 1 mile of the lair are supernaturally warm and tainted by sulfur. Rocky fissures within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair form portals to the Nine Hells, allowing hell hounds and lesser devils (CR 5 or less) into the world to dwell nearby. If the dragon dies, the devils disappear immediately, and the other effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The dragon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Greater Spell Penetration. When the dragon casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) fire damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): At will: charm person, detect magic, disguise self, fire bolt (4d10) 2/day each: dispel magic, invisibility, suggestion 1/day each: divine word, plane shift Hellfire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon exhales hellfire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. On failed save, a creature takes 66 (12d10) fire damage and becomes vulnerable to fire damage until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The dragon magically transforms into a tiefling or Medium devil, while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the dragon is reduced to 0 hit points or uses a bonus action to end it. Heated Body. The dragon emits fire from its body. A creature that touches the dragon or hits it with a melee attack while within 10 feet of it and the Heated Body is active takes 5 (1d10) fire damage. The Heated Body remains until the dragon dies or until it dismisses it as an action. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Charm. The dragon casts charm person . Fire Bolt. The dragon casts fire bolt . Tail Attack. The dragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Dragon)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

