# Aerisi Kalinoth

**description**: Aerisi Kalinoth is the air prophet of the Elder Elemental Eye and leader of the Cult of the Howling Hatred. Tall and slender, with dark hair and (illusory) feathered wings that gently fan the air, Aerisi Kalinoth speaks to her people in a whisper that belies her violent temper, which reveals itself whenever she is denied. Aerisi was a sheltered moon elf princess named Dara Algwynenn Kalinoth who grew up in a remote Faerie realm. Her parents had wished to protect her from the harsh realities of the world, but they only succeeded in spoiling her. When they tried to discipline their willful daughter, she used the power of elemental air against them. Soon after, her dreams led her to the ancient dwarven ruins where the spear Windvane awaited her. Dara changed her name to Aerisi and pretended to be an avariel (winged elf) princess like the ones from her storybooks. Then Aerisi used her talents for enchantment magic to sway mortals into joining her cult. She has convinced all her followers that she is in fact an avariel, and believes it herself even though she must cast seeming each day to “reveal” her wings. Aerisi is prone to deluded flights of fancy and impulsive decadence. She sees herself as a beautiful, fierce, and just ruler who wields elemental power because she deserves it. In the Air Node When danger threatens the Temple of Howling Hatred, Aerisi retreats to the Howling Caves, the air node. Within this node, Aerisi gains one additional use of her Legendary Resistance trait. Lair Actions If Aerisi is in the air node while Yan-C-Bin isn’t, Aerisi can take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Aerisi uses a lair action to cast one of her spells, up to 3rd level, without using components or a spell slot. She can’t cast the same spell two rounds in a row, although she can continue to concentrate on a spell she previously cast using a lair action. Aerisi can take no other lair actions while concentrating on a spell cast as a lair action. If Aerisi casts invisibility using this lair action, she also draws the power of the air node into herself. By doing so, she regains 15 (3d8 + 2) hit points. Howling Hatred Cultists Most air cultists are idealists lured to the cult by lofty notions such as detachment from material possessions, bodily addictions, and physical desires. Some find their way to the cult in pursuit of rumors that they can learn to fly, tame the wind, or shed their obesity. Whatever their reasons, they eventually succumb to the cult’s subtle indoctrination, surrendering their worldly goods to the cult’s coffers and the hardiness of their bodies to the cult’s emaciating rites. Cultists that survive their initiation usually gain all the things the cult promised— at the cost of their free will. The Cult of the Howling Hatred relies upon deception and trickery both to recruit its members and defeat its enemies. Even so, those that underestimate the air cult for their mysticism shouldn’t forget the wild destructive power the cultists wield when they unleash cyclones and tornadoes. The Cult of Howling Hatred cooperates with the fire and water cults but they loathe the Cult of the Black Earth, viewing its members as stubborn, unenlightened drones without vision or imagination. Traits Fey Ancestry. Aerisi has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put her to sleep. Howling Defeat. When Aerisi drops to 0 hit points, her body disappears in a howling whirlwind that disperses quickly and harmlessly. Anything she is wearing or carrying is left behind. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If Aerisi fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Spellcasting. Aerisi is an 12th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). Aerisi has the following wizard spells prepared (an asterisked spell is from appendix B): Cantrips (at will): gust,* mage hand, message, prestidigitation, ray of frost, shocking grasp 1st level (4 slots): charm person, feather fall, mage armor, thunderwave 2nd level (3 slots): dust devil,* gust of wind, invisibility 3rd level (3 slots): fly, gaseous form, lightning bolt 4th level (3 slots): ice storm, storm sphere* 5th level (2 slots): cloudkill, seeming (cast each day) 6th level (1 slot): chain lightning Actions Windvane. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20 ft./60 ft., one target. Hit : 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage, or 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 3 (1d6) lightning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 7 (9 with lair actions)

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

