# Aethelfaer

**description**: A figure stalks the forest, blending with foliage and underbrush, eyes locked on his target. The doe heedlessly chews on grass and moss, oblivious to the hunter lurking between the trees. Deft fingers crafted from elm and owlbear teeth notch an arrow, hooking it on the sinew of the bowstring and drawing back. The raven feather fletching kisses the hunter’s cheek—a soft caress as he sets his shoulders, straightens his spine, and takes in a slow, deep breath. The forest pauses. All is still. The world comes down to this one moment. The arrow. The deer. Release. The arrow flies, the doe jolts. Large eyes opened wide, joints locked in fright. It’s a clean shot, straight through the neck. The deer staggers, its cry sharply cut off, before keeling to the ground, lifeless. Its suffering was short, as intended. The hunter approaches, the fingers of the elm wood prosthetic that forms his right arm flexing as he draws out a hunting knife, the blade serrated and hooked at the point. He thanks the spirits of the forest, for this kill shall serve him greatly, and kneels down, setting to work. None of this shall go to waste. Aethelfaer [pr. eθəɫfeə: / EH-thell-fair] is a male wood elf, committed to the nomadic lifestyle of roaming the forests and grasslands, protecting the wildlife and offering aid to those in need. He’s patient and calm, with an unflappable persona built on years of hunting and tracking. Aethelfaer inherited a genetic condition called meromelia, a syndrome that causes the partial absence of limbs. As a result, Aethelfaer is missing the lower part of his right arm from just above the elbow and has no right foot. Though he can navigate his life just fine on his own, he chooses to wear and make use of prosthetics. His right arm is crafted from red elm and owlbear teeth, with a hidden compartment inside the wrist where he stores a small container of poison for emergencies. His prosthetic foot is made of yew that has gone through the same magical strengthening and flexibility treatment as his longbow. A formidable warrior and deadly archer, Aethelfaer takes desecration and disrespect of the forest as a grave offense, and hunts his enemies to the end of the world if he must. As an ally, he is loyal, fair, and a true friend. However, once his respect is lost, it is gone forever. Common Signs Unlike thieves’ cant, which is a pidgin of borrowed signs, verbal words, and symbols from multiple languages, Common Signs is a complete sign language, borrowing from Dwarvish, Elvish, and Undercommon. It is considered a universal language and adapted by disabled communities, especially within cities. As such, most people across the realm can communicate using it. Common Signs is designed to be easy to learn, and spellcasters can make use of it to cast their spells. Effects that prevent casting spells with verbal components, such as the area of silence created by the silence spell, are still effective against casters who use Common Signs. While affected by such a spell or effect, the caster forgets the important signs needed to cast spells with verbal components. Aethelfaer as a Retainer Retainers first appeared in Strongholds & Followers and are unique NPC followers who ally with the characters. These adventurers are easy-to-run secondary characters controlled by players. Below is a retainer stat block for Aethelfaer. The full rules for retainers are explained in Strongholds & Followers. Aethelfaer Retainer Armor: Medium (AC 17) Primary Ability: Dexterity, Wisdom Saves: Strength, Wisdom Signature Attack: Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage. Special Actions 3rd-Level (3/Day): Poison Arrow . Aethelfaer makes his signature attack. If he hits a creature, the target must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 5th-Level (3/Day, Bonus Action): Cunning Action. Aethelfaer takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. 7th-Level (1/Day): Multiattack. Aethelfaer makes three signature attacks, then takes the Dash or Hide action. Aethelfaer’s Disability Aethelfaer was born with his disability and chooses to wear prosthetics to help him perform certain tasks when adventuring. Unlike someone who may have lost a limb due to injury, illness, or amputation, Aethelfaer doesn’t experience phantom limb syndrome, as his right arm and foot were never there to begin with. This also means that nothing short of a wish spell could reform these appendages, but Aethelfaer doesn’t seek to “cure” himself. In fact, he would be greatly insulted if offered or forced into a situation where such a spell is brought up as a means to somehow “fix” him. He has no need to be “fixed” or “cured” and little patience for those ignorant enough to think otherwise. The ranger is open about his disability and happy to answer questions others may have, but he doesn’t suffer fools. Aethelfaer is an expert in knowing who is being genuine and who is deliberately ignorant or rude. Prosthetics Aethelfaer’s prosthetic arm and foot slot over the stump of each limb and are further secured in place by leather harnesses: one around his shin and calf, and the other around his chest, sitting under his armor. It takes Aethelfaer 2 minutes to secure each harness and roughly 30 seconds to remove them. To prevent chafing or bruising–especially when wearing a prosthetic for long periods of time–Aethelfaer’s stumps are protected by “socks.” These pieces of fabric are rolled up and folded down to cover the skin and protect the area where the stump meets the cup of the prosthetic. At the start and end of each day, Aethelfaer uses powdered talc to keep the skin dry and free from any rashes, uncomfortable chafing, and blistering, particularly on warm days or when the humidity is high. When traveling or in an unknown location, Aethelfaer sleeps with his prosthetics on in case of an ambush or need to escape. However, if he is in a place he knows to be secure and safe, Aethelfaer removes his prosthetics to sleep and uses an underarm crutch under his left arm for support when moving around. Hidden Compartment Aethelfaer has a hidden compartment in his prosthetic arm, running the length of the inside of his wrist. By pressing the heel of his thumb (which requires no action), this slot pops open and reveals a metal groove packed with a strange paste. This alchemical component is a personal poison Aethelfaer has created himself, and exposing the compartment allows him to swiftly coat the head of any arrow or blade he draws with a toxic coating to deal extra damage. Natural Grip Aethelfaer’s prosthetic foot is crafted to have the general shape of a deer’s hoof. This allows for a greater range of motion in the ankle joint and enables that foot to take significant impact when running, climbing, or performing athletic or dexterous feats. The wedge of the prosthetic’s foot provides a better grip on mountainous and rocky environments, as well as the typical underbrush of the forest and dirt of the grassland. The flexibility of this prosthetic is showcased greatly whenever Aethelfaer is running or if he is lightly bouncing on the balls of his feet—something he does often when nervous or agitated. Aethelfaer’s Craftsmanship If the characters don’t make an enemy of Aethelfaer, he is happy to craft prosthetic limbs for characters who need them. However, characters need to find and provide him with the materials to do so. To craft a prosthetic arm or hand, Aethelfaer needs wood (any kind), leather straps, owlbear teeth, sinew, and resin. To craft a prosthetic leg or foot, he needs yew wood, leather straps, deer antler (ethically sourced), sinew, and resin. Aethelfaer knows a magical strengthening and flexibility wood treatment that is iconic of wood elf bow crafting and used in the creation of his prosthetics. If a character supplies Aethelfaer with the components, he doesn’t charge them for the service. Prosthetic Stats A prosthetic limb presents no advantages or disadvantages whenever you are wearing it, and you can perform all typical motor skills from everyday to fine. Prosthetics require no attunement and are secured to your body using a harness that sits underneath your armor. It takes 2 minutes to don the harness and 30 seconds to remove it. Prosthetic limbs can’t be knocked off unless the harness is somehow destroyed. Custom-made prosthetics, such as the ones worn by Aethelfaer, can provide benefits to you. See “Hidden Compartment” and “Natural Grip” for ideas. It is extremely important for Game Masters and other players to remember that disability isn’t a punishment and shouldn’t be held against a character. Missing Arm If you aren’t wearing your prosthetic arm/hand, you have disadvantage on wielding two-handed weapons and on ability checks using fine motor skills if you are only using that arm/hand. Missing Leg If you aren’t wearing your prosthetic leg/foot, your walking speed is reduced by 5 feet unless you are using mobility aids such as crutches or a wheelchair. More than a Disability Disabilities are very much a part of our lives, but aren’t what solely define a person. Aethelfaer does and should have interests as a fleshed-out character, with his disability making up only a part of who he is. As such, it’s important to note that Aethelfaer enjoys hunting, whittling animals out of wood, and gathering plants and herbs to produce potions and tinctures he then sells or trades for supplies. He is knowledgeable in the horticulture of forests and grasslands, and is exceedingly fond of ravens and other corvids. Traits Archery Fighting Style. Aethelfaer gains a +2 bonus to attack rolls with ranged weapons (included in the attack). Athletic Advantage. Aethelfaer has advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks made to climb and jump while wearing his prosthetic foot. Cunning Action. On each of his turns, Aethelfaer can use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Fey Ancestry. Aethelfaer has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to sleep. Poison Application. Aethelfaer keeps a container of poison in his prosthetic arm. As a bonus action, he can apply poison to one weapon or piece of ammunition. The poison remains potent for 1 hour or until that weapon or ammunition deals damage to a target. If struck by a poisoned weapon or piece of ammunition, the target must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Aethelfaer has twenty doses of poison. Spellcasting. Aethelfaer is a 7th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). He knows the following ranger spells: 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, hunter’s mark, longstrider 2nd level (3 slots): pass without trace, zone of truth Actions Multiattack. Aethelfaer attacks twice with his longbow or three times with his shortsword. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. Primeval Awareness. Aethelfaer expends a spell slot to focus his awareness on his surroundings. For 1 minute per level of the spell slot he expends, he can sense if any creatures of the following types are present within 1 mile: aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead. He can’t sense the creatures’ location or number. Reactions Deflect (1/Day). When Aethelfaer is hit by a ranged weapon attack and wearing his prosthetic arm, he can attempt to deflect the missile used in the attack. The damage he takes from the attack is reduced by 12 (1d10 + 7). If the damage is reduced to 0, Aethelfaer catches the missile and can make a ranged attack with it as part of the same reaction with a +9 bonus to the attack roll. The attack uses the missile’s original range.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (wood elf)
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 20089
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 7

