# Afanc Alpha

**description**: The curious creature known as the afanc is a predator that lurks in rivers and lakes, patiently waiting for prey to approach the water. It is a ravenous carnivore that will eat any creature of its size or smaller, although it prefers livestock, fish, and reptiles. Ambush Predator. Once a chosen prey is within range of its strike, the afanc would burst from the water and pounce on its target, latching its jaws on the victim's neck or back before biting with tremendous force to instantly snap it. If the prey manages to survive this initial assault, the afanc would drag it back into the water and try to drown it. Invisible Abomination. The monstrous afanc has the body and head of a 12-foot-long giant beaver, the limbs and jaws of a bear, and the claws, spine, and tail of a crocodile. Underneath the fur of the afanc is a tough armor-like hide covered with scutes similar to a crocodile's that can resist most blows. The afanc's crocodilian tail ends with a large, paddle-shaped plate identical to a beaver's tail. The afanc is always invisible before it attacks, appearing when it strikes. Once it has killed its prey, it immediately turns invisible again and retreats to its lair with its prize where it can feed in peace. Force Manipulators. Older afancs are even more dangerous. By simply slamming their tails on a surface, their paddle-shaped tails vibrate and create supernatural waves of force that the afanc can direct, instantly killing most creatures hit by them. Afancs sometimes use this ability to create a tidal wave or whirlpool strong enough to overturn a small boat to toss its occupants overboard. An afanc is usually encountered alone or as a mated pair. Rarely are there more than two in the same territory, but if a large group exists, it is most certainly led by an alpha. Traits Hold Breath. The afanc can hold its breath for 15 minutes. Actions Multiattack. The afanc makes three attacks: one with its Bite, one with its Claws, and one with its Tail Club. When its Force Wave is available, it can use the Force Wave in place of its Tail Club attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is also grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the afanc can't make Bite attacks against other targets. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. Tail Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 5 feet away from the afanc and knocked prone. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is also stunned until the end of the afanc's next turn. Invisibility. The afanc magically turns invisible. The invisibility ends when the afanc attacks, uses Force Wave, or if it takes damage. Force Wave (Recharge 5–6). The afanc slams its tail on the ground and creates a wave of supernatural force. Each creature in a 15-foot cube originating from the afanc must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (4d8) force damage and is pushed 10 feet away from the afanc. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

