# Agar Valon, The Plaguemaster

**description**: Agar Valon was once a druid, but turned his focus toward altering life rather than protecting it. Although disease is a natural part of life for most creatures, Agar’s obsession with it led him down darker paths. He found ways to make himself immune to them - not through natural methods, but through secret rituals that infused the diseases into his body, making him a carrier of plagues that could no longer die from them. A perfect host. Now, he resides deep in an old, dying forest, slowly spreading his diseases from his blackened and blighted druid grove. He keeps his grove enchanted with an enshrouding miasma* lair spell, and what creatures reside within now find themselves immune to poison, with most becoming carriers of the diseases Agar spreads. Appearance. Agar is a thin human man whose spine has hunched slightly with age. Though old, he is far from feeble, and possesses an uncanny amount of strength for his slight frame. His wrinkled skin is a pale, sickly green, warning anyone who succeeds a DC 15 Intelligence (Medicine) check that he has been afflicted with Bog Rot. The rituals and diseases he carries have taken most of his hair, leaving him bald and spotted. The sclera of his gray eyes have a sickly yellow hue, and their bloodshot veins are an unnatural greenish brown. Personality. Agar is obsessed with diseases and their ability to kill or grievously impair some while leaving others seemingly untouched. He believes that those capable of surviving the worst of all diseases are those most worthy of life, and seeks to spread plagues and illnesses to cleanse the world of the weakest life forms as he sees them. Plot Hooks Renew the Forest. A circle of druids has learned of Agar’s blighted grove and wishes to restore its health. They need the party’s assistance in protecting them while they dispel the miasma, and then in putting an end to Agar Valon’s schemes once and for all. Serve the Plague. The party seeks poisons or diseases to use against an enemy, and Agar has them aplenty- for a price. The party must aid Agar with his schemes before he will give them what they need. Hair of the Dog. Someone in the party or that the party cares about suffers from a mysterious disease, and no healer is able to help. They learn of Agar as a master of diseases and seek his aid, but what would convince him to give it? The party may be able to help him in return for a promise of treatment, but they also may be able to find a cure by obtaining his research notes. Tactics Agar stays back as long as possible, throwing Blister Sap Vials and using his Plaguing Swarm ability while his allies keep his opponents occupied. He also uses Plaguemaster’s Gift to accelerate the Bog Rot disease whenever possible, especially in any creature that has already contracted the disease. When forced into melee combat, he relies on his Plagued Form and Toxic Aura as deterrents, regenerating as much as he can using his Parasitic Regeneration and fleeing when the fight looks impossible. Traits Parasitic Regeneration. Whenever another creature within 30 ft. of Agar Valon becomes poisoned, sickened, diseased, or takes poison damage, Agar Valon regains 5 hit points (max 10 hit points per turn). Plagued Form. Agar Valon’s body contains innumerable plagues, making his entire body toxic. Whenever he suffers an Injury, each creature within 5 ft. of him must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of his next turn and contract the bog rot disease. A creature that fails this save by 5 or more, or that is already poisoned, is sickened instead. Plaguemaster. Creatures normally resistant to poison are not resistant to poisons inflicted by Agar Valon, and creatures normally immune to poison are considered resistant against his poisons instead. Toxic Aura. Each creature that starts its turn or enters a space within 10 ft. of Agar Valon for the first time on its turn takes 4 (1d8) poison damage. Actions Blister Sap Vial. Agar Valon throws a vial of enhanced Blister Sap at a point within 30 ft.. Each creature in a 10-foot radius centered on that point must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) acid damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage and gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, “Blistered”. On a successful save creatures take half damage and do not gain an Injury. While Injured in this way, a creature has disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws until the end of its next turn, after which it takes a -1 penalty instead. The creature also gains advantage on Charisma (Intimidation) checks and disadvantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks. This Injury is removed automatically at the end of a long rest, or if the creature receives magical healing from a spell of 5th level or higher in conjunction with a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check made over a period of at least 10 minutes. Plaguescarred Scythe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4+3) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Any Injury inflicted by this attack has its Medicine DC increased by 5. On a critical hit, this attack deals an additional 5 (2d4) slashing damage (in addition to any bonus damage from the critical hit). Plaguing Swarm (recharge 5-6). Agar Valon summons a swarm of mosquitos to plague his foes. Agar Valon chooses a point within 60 ft., each creature of his choice in a 20-foot radius of the point must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 14 (4d6) damage and have their Injury thresholds reduced by 10 until the end of his next turn, or until they suffer an Injury, whichever comes sooner. Bonus Actions Plaguemaster’s Gift (recharge 6). Agar Valon lazily casts an arm out toward another creature within 30 ft., blowing a fine dust in their direction. That creature must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or contract the Bog Rot disease. A creature that fails this saving throw by 5 or more, or that fails its saving throw while already afflicted with Bog Rot, which was already afflicted, it immediately progresses to Midstage for the disease. A creature already at Midstage or Late Stage does not progress.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

