# Akkorokamui

**description**: The water tumbles and foams as eight massive red tentacles burst upward. The akkorokamui safeguards river mouths, bays, lakes, and coastlands, protecting against any who would despoil the natural world. It has a particularly strong hatred for undead and necromancers. Benevolent and Powerful. While fierce, the akkorokamui can be benevolent, and many fishermen and travelers give offerings for safe passage through the creature's waters or for its magical healing. The akkorokamui can detach part or all of one of its tentacles and offer the flesh to feed lost travelers or heal supplicants, though woe betide those who deceive the akkorokamui or take its aid for granted. Wise and Fickle. The akkorokamui is an ancient creature that quietly observes the world from its watery domain. Centuries of offerings of knowledge, stories, and treasures fill its mind and its lair, and many are just as likely to seek the akkorokamui for its wisdom as for its ability to cure ailments. However, it is fickle and particular about who it aids. Those seeking the akkorokamui's ancient wisdom or powerful healing would be wise to arrive with an offering of knowledge, magic, treasures, or exotic foods. An Akkorokamui's Lair Akkorokamuis live in sacred coves, bays, lakes, or inlets, typically in underwater caverns, sunken temples, or submerged palaces. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the akkorokamui takes a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the akkorokamui can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Entangling Vegetation . Seaweeds wrap around up to three creatures the akkorokamui can see within 90 feet of it. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the seaweed. A creature, including the target, can take its action to free the target by succeeding on a DC 15 Strength check. The seaweed wilts and floats away when the akkorokamui uses this lair action again or when the akkorokamui dies. Suppress Healing . Magical healing is suppressed in a 60-foot radius centered on a point the akkorokamui can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature other than the akkorokamui in that area that rolls one or more dice to restore hp uses the lowest number possible for each die, regardless of the numbers rolled. For example, instead of regaining 2d4 + 2 hp from drinking a potion, a creature regains 4 hp. The suppression lasts until the akkorokamui uses this lair action again or until the akkorokamui dies. Undertow . A strong current moves through the akkorokamui's lair. Each creature within 60 feet of the akkorokamui must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failure, it is pushed up to 60 feet away from the akkorokamui. On a success, it is pushed 10 feet away from the akkorokamui. Regional Effects The region containing an akkorokamui's lair is imbued by the creature's celestial presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: Calm Weather. Storms and adverse weather within 1 mile of the lair are suppressed if the akkorokamui wishes it. Detect Intruders. Whenever a creature with an Intelligence of 3 or higher comes within 1 mile of the lair, the akkorokamui becomes aware of the creature's presence and location. Promote Growth. Native fish and plant life within the water containing the lair are more abundant, colorful, and larger than normal. If the akkorokamui dies, fish and plant life in the region return to their normal sizes and colors within 1d10 days, but the other effects fade immediately. Amphibious. The akkorokamui can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the akkorokamui fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The akkorokamui has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magic effects. Magic Weapons. The akkorokamui's weapon attacks are magical. Offering of Flesh. The akkorokamui can spend 1 minute carefully detaching part, or all, of one of its 100-foot-long tentacles, dealing no damage to itself. The tentacle contains a magic-imbued fleshy hook and enough meat for 25 rations (if part of a tentacle) or 50 rations (if a full tentacle), if properly preserved. The fleshy hook remains imbued with magic for 4 hours or until a creature eats it. A creature that eats the magic-infused fleshy hook regains 50 hp, then it is cured of blindness, deafness, and all diseases or restores all lost limbs (the creature's choice). The limb restoration effect works like the regenerate spell. The fleshy hook's magic works only if the akkorokamui offered the flesh willingly. Regeneration. The akkorokamui regains 15 hp at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hp. Siege Monster. The akkorokamui deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack. The akkorokamui makes three Tentacle attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting or Healing Touch. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The akkorokamui has eight tentacles, each of which can grapple one target. Radiant Wave (Recharge 6). The akkorokamui releases a burst of radiant water. Each hostile creature within 30 feet of the akkorokamui must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Undead have disadvantage on the saving throw. Healing Touch (3/Day). The akkorokamui touches another creature. The target magically regains 20 (3d8 + 2) hp and is freed from any curse, disease, poison, blindness, or deafness. Spellcasting. The akkorokamui casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: detect evil and good , detect poison and disease 3/day each: control water , legend lore (as an action) 1/day: geas (as an action) Reactions Guardian's Grasp. When a creature the akkorokamui can see within 30 feet of it is the target of an attack, the akkorokamui can pull the creature out of harm's way. If the creature is willing, it is pulled up to 10 feet closer to the akkorokamui, and the akkorokamui becomes the new target of the attack. If the creature isn't willing, this reaction fails. Legendary Actions The akkorokamui can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The akkorokamui regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Discern. The akkorokamui makes a Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Insight) check. Jet. The akkorokamui swims up to half its swimming speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The akkorokamui uses Spellcasting. Tentacle Sweep (Costs 2 Actions). The akkorokamui spins in place with its tentacles extended. Each creature within 20 feet of the akkorokamui that isn't grappled by it must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 19 (4d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Each creature grappled by the akkorokamui must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or take 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Celestial (Titan)
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

