# Akuzhail

**description**: Transformed and mutated by the Cult of the Bloom, the warped chimera Akuzhail is now the host of the bloom of Lamashtu. While you can use Akuzhail as a unique mutant chimera in your own game, you can also use these statistics to represent an entire species of variant chimeras—perhaps a pride of these monsters dwell in the Mana Wastes, or maybe they’re genetically engineered creatures that break loose from a buried zoological ship module in Numeria. They could even be used in play as fleshwarp monstrosities from Thassilon, Nexian fleshforges, or drow laboratories, especially if you change their narrative description from that of chimeras with the heads of vultures, centipedes, and rattlesnakes to something even more outlandish. Traits Bloom Stride. Akuzhail can move through the undergrowth in its lair without issue and does not treat this cavern as difficult terrain. Life Bloom. When Akuzhail dies, its body explodes in a riot of seething vegetation and raw life. All non-undead, non-construct creatures within a 60-foot radius regain 42 (12d6) hit points. A fully grown bloom of Lamashtu emerges from the carcass, but it can take no actions on this turn. Next round, this bloom of Lamashtu enters combat at the same initiative as Akuzhail, but the bloom can take a single action or bonus action (not both), regardless of its abilities or magic items, it can’t make more than one melee or ranged attack during its turn, its speed is halved, and it can’t take reactions. At the end of the bloom’s turn, these limitations no longer affect the creature. Three Heads. Akuzhail has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Any ability that would sever its head (such as a vorpal weapon ) severs one head at random. Losing a head doesn’t kill Akuzhail (as long as it has one head left), but it does prevent it from making attacks with the lost head or using the head’s Breath Weapon. Reactive. Akuzhail can take one reaction on every turn in a combat, to a maximum each round of one reaction by each head. Actions Multiattack. Akuzhail can use its Frightening Rattle. Akuzhail then makes four attacks: one with its beak, one with its fangs, one with its mandibles, and one with its claws. When its breath weapon is available, it can use the breath weapon in place of its fangs. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 13 (2d6+6) slashing damage. Centipede Mandibles. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 13 (2d6+6) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) acid damage. Snake Fangs. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d8+6) piercing damage and the target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Vulture Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d8+6) piercing damage. Breath Weapon (Recharge 5–6). The snake head exhales venom in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 38 (11d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Frightening Rattle. Akuzhail shakes the rattle at the end of its tail to distract and frighten its enemies. Any creature within 30 feet must succeed at a DC 16 Wisdom save or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Akuzhail’s Frightening Rattle for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

