# Alabroza, Bloodfiend

**description**: Black bat wings erupt from the back of this bird-like monstrosity. Covered in jet black feathers, it has a long, thin beak, perfect for stabbing, and wicked, razor-sharp talons. Alabroza are bird-like monstrosities created by Alquam, Demon Lord of Night (see Tome of Beasts) and let loose in the realms of mankind. At night, these creatures drain the milk from sheep and goats or blood from horses in their stables. When the animals' owners take steps to protect their livestock, the alabroza turns its attention to the settlement's humanoid inhabitants instead, drinking their blood as they sleep. Alabroza need to consume fresh milk or blood each night, or they become weak and eventually die. Because of this, they prefer to live close to farms, villages, and towns, where food is plentiful and easy to obtain. Bloodthirsty. An alabroza must drink at least 1 pint of fresh blood or milk every 24 hours or it suffers one level of exhaustion. Each pint of blood or milk the alabroza drinks removes one level of e xhaustion. Actions Multiattack. The alabroza makes three Broomstick attacks, two Talons attacks, or one Beak attack and one Talo ns attack. Beak (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage, and the alabroza attaches to the target. While attached, the alabroza doesn't attack. Instead, at the start of each of the alabroza's turns, the target loses 12 (2d8 + 3) hp due to blood loss. The alabroza can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its movement. It does so after the target is reduced to 0 hp. A creature, including the target, can take its action to detach the alabroza by succeeding on a DC 13 Stren gth check. Talons (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) pierci ng damage. Broomstick (Humanoid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoni ng damage. Hypnotic Gaze. The alabroza fixes its gaze on one creature it can see within 10 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 minute. While charmed, the creature is incapacitated, has a speed of 0, and refuses to remove an attached alabroza. A charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the alabroza's gaze for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The bloodfiend alabroza casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell sa ve DC 12): At will: minor illusion 3/day each: detect thoughts , suggestion Bonus Actions Change Shape. The alabroza transforms into a Medium humanoid, a Small cloud of mist or back into its true bird-like fiend form. Other than its size and speed, its statistics are the same in each form, with a few exceptions while in mist form, as detailed below. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. It reverts to its true form i f it dies. While in mist form, the alabroza can't take any actions, speak, or manipulate objects, and it has resistance to nonmagical damage. It is weightless, has a flying speed of 20 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature's space and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through a space, the mist can do so without squeezing, and it can't pass thro ugh water.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fiend (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

