# Alta'ira Vex, Crime Lord of Palvada

**description**: As the crime lord of Palvada, a wealthy port city on the edge of a great desert, Alta'ira's syndicate holds a dagger at the throat of every powerful individual in the city, and no trade deal goes through without her consent. Alta'ira leads her syndicate from a palatial estate whose splendor matches that of the merchant lords and religious institutions elsewhere in Palvada. Alta’ira’s footsoldiers are loyal, both because they are paid to be, and because they know that any treachery they pay her will be returned 10-fold to them and their families. She has heard the notion that ruling through fear is not sustainable, but rejects the idea: it’s worked well enough for her so far. Description. Alta’ira is a brown-skinned woman with long black hair and amber eyes. Though she is most commonly seen wearing expensive clothing and jewelry, she is rarely found without her signature curved dagger and some piece of blue - the color worn by those in her syndicate. She also carries an unreasonably large number of concealed daggers, though no one would dare accuse her of it. Personality. Alta’ira is friendly to those she distrusts, cruel to those she despises, and callously humorous with those she trusts. She does not hesitate to enforce her (often quite draconian) rules, and oversees punishments of traitors in her ranks personally. Alta’ira has few people she trusts, and even those she trusts are not her friends. There are few people she would not sacrifice for her personal gain, and those around her do well to remember that. Plot Hooks A rebel in crime. Alta’ira has placed a bounty on one of her ex-lieutenants. The party can either accept the mission and be rewarded handsomely, or help the lieutenant escape, potentially learning vital details about the syndicate’s inner workings. A helping hand. A wealthy merchant needs to convince Alta’ira to allow a trade agreement through, but she seems to have a grudge against them. The merchant hopes to hire the party to find out what the grudge is, and fix it if they are able. Shadows in the sands. Alta’ira’s soldiers have been seen going into the desert at night and entering an ancient ruin. Palvada’s rulers want to know precisely what she is up to, and hire the party to find out. Tactics Alta’ira relies on her allies in combat, calling them in whenever her numbers begin to run low. She uses her detailed knowledge of her opponents to determine the best foes to target, and goes after them one at a time, focusing her allies on providing her sneak attack and on keeping her enemies away from her. She does not take on fights she doesn’t think she will win, so if her information tells her she can’t handle her opponents she uses her allies as a shield and makes her escape. Traits Dagger Master. When wielding two daggers, Alta'ira's AC increases by 1 (already included). Additionally, Alta'ira increases the damage die of her daggers from 1d4 to 1d6, and she can draw or stow two items in the time it would take to draw or stow one item. Alta'ira carries dozens of daggers on her person, which can only be detected with a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check made from within 5 ft. of Alta'ira. Crime Lord of Palvada. Alta'ira has an ever-present network of spies and thugs. She always knows her opponents' usual strategies, desires, goals, and the like. Additionally, at the start of each of her turns, as long as she is not incapacitated and is in Palvada, she can call out or signal for an ally to appear. If she cannot be seen or heard, or if she has more than two allies within 120 ft. she cannot use this feature. Use a scout or guard NPC to represent her ally in combat. Sneak Attack. Once per turn, when Alta'ira hits with an attack against an enemy that hasn't acted yet in combat, who is within 5 ft. of one of her allies, or who she has advantage against, she deals an additional 17 (5d6) damage with that attack. Actions Multiattack. Alta'ira makes two Dagger attacks. Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 10/20, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing or slashing damage. Cut 'em to Ribbons (recharge 6). Alta'ira makes three melee Dagger attacks against the same creature. For each of those attacks that hits, she gains another attack at disadvantage. If one of those attacks hits, it deals an additional 3 (1d6) damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (half-elf)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

