# Aluphax Battlemaster

**description**: Aluphax The aluphax are a barbarous species with stout frames, skin covered with a layer of thick fur, elongated heads dressed with long horns, and wide jaws filled with rows of jagged, sharp teeth. Conquering Forces. Throughout their history, the aluphax have been one of the more dominant of species in their part of the galaxy, their power stretching across many of the Rim Sectors. That changed with the arrival of other spacefaring societies, their expansion and influence considered an invasion into aluphax territory. Never abandoning their tradition of strength and power above all else, the aluphax attack, raid, and then eradicate any intelligent civilization that does not yield and swear to obey and serve under their authority. Regardless of their fate, the aluphax use their plundered resouces to establish a foothold in the galactic region and expand their territory. Because of this, aluphax tribes tend to move regularly from system to system, never settling in one particular part of the galaxy. By Tribe or By Deed. Most aluphax belong to a tribe that gives an individual their own name and reputation. When a civilization is subjugated, the conquering aluphax tribes claim their accolades and demand rightful respect from those beneath their station. A spawning ground is then established in or near the center of the tribe's territory, where aluphax elders produce their offspring. Those that prove themselves worthy in the initial trials are inducted into the tribe. A chosen few among the aluphax have accomplished deeds great enough to elevate themselves beyond their tribal identity. Such legendary figures often form tribes of their own, establishing a new banner by which to sew terror and dread among their foes. Spawn of the Ocuth. The history of the aluphax, according to their ruling tribes, begins with their creators, the Ocuth. When the galaxy was new, these primordial beings possessed the capacity to shape and mold the stars to their design. Since the Ocuth could travel across the infinite expanse, entire galactic civilizations trembled in the wake of their power. Their greatness, however, was to be short lived. Usurpers devised a devious plan to steal the Ocuth's power and use it against them. Unaware of the grand betrayal, the great primordials fell from power, but not before scattering remnants of their own across the galaxy. It is from these remnants, according to legend, that the first aluphax tribes were born. The aluphax strive to expand their reach across the galaxy once more to reclaim the greatness once stolen from their great ancestors. Most tribes believe that the usurpers evolved to become the species that now call themselves valna. Though the valna would normally bear no general hostilities, the continued savage attacks from the aluphax have created an enmity between these two species. The aluphax's brutal nature have evoked similar long-term conflicts with the eldori, dendus, and humans. Tips and Tactics Though aluphax are a mostly aggressive and hostile species, they don't blindly charge into battle. They instead plan for the greatest advantage, be it the opportunity to surprise an enemy or to identify and team up against the weakest in a group of enemies. Aluphax Warrior The majority of aluphax, upon their birth, are trained to fight. Those that survive their early years become members of the tribe. Those that show exemplary prowess become the tribe's warriors, devoting their life toward bringing glory to their tribe through strength and dominance. Aluphax Battlemaster The tribe's strongest warriors attain hold the title of battlemaster. Battlemasters plan and lead the charge in military assaults and invasions. Aluphax Avenger Though rare among their people, some of the greatest of the aluphax attain such legendary skill that they can seemingly bend time and space to their will. These avengers are considered to be ones chosen by the spirit of the Ocuth and gifted with supernatural power.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (aluphax)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

