# Amerta

**description**: Amerta are enigmatic and little-understood protectors of the erahthi, arising from the impenetrable forests of Kir-Sharaat when its people are threatened or in dire need. Appearing as a twisting serpentine form of melded vines and plants resembling a dragon, the amerta is actually composed from the amalgamated bodies of thousands of erahthi and is believed to contain a gestalt of all of its constituent bodies’ experiences. Legends of the Past. Erahthi history speaks of the amerta as much more active in the ancient past during the war with the zahajin. Erahthi tales tell of dozens of amerta crashing into the depths of the Darkwild, doing battle with ancient and unspeakable fey allies of the zahajin. Perhaps because of this tremendous activity and sacrifice, few amerta are believed to exist in the modern day. It is assumed that amerta hibernate for long periods of time, only awakening when called by force and purpose only an amerta understands. It is also possible that the amerta wake only during certain alignments of the cycles of moons on Kir-Sharaat. Given the fact that no amerta has been seen since the taur stole one of Kir-Sharaat’s moons, the latter hypothesis seems likely, but the creatures are so shrouded in mystery that not even the eldest of the erahthi can say. The Tritarch claim that the amerta are extensions of their divine will, representing the more destructive and primal forces of nature and are only partly under their control. However, like much pertaining to the full extent of the Tritarchs’ power, little proof has been afforded to these claims, and most erahthi are content to take this notion at face value. On the handful of occasions an amerta appeared during the Century War, the losses suffered by Hierarchy forces were catastrophic. However, there seemed to be no rhyme or reason to the timing or nature of these attacks. Amerta were nowhere to be seen during the Scourge of Kir-Arkhal, which claimed more than ten thousand erahthi lives. Sleeping Giants. An amerta is generally peaceful and slow to anger, though once threatened it is relentless in its wrath. Once roused, these implacable hunters do not pause until the offending foe has been destroyed; no quarter is given to one who has slain erahthi within its sight. In combat, an amerta usually begins by flying around the foes, casting preparatory spells such as animate plants to entangle the enemy while it observes their capabilities. It then uses its breath weapon and charges into melee, using its slam attacks to further entangle foes. Mystic Oracles. Erahthi practicing occult mysticism and divination have sought the counsel of amerta for centuries to no avail. Cabals of knowledge-seeking erahthi operating within Kir-Sharaat desperately cling to the notion that the secrets of their people’s genesis and the very power the Tritarch command is contained within these enigmatic entities and go as far as to claim that by ensnaring the power of an amerta, they could control the very Tritarch themselves. An Amerta's Lair The amerta dwells in the dense hearts of the oldest forests of a given world. Thick vines and dense foliage make travel nearly impossible for creatures restricted to walking at ground level. Throughout the forest, awakened trees and shrubs dot the area, providing a network of eyes and guardians. The amerta’s liar resembles a large nest of vines and fallen trees that the creature slithers into when laying dormant. A dormant amerta is indistinguishable from a dense thicket of vines. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the amerta takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the amerta can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Foliage animates around one creature that the amerta can see within 120 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or take 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and become restrained by the foliage (escape DC 17). A tree within 120 feet that the amerta can see animates, gaining the statistics of an awakened tree, except that it does not gain a Speed. The awakened tree attacks nearby intruders to the best of its ability for 1 round, and then reverts to a normal tree. Regional Effects The region containing an amerta’s lair is protected by the same life energy that animates the creature. This creates one or more of the following effects: Plants within 1 mile of the amerta’s lair gain a limited sentience and the ability to detect creatures that are not native to the forest where the lair is, transmitting the information to the amerta through the interconnected root systems of the forest. This allows the amerta to extend its tremorsense to include the entire area within 1 mile of its lair. The amerta cannot take any other actions while using this extended range. Creatures of the beast, fey, and plant types within 1 mile of the amerta’s lair are friendly with the amerta and follow any intruders to ensure they are not damaging the forest or its normal inhabitants. These creatures will alert the amerta of any dangerous or violent intruders. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Tahoma; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-520081665 -1073717157 41 0 66047 0;}@font-face {font-family:Corbel; panose-1:2 11 5 3 2 2 4 2 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1610611985 1073783883 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatBlockTitle, li.StatBlockTitle, div.StatBlockTitle {mso-style-name:"Stat Block Title"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block Title Char"; mso-style-next:Normal; margin-top:12.0pt; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; tab-stops:right 144.0pt 216.0pt; font-size:9.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; font-variant:small-caps; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold; mso-bidi-font-weight:normal; mso-no-proof:yes;}p.AetheraStatBlockXP, li.AetheraStatBlockXP, div.AetheraStatBlockXP {mso-style-name:"Aethera Stat Block XP"; mso-style-update:auto; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-next:Normal; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Corbel",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US; font-weight:bold; mso-bidi-font-weight:normal;}span.StatBlockTitleChar {mso-style-name:"Stat Block Title Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block Title"; mso-ansi-font-size:9.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; font-variant:small-caps; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold; mso-bidi-font-weight:normal; mso-no-proof:yes;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;} @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: plant
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

