# Amiri (Level 11)

**description**: Amiri often claims to wield the power of giants and indicates her oversized sword as proof. Despite her bravado and fearlessness, she has an equally large need to prove her strength and find a place to belong. If the PCs treat her with respect, she might come to see them as her new family and eagerly protect them and their kingdom with all her considerable ferocity. Amiri relies mostly on her incredible strength and bravery. She has little patience for academics, intrigue, or indirect approaches—and abhors cowards. Often crude, always hot-tempered, and continually full of impulsive bravado, she is perfectly aware of how strong and tough she is. As a result, Amiri stands ready to prove her bravery and might. No one would be faulted for thinking the boastful, brawny, and bull-headed barbarian fears nothing—she hides her insecurities about her past and her fear of not being allowed to belong deftly. Her confidence in her own capabilities can be, at times, misplaced or overestimated, but Amiri is not foolhardy. Faced with a situation where she has to admit that brute force won’t prevail, her typical response is to seek other methods of success while continuing to hone her skills and increase her power. If such an alternative plan doesn’t work, at least she has a good excuse to rely on what she knows best: brute force. Amiri values her oversized sword, and isn’t easily persuaded to wield another weapon, although she will do so begrudgingly if tactics demand it. Traits Equipment. Greatsword +2 , hide armor +2 , explorer’s pack, javelins (4), chalk (10 pieces), a grappling hook, antitoxin, potions of healing (3), and a belt pouch containing 80 sp. Brutal Critical. Amiri rolls one additional weapon die when determining the extra damage for a critical hit with a melee attack. Danger Sense. Amiri has advantage on Dexterity saving throws against effects she can see, if she is not blinded, deafened, or incapacitated. Feral Instinct. Amiri has advantage on initiative rolls. If she is surprised at the beginning of combat and isn’t incapacitated, she can act normally on her first turn, but only if she enters a rage before doing anything else on that turn. Frenzy. Amiri can go into a frenzy when she rages. If she does so, for the duration of the rage she can make a single melee weapon attack as a bonus action on each of her turns after this one. When her rage ends, she gains one level of exhaustion. Intimidating Presence. Amiri can use her action to frighten someone with her menacing presence. She chooses one creature that she can see within 30 feet of her. If the creature can see or hear her, it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of her until the end of her next turn. On subsequent turns, she can use her action to extend the duration of this effect on the frightened creature until the end of her next turn. This effect ends if the creature ends its turn out of line of sight or more than 60 feet away from you. If the creature succeeds on its saving throw, she can’t use this feature on that creature again for 24 hours. Mindless Rage. Amiri can’t be charmed or frightened while raging. If she’s charmed or frightened when she rages, the effect is suspended for the duration of the rage. Rage (4/Day). While raging, Amiri gains +3 damage to melee attacks using Strength, has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage, and advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. She can’t cast spells or concentrate on them while raging. Her rage lasts for 1 minute. It ends early if she is knocked unconscious or if her turn ends and she hasn’t attacked a hostile creature since her last turn or taken damage since then. She can also end her rage on her turn as a bonus action. Reckless Attack. When Amiri makes her first attack on her turn, she can decide to attack recklessly. Doing so gives her advantage on melee attack rolls using Strength during this turn, but attack rolls against her have advantage until next turn. Relentless Rage. If Amiri drops to 0 hit points while she’s raging and doesn’t die outright, she can make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. If she succeeds, she drops to 1 hit point instead. Each time she uses this feature after the first, the DC increases by 5. When she finishes a short or long rest, the DC resets to 10. Unarmored Defense. When not wearing armor, Amiri’s AC equals 10 + her Dex modifier + her Con modifier. Actions Multiattack. Amiri attacks twice with her greatsword, or she makes two melee attacks with a javelin. Greatsword +2. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6+6) slashing damage. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

