# Ammit the Devourer

**description**: The fearsome ammit, also known as the "Eater of Hearts," is a terrifying demon that has a hybrid body composed of different ferocious animals. It possesses the head, upper back, and tail of a crocodile, the mane, neck, and front limbs of a lion, and the body and rear legs of a hippopotamus. Soul Devourer. The ammit is driven by its insatiable hunger for devouring the hearts of wretched mortals. By doing so, it sends the souls of its victims to the Abyss, where they are transformed into low-ranking demons. It is summoned by cultists or dispatched by demon lords to carry out this task. The ammit serves as an instrument of punishment and a means for its demon lord master to amass an army. The ammit takes great pleasure in its gruesome duty, reveling in tearing apart its victims limb from limb before consuming their hearts. Bringer of Woe. The ammit is an incredibly imposing creature to face in combat, large in size with a muscular build. Its powerful bite and claws are formidable weapons and its thick hide provides substantial protection, allowing it to withstand most attacks. The ammit is also a dangerous magic-user, possessing the ability to bestow curses, inflict diseases, and summon plagues upon its foes. In addition, the ammit can paralyze a creature with fear by its glare alone. The ammit's magical abilities, combined with its physical strength, make the demon an instrument for suffering and despair. Ammit the Devourer. The first ammit that ascended in power made the deliberate choice to retain her fearsome form and has since become a demon lord in her own right. Known as Ammit the Devourer, this formidable ammit has grown to an immense size, fueled by her ravenous appetite. Nestled within her palatial residence in the Abyss, she now spends eternity as the unwavering arbiter of judgment. Ammit the Devourer takes perverse delight in her role, gleefully passing verdicts upon mortals, devils, and demons dispatched to her presence by her allies. With a twisted satisfaction, Ammit the Devourer presides over the proceedings, relishing each opportunity to declare the accused as unworthy. As every being is brought before her faux court, the demon lord's eyes gleam with a sinister intensity. She scrupulously examines each creature's deeds, leaving no aspect of their lives unscrutinized. Unfailingly, Ammit the Devourer finds the defendants guilty, further solidifying her conviction in their inherent unworthiness. She revels in the power it wields over their fates, savoring the sadistic pleasure of passing judgment. Once the verdict is pronounced, the countenance of the demon lord turns predatory. Her gaze fixates upon the trembling soul before her, palpable anticipation radiating through the area. The faux court transforms into an arena of terror as Ammit the Devourer hunts, stalks, and ultimately devours her hapless victim. Ammit the Devourer's Lair Ammit the Devourer resides in the ruins of a deplorable peristyle palace full of interconnected cisterns and pools. Such a place is located in a desolate wasteland somewhere in the Abyss. Evil sphinxes, lamias, jackalweres, and lesser demons attend to her. Ammit the Devourer encountered in her lair has a challenge rating of 23 (50,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Ammit the Devourer can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; Ammit the Devourer can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: A cloud of sand swirls about in a 40-foot-radius sphere centered on a point Ammit the Devourer can see within 120 feet of her. The cloud spreads around corners. Each creature in the cloud must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Ammit the Devourer targets one creature she can see within 120 feet of her. A shadowy bolt streaks from Ammit the Devourer and unerringly strikes the target. The target takes 14 (4d6) necrotic damage and must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes unconscious for 1 minute. The target repeats the saving throw if it takes damage and at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Ammit the Devourer summons 1d4 + 1 mummies that appear within 60 feet of her. The mummies act as allies of Ammit the Devourer and obey her commands. The mummies act right after Ammit the Devourer on the same initiative count and fight until they're destroyed. They remain for 1 hour, until they or Ammit the Devourer dies, or until Ammit the Devourer dismisses them as a bonus action. Traits Hold Breath. Ammit the Devourer can hold her breath for 1 hour. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Ammit the Devourer fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Ammit the Devourer has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. Ammit the Devourer makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. She can use Devour, Baleful Glare, or Spellcasting in place of her Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) piercing damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 22). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and Ammit the Devourer can't use her Bite attack on another target. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Devour. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated creature or one Large or smaller creature grappled by Ammit the Devourer. Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) piercing damage plus 21 (6d6) necrotic damage. The creature is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside Ammit the Devourer, and it takes 21 (6d6) necrotic damage at the start of each of Ammit the Devourer's turns. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the creature dies and its soul is sent to the Abyss, and Ammit the Devourer regains hit points equal to the half the maximum hit points of the creature. Only a wish spell followed by a true resurrection spell can restore the creature to life. Constructs and Demons are immune to this effect. Ammit the Devourer can have only one target swallowed at a time. If Ammit the Devourer dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by her and can escape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. Baleful Glare. Ammit the Devourer targets one creature she can see within 60 feet of her. The creature must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage and is frightened of Ammit the Devourer for 1 minute. A frightened creature is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Ammit the Devourer's Baleful Glare for the next 24 hours. Teleport. Ammit the Devourer magically teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space she can see. Spellcasting. Ammit the Devourer casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 22): At will: darkness, detect magic, detect thoughts 2/day each: bestow curse, contagion, dispel magic, insect plague, locate creature 1/day each: circle of death, harm, symbol (as an action) Legendary Actions Ammit the Devourer can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Ammit the Devourer regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Claw. Ammit the Devourer makes one Claw attack. Glare (Costs 2 Actions). Ammit the Devourer uses Baleful Glare. Tail Sweep (Costs 2 Actions). Each creature in a 10-foot cube originating from Ammit the Devourer must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. Abyssal Magic (Costs 3 Actions). Ammit the Devourer uses Spellcasting or Teleport.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

