# Amphibolt

**description**: This large, frog-like amphibian has a rocky hide with rows of quartz-like crystals along its length. Green lightning crackles across its exterior as it prepares to jump. Amphibolts gained their name from their appearance, their lightning-infused jumps, and quick tongues. Arcane Origins. Amphibolts are commonly found in swamps befouled by magical runoff, tainted by planar energies, blasted with magic, or used as dumping sites for failed arcane experiments. These magical energies permeate the region's waterways, transforming ordinary frogs into dangerous predators. This transformation turns the frog's skin into dark gray amphibole with green quartz crystals growing out of it. Two prominent ridges of crystals grow from their backs, enhancing their stormy-green electric bolts. Kept by Hags. Amphibolts prey upon whatever fits in their mouths, but they do not attack hags. Inexplicably, they treat all hags with deference that borders on adoration. Hags often keep the magical monstrosities as guardians or mounts. Amphibolts are an excellent way to travel in swampy environments. Additionally, the amphibolt's omnivorous diet means they can feed on most things in the swamp or anything that wanders its way in, such as hapless adventurers. Amphibious. The amphibolt can breathe air and water. False Appearance. While the amphibolt is motionless, it is indistinguishable from a large rock formation. Lightning Leap. The amphibolt's long jump is 30 feet with or without a running start. Creatures in the amphibolt's path must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage and 7 (2d6) lightning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't knocked prone. Actions Multiattack. The amphibolt makes two Bite attacks, or it makes one Electric Tongue attack and uses Swallow. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) lightning damage. Electric Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) lightning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15). Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the amphibolt can't make an Electric Tongue attack against another target. Swallow. The amphibolt makes one Bite attack against a Medium or smaller target it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target is swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the ambphibolt, and it takes 10 (3d6) lightning damage at the start of each of the amphibolt's turns. The amphibolt can have only one target swallowed at a time. If the amphibolt takes 15 damage or more on a single turn from the swallowed creature, the amphibolt must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate the creature, which falls prone in a space within 5 feet of the amphibolt. If the amphibolt dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

