# Amyrrorgoth, Scion of the Red Wyrm

**description**: Once a powerful warlord and feared conqueror, Amyrrorgoth has spent countless centuries trapped in a magical mirror waiting for a hapless or greedy adventurer to find him and free him so that he can continue his oath of vengeance on those who have wronged him. Vengeful Past. Born as Amra to an elven mother, paramour of the great red wyrm Rivenaurlgoth, his father rejected him at birth and sent both Amra and his mother away. After years in seclusion, Amra's mother was killed by elven agents in an attempt on Amra’s life. Amra escaped, blaming both his father and the elves for his misfortunes, and returned to his father's lair where he was taken into his father’s army as a servant. Biding his time through years of private training, he eventually gained the notice of his father’s generals and rose to a position of great power as foremost among them. Having finally gained his father’s trust, Amyr staged a coup and took control of his father’s armies under the ruling name of Amyrrorgoth, turning his gaze upon the cities of the elves for the next stage of his vengeance. Greedy Downfall. Following his coup, Amyrrorgoth found many magic items hidden in his father’s hoard, among which was a deck of many things. Twice rewarded in his greed by cards that gave him victories over elven cities, his third draw from the deck locked him away inside a magical mirror. Without his leadership, his armies crumbled and dispersed, and his reign of terror was all but lost to history. Appearance. Though technically half-elven, Amyrrorgoth’s draconic blood has rendered him more draconic than even the dragonborn. Covered in tough, red scales, Amyrrorgoth also bears his father’s wings and tail and his eyes burn a fiery orange. Once in a position of immense wealth, Amyrrorgoth also wears golden, magical plate armor and wields both a flametongue and a frostbrand longsword, aided by his incredible strength and mastery of weapons. Charming Mirror. Though trapped in a magical mirror, Amyrrorgoth’s innate charm is augmented by the mirror’s properties. As a highly charismatic individual with no ability to alter the world around him beyond that which he can convince others to carry out in his stead, Amyrrorgoth primarily relies on his powerful persuasive (and deceptive) skills to control his puppet leader. However, should that fail, he is capable of casting charm person through the mirror (DC 19 Wisdom saving throw), with the mirror augmenting the spell to last indefinitely (or until he casts the spell again). Trapping Mirror. Amyrrorgoth is also not powerless to defend himself while in the mirror. Individuals who displease him, or who prove to be too dangerous to be allowed to leave with knowledge of his existence, can be trapped in the mirror with Amyrrorgoth where he may either try to kill them or use them as a hostage if possible. Up to three times per day, Amyrrorgoth can activate the mirror, forcing up to four creatures of his choice to make a DC 19 Charisma saving throw or be trapped in the mirror alongside him (along with anything they are wearing or carrying). Amyrrorgoth can release trapped creatures other than himself. Creatures trapped in the mirror don’t need to eat, breathe, or sleep, and they do not age. Plot Hooks Cult of the Great Wyrm. A dragon cult began worshiping the spirit of Rivenaurlgoth, taking his lair as a holy site. Within the lair, they discovered Amyrrorgoth’s mirror, and soon placed him as their leader, aiding him in a search for a ritual that could free him from his bonds. The party must prevent the cult from succeeding. Greed Calls. Word of an abandoned dragon hoard reaches the ears of the party, and a race to win the hoard for themselves is on as adventurers from around the world come seeking the treasures of the fallen dragon. Within the hoard, however, they find only the mirror and Amyrrorgoth promising the victorious party riches beyond imagination should they set him free (he knows the true location of the treasure vaults). At Last, Freedom. After centuries of waiting and searching, Amyrrorgoth’s servants have finally freed him. He now prepares his army for a war unlike any seen in recent history, and it will be up to the party to oppose him. Tactics Amyrrorgoth initially fights with brutal abandon, aiming to deal as much damage and inflict as many Injuries as possible. However, once reduced to half his hit points or fewer he favors use of his Guard legendary action. He takes care to avoid Injuries to his wings, and uses his Legendary Toughness feature to avoid any Injuries to Special Mobility, saving at least one use in case he needs to escape. When rendered Imperiled or reduced below 75 hit points, he uses Reposition to escape, flying away with every action he can take. Traits Weapons Mastery. Amyrrorgoth scores a critical hit with weapon attacks on a roll of 19 or 20. Additionally, he deals an extra die of weapon damage whenever he hits with a weapon attack. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Amyrrorgoth fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When Amyrrorgoth gains an Injury, he can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until he finishes a long rest. Actions Multiattack. Amyrrorgoth makes three attacks with his Flametongue and one with his Frostbrand, and uses Frightful Presence. He can replace two of these attacks with a Firebolt. Flametongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. This attack’s damage is magical. Frostbrand. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) slashing damage, plus 3 (1d6) cold damage. This attack’s damage is magical. Firebolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d10) fire damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Amyrrorgoth’s choice that is within 60 ft. of Amyrrorgoth and aware of him must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Amyrrorgoth’s Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Breath of the Half-Dragon (recharge 4-6). Amyrrorgoth breathes fire in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in the area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Legendary Actions Amyrrorgoth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Amyrrorgoth regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Fire and Frost (Costs 2 Actions). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8+5) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) fire damage and 3 (1d6) cold damage. Additionally, the target’s Injury thresholds are reduced by 5 until the end of Amyrrorgoth’s next turn. Reposition. Amyrrorgoth moves up to half his movement without provoking opportunity attacks. Guard (Costs 2 Actions). Amyrrorgoth takes a temporary defensive stance, gaining a +2 bonus to his AC and Dexterity saving throws until the start of his next turn. He also gains 10 temporary hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (half-dragon)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

