# Anahita

**description**: Anahita is most effective at range, and she avoids engaging enemies on unfavorable terrain. If she picks her arena, it has a high ground she can control; if taken unaware, she immediately seizes the highest point. She opens combat with a Blinding Arrow to disable her foes and strikes as many enemies as possible with a Piercing or Bursting Arrow. As the fight continues, she uses legendary actions to stay out of reach and weakens pressing threats with Blinding Gaze or Enervating Arrow. If she’s acting as a holy archangel, Anahita could be accompanied by devas or a planetar. If there’s no need for deception, she could have several erinyes or horned devils at her service. When it’s clear that Anahita can’t win an encounter, she attempts to teleport away and turns invisible to flee. However, if escape isn’t an option, the treacherous archangel is not above striking a deal, promising wealth and power to foes willing to turn to her side. Angelic Weapons . Anahita’s weapon attacks are magical. When Anahita hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 6d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). Divine Awareness . Anahita knows if she hears a lie. Holy Shots . Whenever Anahita fires an arrow, she can enhance it with one of the following shots. She can only use one shot per attack. Blinding Arrow . A creature hit by the arrow and all other creatures within 10 feet of the target must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bursting Arrow . Immediately after the arrow hits the target, all other creatures within 10 feet of the target take 18 (4d8) radiant damage. Enervating Arrow . A creature hit by the arrow must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or the damage dealt by its weapon attacks is halved. The target can repeat this saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Piercing Arrow . Anahita does not make an attack roll when she fires this arrow. Instead, the arrow shoots forward in a line, which is 5 feet wide and 60 feet long, before disappearing. The arrow passes harmlessly through objects, ignoring cover. Each creature in the line must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw, taking damage as if it were hit by the arrow on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Innate Spellcasting . Anahita’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 25). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect evil and good , invisibility (self only) 3/day each: blade barrier , dispel evil and good , resurrection 1/day each: commune , control weather Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If Anahita fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance . Anahita has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack . Anahita makes two attacks, each of which can be a chain whip or longbow attack. Chain Whip . Melee Weapon Attack : +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 22 (4d6 + 8) slashing damage plus 27 (6d8) radiant damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 21). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. On each of her turns while the target is restrained, Anahita can use her action to deal 22 (4d6 + 8) slashing damage plus 27 (6d8) radiant damage to the target automatically. The target is no longer restrained if Anahita uses her action to attack another target. Incandescent Longbow . Ranged Weapon Attack : +15 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit : 18 (3d6 + 8) piercing damage plus 27 (6d8) radiant damage. Healing Touch (4/Day) . Anahita touches another creature. The target magically regains 40 (8d8 + 4) hit points and is freed from any curse, disease, poison, blindness, or deafness. Legendary Actions Anahita can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Anahita regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Teleport . Anahita magically teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space she can see. Chain Whip . Anahita makes one chain whip attack. Blinding Gaze (Costs 3 Actions) . Anahita targets one creature she can see within 30 feet of her. If the target can see her, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until magic such as the lesser restoration spell removes the condition.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 14463
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 1

