# Anaximath

**description**: Anaximath was at the vanguard of Izrador’s forces when they drove south during the Last Battle and was responsible for the death of hundreds of elves during that day of slaughter. Ever since that day, he has taken up residence on the eastern outskirts of Erethor, making skirting the Sea of Pelluria to the west a dangerous endeavor. He patrols the forest constantly under cover of his screen spells, killing off elves and other travelers with impunity and feeding on the dire animals that call the forest home. Anaximath is a cruel creature who lives for nothing more than to serve the Shadow by killing his enemies, so perverted has his will become. He has two lairs, one in a moss-covered cave in the forest and the other a submerged cavern along the western shelf of the Pelluria. It is in this submerged cavern that he hides several magical treasures he recovered from the battles he fought in the war. He hopes one day to make all of Erethor his kingdom, and he is very comfortable in the forest surroundings in which he now resides…perhaps too comfortable. Anaximath is no match for the Witch Queen of Erethor, and she has been watching him through the Whisper, which ignores the illusions he uses to cover his movements. She plans to take control of the dangerous beast at the most opportune moment, and believes that she will be able to use Anaximath to decimate at least the Gamaril host of orcs led by Belark the Blackheart, as well as damage or destroy the River’s Fangs if the legates there can be caught off-guard. Dragons Aryth’s dragons are each unique creatures whose abilities are not defined by the color of their scales. Their coloring may range from silver-gray or mottled green to deep black, and have features that vary from spiked armor plating to long snouts, allowing them to be easily differentiated from one another by those who are versed in draconic lore. The dragons are ancient creatures, perhaps even immortal, who have watched the growth and trials of the peoples of Aryth for thousands of years. They rarely involve themselves in the affairs of mortals, and when they do it is on their terms. They are not driven by the riches or power offered by the rulers of nations, but have their own motivations that are seldom fathomable by less long-lived races. The most notable exception to this was the corruption of many dragons by Izrador’s whisperings at the end of the Second Age. Although the dragons that survive today are fractured and individual, it was not always so. A sovereign once ruled dragonkind, and the dragons befriended the elder fey and were content to share the world with them. The Sundering had a terrible impact on both the dragons’ minds and their civilization as a whole, however, and they were split into many different factions that warred with each other throughout much of the First Age, even as the fey were splitting into the races now found throughout Aryth. These wars ravaged much of the world’s dragon population, until finally only a few hundred remained. The Battle of the Wall at the end of the Second Age further reduced this number. Today, a handful of dragons still serve the Shadow, whether driven to his side by madness or warped by the temptation of promises too alluring to resist. Those that are sympathetic to the oppressed people of Aryth hide from the world, helping where they can but fearful of being discovered and suffering the full wrath of the dark god and his Night Kings. Traits Amphibious. Anaximath can breathe air and water. Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when Anaximath hits with it (included in the attack). Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Anaximath fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Innate Spellcasting. Anaximath’s spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16). Anaximath can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 1/day each: finger of death, fire storm 3/day each: cloudkill, insect plague 3/day each: blight, confusion, ice storm Actions Multiattack. Anaximath can use his Frightful Presence. He then makes three attacks: one with his bite and two with his claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (3d10+6) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6+6) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d8+6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away from Anaximath and knocked prone. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Anaximath’s choice that is within 120 feet of Anaximath and aware of him must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Anaximath’s Frightful Presence for one hour. Acid Breath (Recharge 5-6). Anaximath exhales a cloud of acid in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. Legendary Actions Anaximath can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options listed here. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Anaximath regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Detect. Anaximath makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. Anaximath makes a tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 actions). Anaximath beats his wings. Each creature within 10 feet of Anaximath must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (2d6+6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Anaximath can then fly up to half his flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

