# Ancient Kumiho

**description**: The kumiho is a malevolent shapeshifting fey that preys on humanoid beings. In its natural form, the kumiho appears as a magnificent-looking white-furred fox with nine long tails. It spends most of its existence, however, taking the form and living the life of an extremely attractive humanoid. This transformation isn’t perfect though, as the kumiho retains its foxlike ears and nine tails. To keep these features hidden from view, the kumiho would wear cloaks, hoods, and long dresses or skirts. Heart Eater. A kumiho is a blood-thirsty predator, driven by its insatiable need to consume hearts and livers. It prowls streets and outsides of taverns and inns, waiting for a potential target. Typically, a kumiho, in the guise of a courtesan or a vulnerable person in need, will draw the attention of someone, and using its natural gifts of deception and persuasion, will lead the prey to a place where they can be alone. Once the kumiho has isolated its target, it puts its target under its spell by using its Charm ability. The kumiho then wraps the victim with its nine tails. Once the prey is secured, the kumiho’s hands turn into vicious claws, using them to violently dig into the chest of the helpless target while it is still alive and extract its heart and liver. Once a kumiho has eaten these organs, it will not age and need not eat again for 100 days. Energy-Draining Kiss. An elder or ancient kumiho also has the ability to deliver a deep kiss that saps a victim of its life energy and even absorbs some of its recent memories, thoughts, and secrets. It is due to this that some powerful beings employ kumiho as spies and at times, assassins. An Ancient Kumiho's Lair An ancient kumiho's lair can be any place such as a cave, a magnificent mansion, or a ruined keep, as long as it is hidden, whether in plain view or not. An ancient kumiho will usually employ other fey and humanoids as guards and servants. An ancient kumiho encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 11 (7,200 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the kumiho can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the kumiho can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The kumiho targets a humanoid creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or fall into a magical slumber. If the target is charmed by the kumiho, it automatically fails its saving throw. The target is unconscious for 1 minute, until it takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The kumiho magically turns invisible until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell) or until initiative count 20 on the next round. Any equipment the kumiho wears or carries is invisible with it. The kumiho emits a bloodcurdling fox howl that is audible out to 150 feet. Each creature within 60 feet of the kumiho that can hear the kumiho must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the kumiho until the end of the kumiho's next turn. While frightened in this way, a creature has disadvantage on saving throws made against the kumiho. The kumiho targets a humanoid creature charmed by it within 30 feet. The creature must use its reaction to make a melee weapon attack against another visible creature of the kumiho's choice. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The kumiho has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the kumiho fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The kumiho makes two attacks: one with its Tails and one with its Claws (Humanoid Form) or one with its Tails and one with its Bite (Fox Form). It can use Energy-Draining Kiss in place of its Claws attack (Humanoid Form only). Claws (Humanoid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage. Tails. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 14). Bite (Fox Form Only) . Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage. Extract Heart. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid or humanoid grappled by the kumiho. Hit: The target takes 48 (8d10 + 4) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the kumiho kills the target by extracting its heart. Charm (Humanoid Form Only). One humanoid the kumiho can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 day. The charmed target obeys the kumiho's verbal or telepathic commands. If the target suffers any harm or receives a suicidal command, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. If the target successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune to this kumiho's Charm for the next 24 hours. The kumiho can have only one target charmed at a time. If it charms another, the effect on the previous target ends. Energy-Draining Kiss (Humanoid Form Only). The kumiho kisses a humanoid charmed or grappled by it or a willing humanoid. The target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 21 (3d10 + 5) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken, and the kumiho regains hit points equal to that amount. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Change Shape. The kumiho magically transforms into a Medium Humanoid or back into its true form, a Medium fox, while retaining its game statistics. The transformation into a Humanoid isn't perfect, as the kumiho still retains the ears and nine tails of its fox form. This transformation ends if the kumiho is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Legendary Actions The kumiho gains 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The kumiho regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The kumiho moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Attack. The kumiho attacks with its Claws or Tails. Charm. The kumiho uses Charm. Kiss (Costs 2 Actions). The kumiho uses Energy-Draining Kiss. Extract Heart (Costs 3 Actions). The kumiho uses Extract Heart.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

