# Ancient Abyssal Medusa

**description**: Some medusas form allegiances or bonds with powerful demons, especially if those very demons were instrumental in the medusa's accursed state. Those who are favored become the demon's consort or concubine and may transform into an abyssal medusa. Others bear the demon's offspring and produce one. Perhaps due to their affinity with serpents, greater abyssal medusas resemble mariliths, having the lower body of a giant serpent and the upper torso of a humanoid with six arms. Abyssal Creatures Abyssal creatures are typically the offspring of a demon and another species. Some creatures are transformed into abyssal versions after undergoing demonic rituals performed by powerful cultists. A very rare few are gifted abyssal power by demon lords, usually after imbibing the demon lord's blood. Demon-blooded. Abyssal creatures generally resemble their nondemonic parent, but closer inspection reveal their abhorrent nature: thick, leathery skin, oversized claws and teeth, and a more evil and depraved disposition. Greater abyssal versions show more characteristics of their demonic ancestry - horns, wings, and even additional limbs. They also demonstrate more powerful abilities and potent magic. An Abyssal Ancient Medusa's Lair An abyssal ancient medusa typically resides in the remnants of a forgotten castle, temple, or keep, either in the Material Plane or in one of the many layers of the Abyss. An abyssal ancient medusa encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 19 (22,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the abyssal medusa can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the abyssal medusa can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The abyssal medusa causes up to three petrified statues to animate ( animated stone statue , Monster Manual Expanded ). These Constructs obey the abyssal medusa's commands. The abyssal medusa's snake hair hisses aloud menacingly. Each creature within 30 feet of the abyssal medusa and can hear it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the abyssal medusa for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this lair effect for the next 24 hours. The abyssal medusa casts bestow curse , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19). The abyssal medusa doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. It lasts until the abyssal medusa uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the abyssal medusa dies. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the abyssal medusa fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The abyssal medusa has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Petrifying Gaze. When a creature that can see the abyssal medusa's eyes starts its turn within 30 feet of the abyssal medusa, the abyssal medusa can force it to make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw if the abyssal medusa isn't incapacitated and can see the creature. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is instantly petrified. Otherwise, a creature that fails the save begins to turn to stone and is restrained. The restrained creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn, becoming petrified on a failure or ending the effect on a success. The petrification lasts until the creature is freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can't see the abyssal medusa until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at the abyssal medusa in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. If the abyssal medusa sees itself reflected on a polished surface within 30 feet of it and in an area of bright light, the abyssal medusa is, due to its curse, affected by its own gaze. Reactive. The abyssal medusa can take one reaction on every turn in a combat. Actions Multiattack. The abyssal medusa makes six Longsword attacks and one Snake Hair or Tail attack. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) force damage. Snake Hair. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 21 (6d6) poison damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, the abyssal medusa can automatically hit the target with its Tail, and the abyssal medusa can’t make Tail attacks against other targets. Teleport. The abyssal medusa magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The abyssal medusa casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): At will: charm person, detect magic, eldritch blast (3 beams) 3/day each: dispel magic, major image, mirror image 1/day each: antipathy/sympathy, cloudkill Reactions Parry. The abyssal medusa adds 5 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the abyssal medusa must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. Legendary Actions The abyssal medusa can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The abyssal medusa regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Longsword. The abyssal medusa makes one Longsword attack. Tail (Costs 2 Actions). The abyssal medusa makes one Tail attack. Petrify (Costs 2 Actions). The abyssal medusa forces a creature grappled by it to see the abyssal medusa's eyes, triggering Petrifying Gaze. Abyssal Magic (Costs 3 Actions). The abyssal medusa uses Spellcasting or Teleport.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

