# Ancient Desert Drake

**description**: Desert drakes are wingless dragons with thick, golden-brown hides that resemble overlapping armor plates. They have large horns on their snouts similar to a blue dragon's and long tails that end with bony clubs. Desert drakes, as their name implies, are usually encountered in barren wastelands, dust bowls, and dry badlands. Sand Lurkers. Desert drakes are ambush hunters. They use their specialized claws and tail to burrow and bury themselves deep into the sand and patiently wait until they sense the vibration caused by the movement of approaching prey. Upon reaching striking distance, the desert drakes explode from the sand, catch their targets by surprise, and bring them down quickly with savage attacks. Desert drakes typically hunt large reptiles and mammals such as camels, humanoids, and cattle. They will track and follow caravans for days waiting for an opportunity to snatch prey. Sand Breath. Desert drakes constantly swallow small amounts of sand which they store within their acidic bellies. When confronted with numerous foes or a dangerous opponent, desert drakes can disgorge the stored and now highly corrosive sand at their targets' eyes, burning and blinding them at the same time. Tail Clubbing. Desert drakes tend to be solitary and very territorial. During mating season, desert drakes converge and vie for the right to be the only male to mate with the females. The largest males challenge each other and fight using only their powerful tail clubs, taking turns smashing each other's bodies. Rarely do these matches end in death, but broken limbs and ribcages are common. An Ancient Desert Drake's Lair Ancient desert drakes build their lairs in windswept desert caves and large underground tunnels or buried ruins deep beneath sandy wastelands and in the Elemental Plane of Earth. The challenge rating of an ancient desert drake increases to 13 (10,000 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the drake takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the drake can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The drake targets up to 4 creatures it can see within 120 feet of it. Sections of the ceiling collapses above each target. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The drake targets a 10-foot cube of ground within 60 feet of it. The targeted area turns into quicksand and is difficult terrain. Each creature that starts its turn in the area or enters it for the first time must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature sinks into the quicksand, is restrained, and can't breathe. It or another creature can use an action to end the restrained condition by pulling itself or the sunken creature from the quicksand with a successful DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check. On a success, the creature is no longer restrained and escapes the quicksand using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. A restrained creature is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the quicksand and is no longer restrained when the effect ends. The quicksands last for 1 minute, until the half-dragon uses this lair action again, or until the half-dragon dies or is incapacitated. The drake creates a wall of sand on a solid surface it can see within 120 feet of it. The wall can be up to 60 feet long, 20 feet high, and 2 foot thick. When the wall appears, each creature is pushed 5 feet out of the wall’s space, appearing on whichever side of the wall it wants. Each 10-foot section of the wall has AC 5, 10 hit points, resistant to piercing and slashing damage, and immunity to necrotic, poison, and psychic damage. The wall disappears when the drake uses this lair action again or when the drake dies. The wall of sand lasts for 1 minute or until the drake uses this lair action again. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Hold Breath. The drake can hold its breath for 30 minutes or until it uses its Acid Breath. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drake fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Sand Camouflage. The drake has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in sandy terrain. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d10 + 7) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage and if the target is Huge or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the creature fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it is also stunned until the end of the drake's next turn. Sand Breath (Recharge 6). The drake exhales corrosive sand in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 40 (9d8) acid damage and is blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw with advantage on the roll at the end of each of its turns, ending the blinded effect on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. Reactions Tail Swipe. When an enemy the drake can see moves within 15 feet of the drake, the drake can make one Tail attack against that enemy. Legendary Actions The drake can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drake regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The drake makes a Claw attack. Frightful Gaze. The drake targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the drake's Frightful Gaze for the next 24 hours. Tail Sweep (Costs 2 Actions). Each creature within 15 feet of the drake must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 12 (1d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

