# Ancient Najahydra

**description**: The ancestors of the great serpentine races experimented with many of the primordial creatures to create loyal abominations that would strengthen their armies. It is said that they magically injected a clutch of hydra eggs with the blood of serpents. From these eggs came the very first najahydras. Many-Headed Serpent. The najahydra appears as an immense 20-to-30-foot long king cobra with five heads. The color of its scales ranges from blue, yellow, olive green, brown, to black. Its back is typically highlighted by yellowish or whitish chevrons, and its underbelly may display colored bars. Just like all hydras, the najahydra can regrow severed heads. One must apply fire to the najahydra's neck stump to stop a severed head from regenerating. The heads possess an astonishing level of autonomy, moving independently as they survey the environment, vigilant for any potential threat or succulent prey. The creature's eyes, piercing and cunning, showcase its heightened senses and predatory instincts. Venom Spitter. The najahydra's heads can deliver a deadly bite. Its fangs inject a highly toxic venom that can instantly cause respiratory and cardiac arrest. Worse still, it can spit this venom at its prey. Each of the najahydra's heads can squeeze its jaw muscles, causing the glands to squirt out through forward-facing orifices near the tip of its fangs. The spat venom instantly breaks down organic tissue it lands on, and can also cause blindness if it hits the target's eyes. Jungle Hunters. Najahydras live mainly in warm rain forests, jungles, and mangrove swamps. Behaving as an apex predator, the najahydra is both solitary and highly territorial. It claims a vast domain within its lush habitat, where it skillfully navigates the tangled vegetation, utilizing its sinuous body to move with deceptive agility. With an unmatched speed and precision, the Najahydra silently stalks its victims, relying on stealth and patience before unleashing its deadly assault. The color of their scales tend to match their surroundings, allowing them to blend easily and remain hidden if they don't move. Najahydras feed mainly on giant snakes, reptiles, and mammals. It hunts by tracking the odor trails of its prey. Older Najahydras. There are older, larger, and more dangerous specimens of najahydras. These monsters can reach lengths of up to 80 feet. They can constrict their prey while ancient ones can even breathe out poisonous gas. Such creatures are revered and even worshipped as gods by reptilian races. An Ancient Najahydra's Lair Underground caverns, caves, and large ruined buildings are the usual lairs of an ancient najahydras. An ancient najahydra encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 17 (18,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the najahydra can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the najahydra can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The najahydra's heads emit a growling hiss. Each creature within 60 feet of the najahydra that can hear the najahydra must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the najahydra until the end of the najahydra's next turn. The najahydra targets as many visible creatures as it has heads within 60 feet of it. The najahydra uses Spit Poison on each target. The najahydra regains one severed head. If all of its heads are intact, it instead regains 10 hit points. Traits Keen Smell. The najahydra has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Hold Breath. The najahydra can hold its breath for 1 hour. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the najahydra fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Multiple Heads. The najahydra has five heads. While it has more than one head, the najahydra has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Whenever the najahydra takes 30 or more damage in a single turn, one of its heads dies. If all its heads die, the najahydra dies. At the end of its turn, it grows two heads for each of its heads that died since its last turn, unless it has taken fire damage since its last turn. The najahydra regains 10 hit points for each head regrown in this way. Reactive Heads. For each head the najahydra has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Wakeful. While the najahydra sleeps, at least one of its heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The najahydra uses Constrict and makes as many Bite attacks as it has heads. It can replace any number of Bite attacks with Spit Poison. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) poison damage. Spit Poison. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one creature. Hit: 5 (1d10) poison damage and the target must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned until the najahydra's next turn. The poisoned creature is blind. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Huge or smaller target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the najahydra can't use Constrict on another target. Poison Breath (Recharge 5–6). The najahydra’s heads exhale a single breath of poisonous gas in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) poison damage for each head the najahydra has on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The najahydra can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The najahydra regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Slither. The najahydra moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Bite. The najahydra makes a Bite attack. Constrict . The najahydra uses Constrict.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

