# Ancient Forest Drake

**description**: Forest drakes are feral and wingless cousins of green dragons, sharing their cruelty and cunning but none of their intelligence. Forest drakes sport large antler-like horns on their heads and fur running down their spines. As their name suggests, forest drakes prowl timberlands, thickets, and taigas. Cunning Predators. Forest drakes are carnivorous and usually prey on deer, pigs, and primates, but they prefer elves, halflings, and humans and will go out of their way to hunt and track them if they catch their scent. Forest drakes are known to mimic elk and moose, teasing hunters with glimpses of their antlers, drawing them closer to set them for an ambush. Hallucinogenic Breath. Forest drakes supplement their meat diet with wild, poisonous mushrooms. The ingested fungi's toxins do not harm the forest drakes. Instead, it alters their poisonous breath, making it more potent by having a hallucinogenic effect on any who unfortunately inhales the poison. Pack Hunters. Forest drakes typically form packs composed of one old male bull, several females, and a few young males. These dangerous packs will usually hunt deer herds and even attack small settlements at the edge of their territories. During the mating season, the old male drives out all the males from the pack to establish its harem. One or two bulls might challenge him for the harem, and these fights usually end with the challenger maimed or killed. An Ancient Forest Drake's Lair Forest drakes build their lairs in dismal groves of twisted trees and corrupted vegetation. The challenge rating of a legendary forest drake increases to 14 (11,500 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the drake takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the drake can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Grasping prickly roots and thorny vines sprout from the ground and other plants in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within the lair of the drake. Each creature other than the drake in that area must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling vegetation for 1 minute. While restrained, a creature takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 15 Strength check, escaping from the grasping vegetation on a success. The vegetation can also be destroyed to end the effect. Each grasping vegetation has AC 10, 15 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, poison, and psychic damage. The grasping vegetation lasts until the drake uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the drake dies. The drake casts stinking cloud , requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15). It lasts until the drake uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the drake dies. The drake moves up to half its speed and magically steps into one living tree within its reach and emerges from a second living tree within 60 feet of the first tree, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second tree. Both trees must be Large or bigger and within the lair of the drake. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Charge. If the drake moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 14 (4d6) damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it is also stunned until the end of the drake's next turn. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drake fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite or Ram attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) slashing damage. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Poison Breath (Recharge 6). The drake exhales poison in a 60-foot cube. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The drake doesn't need to concentrate to maintain the effect. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Bonus Actions Rear Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one prone target. Hit: 9 (2d8) slashing damage. Legendary Actions The drake can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drake regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tail. The drake makes a Tail attack. Frightful Gaze. The drake targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the drake's Frightful Gaze for the next 24 hours. Slashing Ram (Costs 3 Actions). The drake moves up to 50 feet in a straight line without provoking opportunity attacks and can move through the space of a Huge or smaller creature. Each time it enters a creature’s space during this move, that creature must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and 9 (2d8) slashing damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature is pushed to the nearest space out of the drake's path. If a prone creature remains in the drake's space, it is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the drake.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

