# Ancient Half-Blue Dragon Bulette

**description**: The half-blue dragon bulette is a nightmarish abomination. It resembles a bulette at first glance, but closer examination reveals blue scales covering its tough, armor-like exterior. It sports the wings and tail of a blue dragon, including the signature oversized horn in the middle of its large forehead and rows of bony spikes that line its brow and jaws. Lightning arcs and sizzles within its massive maw. Vicious Ravager. The half-blue dragon bulette is an extraordinary hunter that is fearless, highly territorial, and insatiable. It will attack and slay anything that moves, even other dragons, within its enormous territory. It will terrorize caravans and settlements within hundreds of miles of its lair, not stopping until it has devoured everything it finds edible. Burrowing Predator. The half-blue dragon bulette has wings that enable it to fly, but it spends most of its time underground, burrowing through the desert sand in search of prey to ambush. Once it senses movement on the surface, the half-blue dragon bulette uses its powerful limbs and wings to propel itself upward, exploding from the ground in a shower of sand and stone. The action is so quick and violent that the prey would not even realize what attacked it. Black Widow. The half-blue dragon bulette is always a solitary creature. The only exception is when it enters its reproductive cycle. Its scent will attract the attention of male bulettes. Over this lengthy period, the half-blue dragon bulette will violently mate with numerous males. Those that survive the sexual encounter and are not able to escape are viciously slain and eaten. Frightful Roar. Adult and older versions of the half-blue dragon bulette are extremely rare. Those that were very lucky to have survived an encounter with it have heard its blood-chilling roar from hundreds of feet away. A Half-Blue Dragon Bulette's Lair The half-blue dragon bulette lair is a system of tunnels and caves deep beneath vast desert wastes. The challenge rating of a half-blue dragon bulette increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the half-dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the half-dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The half-dragon chooses a point on the ground it can see within its lair. A violent sand storm howls down in a 20-foot-radius, 30-foot-high cylinder centered on that point. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage and is blinded until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. The half-dragon chooses a point it can see within its lair. A bolt of lightning flashes down to that point from the ceiling directly above it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (3d6) lightning damage and is incapacitated until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated. The half-dragon chooses up to three points on the ground that it can see within its lair. Sand and dirt form into grasping tendrils that extend from the ground and snare creatures and objects in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point. For the duration of the effect, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain. Each creature other than the half-dragon that starts its turn standing in those areas must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained until initiative count 20 on the next round. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the half-dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Standing Leap. The half-dragon's long jump is up to 30 feet and its high jump is up to 15 feet, with or without a running start. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. It can use Frightful Roar in place of its Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 46 (6d12 + 7) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) lightning damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) slashing damage. Deadly Leap. If the half-dragon jumps at least 15 feet as part of its movement, it can then use this action to land on its feet in a space that contains one or more other creatures. Each of those creatures must succeed on a DC 21 Strength or Dexterity saving throw (target's choice) or be knocked prone and take 24 (5d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 24 (5d6 + 7) slashing damage. On a successful save, the creature takes only half the damage, isn't knocked prone, and is pushed 5 feet out of the half-dragon's space into an unoccupied space of the creature's choice. If no unoccupied space is within range, the creature instead falls prone in the half-dragon's space. Frightful Roar. The half-dragon emits a dreadful roar audible out to 300 feet. Each creature within 120 feet of the half-dragon and able to hear the roar must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the half-dragon's Frightful Roar for the next 24 hours. Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales lightning in a 120-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 60 (11d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The half-dragon can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The half-dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The half-dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Claw. The half-dragon makes a Claw attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 15 feet of the half-dragon must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The half-dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

