# Ancient Elder Brain

**description**: An ancient elder brain has lived for centuries and has absorbed thousands of mind flayer brains, making it even more powerful. It has increased its spellcasting powers and can lash out with two tentacles at a time during combat. It is never without a few ulitharids near its brine pool that serve as its guardians. Traits Creature Sense. The elder brain is aware of the presence of creatures within 10 miles of it that have an Intelligence score of 4 or higher. It knows the distance and direction to each creature, as well as each creature's Intelligence score, but can't sense anything else about it. A creature protected by a mind blank spell, a nondetection spell, or similar magic can't be perceived in this manner. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the elder brain fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The elder brain has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Telepathic Hub. The elder brain can use its telepathy to initiate and maintain telepathic conversations with up to ten creatures at a time. The elder brain can let those creatures telepathically hear each other while connected in this way. Actions Multiattack. The elder brain makes two Tentacle attacks. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 40 ft., one creature. Hit: 26 (5d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 16) and takes 15 (2d8 + 6) psychic damage at the start of each of its turns until the grapple ends. The elder brain can have up to four targets grappled at a time. Mind Blast (Recharge 5–6). Creatures of the elder brain’s choice within 90 feet of it must succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw or take 44 (7d10 + 6) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting (Psionics). The elder brain casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: detect thoughts, levitate, shield 3/day each: dominate monster, telekinesis 1/day each: plane shift, psychic scream Psychic Link. The elder brain targets one incapacitated creature it can perceive with its Creature Sense trait and establishes a psychic link with that creature. Until the psychic link ends, the elder brain can perceive everything the target senses. The target becomes aware that something is linked to its mind once it is no longer incapacitated, and the elder brain can terminate the link at any time (no action required). The target can use an action on its turn to attempt to break the psychic link, doing so with a successful DC 20 Charisma saving throw. On a successful save, the target takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage. The psychic link also ends if the target and the elder brain are more than 5 miles apart, with no consequences to the target. The elder brain can form psychic links with up to ten creatures at a time. Sense Thoughts. The elder brain targets a creature with which it has a psychic link. The elder brain gains insight into the target's reasoning, its emotional state, and thoughts that loom large in its mind (including things the target worries about, loves, or hates}. The elder brain can also make a Charisma (Deception) check with advantage to deceive the target's mind into thinking it believes one idea or feels a particular emotion. The target contests this attempt with a Wisdom (Insight} check. If the elder brain succeeds, the mind believes the deception for 1 hour or until evidence of the lie is presented to the target. Legendary Actions The elder brain can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The elder brain regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tentacle. The elder brain makes one Tentacle attack. Break Concentration. The elder brain targets a creature within 120 feet of it with which it has a psychic link. The elder brain breaks the creature's concentration on a spell it has cast. The creature also takes 1d6 psychic damage per level of the spell. Psychic Pulse. The elder brain targets a creature within 120 feet of it with which it has a psychic link. Enemies of the elder brain within 10 feet of that creature take 14 (4d6) psychic damage. Sever Psychic Link. The elder brain targets a creature within 120 feet of it with which it has a psychic link. The elder brain ends the link, causing the creature to have disadvantage on all ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws until the end of the creature's next turn. Cast Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The elder brain uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

