# Ancient Ice Drake

**description**: The ice drake is a wingless draconic creature that bears a slight resemblance to a white dragon. Thick, jagged scales that look like icy spikes protrude from its back, shoulders, and limbs, giving it a formidable look. Its eyes gleam an icy white while bluish frost emanates from its inner maw. Arctic Denizen. An ice drake is a natural denizen of the freezing regions where the Elemental Plane of Air and Water overlap. However, it can also be encountered in the coldest places of the Material Plane. Not only is the ice drake adapted for its frigid habitat, it also plays an important role within this ecosystem. While its diet consists mostly of fish, seals, walruses and penguins, it also provides some balance to the food chain by preying on larger mammals such as polar bears, reindeer, and humanoids who would otherwise overpopulate their native range. An ice drake is typically a solitary hunter but young ones can be found in small groups when food sources are plentiful, where they will hunt cooperatively to take down larger prey. Ambush Predator. An ice drake prefers to wait until its prey is within striking distance. It takes advantage of its ability to blend with its icy surroundings before bursting from its hiding place and attacking with its terrible bite and claws with lightning speed. Those who find themselves within very close proximity to the ice drake are suddenly overwhelmed by an intense, piercing cold. A single bite from an ice drake can freeze flesh instantly, which is usually enough to bring down, incapacitate or slow down its target. But when facing stronger or multiple targets, the ice drake can breathe a line of freezing icicles. This powerful breath can encase targets in ice within moments, effectively trapping them and leaving them vulnerable to the ice drake. Young and adult ice drakes are usually captured and trained to become guards by frost giants and white dragons. An Ancient Ice Drake's Lair An ancient ice drake resides in icy caverns and glacial ravines found within the most inhospitable and remote icy environments, such as frozen tundras, snow-capped mountains, and arctic regions. An ancient ice drake encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 13 (10,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the drake can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the drake can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The drake casts sleet storm , requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14). The drake doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. It lasts until the drake uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the drake dies. Sheets of ice and snow within 120 feet of the drake burst outward. Any creature on the ground within 15 feet of snow and ice must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) cold damage and is blinded until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded. The drake emits a terrifying bellow. Each creature within 60 feet of the drake that can hear the drake must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake until initiative count 20 on the next round. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Cold Aura. Any creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the drake takes 5 (1d10) cold damage and can't use reactions until the start of its next turn. Frost Camouflage. The drake has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in icy and snowy terrain. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drake fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) cold damage, and the target's speed is reduced to 10 feet until the end of the drake's next turn. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Icy Breath (Recharge 5–6). The drake exhales a blast of freezing icicles in a 60-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 45 (10d8) cold damage and is restrained by ice for 1 minute. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 17 Strength check, breaking the ice on a success. The ice can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 14; hp 35; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to cold, poison, and psychic damage). On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't restrained by ice. Legendary Actions The drake can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drake regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The drake makes a Claw attack. Frightful Gaze. The drake targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the drake's Frightful Gaze for the next 24 hours. Tail Sweep (Costs 2 Actions). Each creature within 10 feet of the drake must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

