# Ancient Haghead Creeper

**description**: When a hag dies a violent death and its body is left to rot, its malignant essence spreads around its corpse and befouls everything it touches. In very rare instances, the hag's vile ichor seeps into a critter's egg and corrupts the embryo, mutating it. For some reason, perhaps due to the hag's potent magic or some form of a curse, the embryo gestates into a hideous and loathsome horror called a haghead creeper. Two-headed Abomination. A haghead creeper is a giant reptilian monstrosity that resembles a cross between a frog and a salamander. What makes the creature look even more grotesque is its second head, that of the hag's, growing from the top of the reptilian's head. Depraved Hunter. While the haghead creeper retains some of its former life's memories, it is no longer as intelligent. Driven by cruelty, hate, and hunger, the creature lives the rest of its wretched life lurking in foul marshes, swamps, and shores, waiting for hapless victims to torment, kill, and devour. An Ancient Haghead Creeper's Lair A haghead creeper builds its lair within dismal, twisted mangroves and flooded underground caves. The challenge rating of an ancient haghead creeper increases to 11 (7,200 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the haghead creeper takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the haghead creeper can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The haghead creeper targets up to 3 points on the ground within its lair. The haghead creeper need not have line on sight on each point. Grasping roots and vines sprout from the ground and other plants in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on each point. Each creature other than the haghead creeper in that area must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling vegetation for 1 minute. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 16 Strength check, escaping from the grasping vegetation on a success. The vegetation can also be destroyed to end the effect. Each grasping vegetation has AC 10, 15 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, poison, and psychic damage. The grasping vegetation lasts until the haghead creeper uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the haghead creeper dies. The haghead creeper emits large amounts of putrid gas. Each creature within a 20-foot-cube originating from the haghead creeper must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated for 1 minute. An incapacitated creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The haghead creeper emits a terrible croak that can be heard out to a range of 120 feet. Each creature within 60 feet of the haghead creeper must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the haghead creeper until the end of the haghead creeper's next turn. Traits Amphibious. The haghead creeper can breathe air and water. Horrific Appearance. Any humanoid that starts its turn within 30 feet of the haghead creeper and can see the haghead creeper must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the haghead creeper is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the haghead creeper's Horrific Appearance for the next 24 hours. Unless the target is surprised, the target can avert its eyes and avoid making the initial saving throw. Until the start of its next turn, a creature that averts its eyes has disadvantage on attack rolls against the haghead creeper. Actions Multiattack. The haghead creeper uses Death Glare or Shriek. It then makes one Bite or Swallow attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage and if the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the haghead creeper can't use its Bite attack against other targets. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Death Glare. The haghead creeper targets one frightened creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the haghead creeper, it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or drop to 0 hit points. Swallow. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Large or smaller creature grappled by the haghead creeper. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage. The creature is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the haghead creeper, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the haghead creeper's turns. The haghead creeper can have only one Large target or two Medium or smaller targets swallowed at a time. If the haghead creeper dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 15 feet of movement, exiting prone. Shriek (Recharge 5–6). The haghead creeper emits a blood-curdling shriek than can be heard out to a range of 120 feet. Each creature within 30 feet of the haghead creeper must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 31 (7d8) psychic damage and is stunned until the end of the haghead creeper's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't stunned. Legendary Actions The haghead creeper can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The haghead creeper regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Creep. The haghead creeper moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks Claw. The haghead creeper makes a Claw attack. Glare. The haghead creeper uses Death Glare. Maw (Costs 2 Actions). The haghead creeper makes a Bite or Swallow attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

