# Ancient Swamp Drake

**description**: A swamp drake appears as wingless dragon with alligator-like features. It has a wide, U-shaped snout, tail, and scute-covered hide of an alligator and the head, horns, and limbs of a black dragon. Swamp drakes usually live in the same places as alligators and crocodiles do. Underwater Lurker. Swamp drakes are amphibious and spend most of their time in or near bodies of fresh or brackish water. They silently wait underneath the water's surface for prey to approach the pool’s edge. They typically hunt fish, large reptiles, and large mammals such as deer, horse, humanoids, and cattle. Swamp drakes will not hesitate to leave the water to prowl and hunt nearby prey. Death Roll. Swamp drakes often attack by surprise, capturing prey with their jaws before dragging it back into the water. Larger swamp drakes knock unsuspecting prey into the water with their long, powerful tails. Once their target is in the water and safely secured in their jaws, the swamp drakes perform a death roll – a rapid, rotating maneuver that enables the drakes to tear and dismember their prey. Acidic Breath. Larger, more powerful quarries are usually drowned or ganged up by other swamp drakes. If the prey is too large or difficult to devour, it is dragged into the swamp drakes' lair. There the swamp drakes break down the carcass with its acidic breath until it is soft enough to be shredded and swallowed. Nocturnal Creatures. During daytime, swamp drakes often lie at the water’s edge to sun themselves. They are active mostly at night, retreating back to the water at sundown to begin their wait for prey anew. Young swamp drakes usually form gangs and congregate near areas where large numbers of animals cross the water. Larger drakes live solitary lives and establish their own territories, only allowing swamp drakes of the opposite sex to enter their domain during mating season. Black dragons and swamp giants capture and enslave young swamp drakes, using them as lair guardians. An Ancient Swamp Drake's Lair An ancient swamp drake makes its lair in large underground burrows, dens, and chambers that are above the waterline and are usually reachable only via underwater tunnels. An ancient swamp drake encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 13 (10,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the drake can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the drake can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Pools of water within 120 feet of the drake rush outward like a tidal wave. Any creature on the ground within 15 feet of such a pool must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and pulled up to 15 feet into the water. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone or pulled. The drake casts stinking cloud , requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14). It lasts until the drake uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the drake dies. The drake emits a terrifying bellow. Each creature within 60 feet of the drake that can hear the drake must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake until the end of the drake's next turn. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Amphibious. The drake can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drake fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) acid damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the drake can't use its Bite attack on another target. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Death Roll (Recharge 5–6). If the drake isn't restrained, the drake forces a Huge or smaller creature grappled by it to make a DC 18 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 71 (12d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) acid damage and is knocked prone and stunned until the end of the drake's next turn. A creature reduced to 0 hit points by this damage has one of its limbs severed. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone or stunned. Acid Breath (Recharge 6). The drake exhales acid vapors in a 60-foot cube originating from the drake. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature being grappled by the drake has disadvantage on the saving throw. Legendary Actions The drake can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drake regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The drake makes a Claw attack. Frightful Gaze. The drake targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the drake's Frightful Gaze for the next 24 hours. Tail Sweep (Costs 2 Actions). Each creature within 10 feet of the drake must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

