# Ancient Infernal Androsphinx

**description**: An infernal sphinx presents a twisted and corrupted version of the exalted creature. Unless it masks itself, the infernal sphinx will exude an aura of unholy darkness and malevolence. Its fur shows a hint of deep crimson and its eyes blaze with a fiery glow. Callous Trickster. Instead of the usual gruffness and occasional insults, the infernal sphinx can now utilize honeyed words and false flattery, luring unsuspecting victims into its sinister schemes. Unlike its benevolent counterpart, the infernal sphinx has no qualms about lying and distorting the truth. It revels in deception, using the preconceived notions of its alternate being and foul magic to toy with the minds and emotions of its victims. Master Manipulator. The infernal sphinx's once noble heart has been perverted, replaced by a desire for power and control. Motivated by a thirst for dominance and the accumulation of souls and forbidden knowledge, the infernal sphinx seeks to corrupt and exploit those who dare to approach it. It uses its cunning intellect and vast knowledge to devise treacherous tests and riddles, designed not to judge worthiness but to further its diabolical goals or to ensure the demise of those who fall into its clutches. Ruthless Tyrant. When it reveals its true self, the infernal sphinx's behaviors are marked by cruelty, sadism, and a penchant for inflicting suffering. It derives pleasure from the destruction of those who fail its tests, relishing in their anguish and demise. The infernal sphinx uses fear and intimidation as tools, ruling through fear and ensuring the subjugation of any who dare to oppose it. An Infernal Ancient Androsphinx's Lair An infernal ancient androsphinx keeps its eternal watch in the ruins of long-forgotten tombs, temples, and vaults, often found in extraplanar realms. It guards the forbidden secrets and wondrous treasures of its archdevil master. A infernal ancient androsphinx encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 23 (50,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the infernal sphinx can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the infernal sphinx can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The infernal sphinx casts sacred flame three times, using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (+13 to hit with spell attacks). The infernal sphinx casts contagion at a visible creature within 60 feet of it, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21). The infernal sphinx summons 1 barbed devil or 2 bearded devils . A summoned devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the infernal sphinx and acts as an ally of the infernal sphinx. It remains for an hour, until it or the infernal sphinx dies, or until the infernal sphinx dismisses it as an action. The infernal sphinx regains 35 hit points and ends blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting it. Infernal Creatures Infernal creatures are diabolical fiends bearing the taint of devil's blood. Most are born naturally with a devil lineage, but a few, whether willingly or by coersion, entered into a contract with an arch devil. Infernals usually have dark or crimson skins, and some sport short horns on their foreheads. A rare few exude an aura of fire, while others can breath hellfire. Devious Tricksters. Deceptive and highly manipulative, these fiendish entities possess a propensity for trickery and subterfuge, often using disguises or the persona of their normally good-aligned kin. Infernals navigate the realms with a calculated and elusive presence, adept at ensnaring the unsuspecting in their web of deceit. Collecting souls as their ultimate goal, these creatures embody the very essence of malevolence and treachery. Traits Inscrutable. The infernal sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the infernal sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the infernal sphinx fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The infernal sphinx has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The infernal sphinx makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) force damage plus 5 (1d10) fire damage and the target has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until the end of the infernal sphinx's next turn. Scorching Gaze. Unless the infernal sphinx is blinded, it emits a 120-foot-long, 5-foot-wide line of fire from its eyes. Each creature in that line must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Roar (3/Day). The infernal sphinx emits a magical roar. Each time it roars before finishing a long rest, the roar is louder and the effect is different, as detailed below. Each creature within 500 feet of the infernal sphinx and able to hear the roar must make a saving throw. First Roar. Each creature that fails a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw is deafened and frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature is paralyzed and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Second Roar. Each creature makes a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 44 (8d10) force damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone. Third Roar. Each creature makes a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is reduced to 0 hit points. On a successful save, the creature takes 33 (6d10) force damage. Teleport. The infernal sphinx magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The infernal sphinx casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21, +13 to hit with spell attacks): At will: guidance, sacred flame (4d8), thaumaturgy 3/day each: banishment, command, dispel magic, flame strike, hold person 1/day each: blade barrier, earthquake, fire storm Legendary Actions The infernal sphinx can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The infernal sphinx regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The infernal sphinx makes one Claw attack. Infernal Magic (Costs 2 Actions). The infernal sphinx uses Scorching Gaze, Spellcasting, or Teleport. Slashing Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The infernal sphinx moves up to its walking speed and makes one Claw attack at each creature within 5 feet of it during its movement.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

