# Ancient Infernal Couatl

**description**: Once noble and benevolent, the infernal couatl has succumbed to the allure of darkness and is now a sinister perversion of the couatl's original purpose. Often under the guise of being a divine guardian, the infernal couatl exploits and corrupts the innocent for its own selfish gains. With a talent for twisting truths and manipulating perceptions, the infernal couatl derives satisfaction from watching its victims descend into darkness, all while skillfully concealing its own malevolent nature. Older infernal couatls see themselves as gods, exhibiting apocalyptic powers and exerting control over civilizations. An Infernal Ancient Couatl's Lair An infernal ancient couatl spends most of its time brooding and scheming in temples, shrines, and forgotten ruins located in perilous mountaintops, seething volcanoes, gloomy forests, and treacherous jungles. A infernal ancient couatl encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 20 (25,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the infernal couatl can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the infernal couatl can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The infernal couatl casts sacred flame (4d8) three times, using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (+14 to hit with spell attacks). The infernal couatl casts mirror image , using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. It gains up to six illusory duplicates instead of just three each time it uses this lair action. The infernal couatl casts mislead , using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. The infernal couatl doesn’t need to concentrate on the spell, which lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. The infernal couatl casts wall of fire , using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20). The infernal couatl doesn’t need to concentrate on the spell, which lasts until the infernal couatl uses this lair action again, the infernal couatl dies or is incapacitated, or until the infernal couatl dismisses it as a bonus action. The infernal couatl summons 1 barbed devil or 2 bearded devils . A summoned devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the infernal couatl and acts as an ally of the infernal couatl. It remains for an hour, until it or the infernal couatl dies, or until the infernal couatl dismisses it as an action. The infernal couatl regains 35 hit points and ends blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting it. Infernal Creatures Infernal creatures are diabolical fiends bearing the taint of devil's blood. Most are born naturally with a devil lineage, but a few, whether willingly or by coersion, entered into a contract with an arch devil. Infernals usually have dark or crimson skins, and some sport short horns on their foreheads. A rare few exude an aura of fire, while others can breath hellfire. Devious Tricksters. Deceptive and highly manipulative, these fiendish entities possess a propensity for trickery and subterfuge, often using disguises or the persona of their normally good-aligned kin. Infernals navigate the realms with a calculated and elusive presence, adept at ensnaring the unsuspecting in their web of deceit. Collecting souls as their ultimate goal, these creatures embody the very essence of malevolence and treachery. Traits Infernal Fire Aura. At the start of each of the infernal couatl’s turns, each creature within 10 feet of it takes 11 (2d10) fire damage, and flammable objects in the aura that aren’t being worn or carried ignite. A creature that touches the infernal couatl or hits it with a melee attack while within 10 feet of it takes 11 (2d10) fire damage. In addition, a creature that takes fire damage must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the infernal couatl fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The infernal couatl has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The infernal couatl's weapon attacks are magical. Shielded Mind. The infernal couatl is immune to scrying and to any effect that would sense its emotions, read its thoughts, or detect its location. Actions Multiattack. The infernal couatl makes one Bite attack and one Constrict attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (3d6 + 8) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 24 hours. Until this poison ends, the target is unconscious. Another creature can use an action to shake the target awake. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one Large or smaller creature. Hit: 22 (4d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 22). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the infernal couatl can't use its Constrict attack on another target. Spellcasting. The infernal couatl casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: detect evil and good, detect magic, detect thoughts 3/day each: blindness/deafness, command, guiding bolt, inflict wounds, major image 1/day each: contagion, earthquake, fire storm, hold monster, scrying, storm of vengeance Change Shape. The infernal couatl magically transforms into a humanoid or beast while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the infernal couatl is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Reactions Shield (3/Day). The infernal couatl casts shield , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. Legendary Actions The infernal couatl can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The infernal couatl regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bite. The infernal couatl makes one Bite attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The infernal couatl magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The infernal couatl uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

