# Ancient Teju Jagua

**description**: The dreaded teju jagua appears as a massive hydra, with each of its seven heads resembling that of a war hound with reptilian features. Its skin is thick and covered by rough, crocodilian-like scales and matted fur. Its eyes are luminescent orbs that glow with an otherworldly fire, with each set having a different color. The powerful jaws of each head is filled with a row of sharp, jagged teeth. Nocturnal Omnivore. Despite its fearsome appearance, the teju jagua isn't particularly aggressive or evil. It usually avoids encounters except when hungry or defending its territory. It hates sunlight and will never enter locations that aren't hidden from the sun, except during twilight hours. This is the reason why the teju jagua is only encountered in dark areas, such as deep, massive caverns and forests and jungles heavily covered by canopies. Unbeknownst to most, the teju jagua is an omnivore with a diverse diet that includes berries, large mammals, and carrion. However, it has a predilection for fruits and honey, and is why a teju jagua will often make its lair in regions where giant bees live. A teju jagua may also come into conflict with humanoid settlements that grow and produce these sweet foods near its territory. Eye Rays. When hunting, the teju jagua usually just uses its powerful bite attacks to bring down large prey. However, if its target is particularly agile or challenging to catch, the teju jagua has a set of weapons it can employ - its eyes. Each set of eyes the teju jagua has are said to be magical portals to different elemental dimensions and planes. The teju jagua can control these portals, opening and closing them just enough to release a specific type of energy, which the teju jagua then focuses and projects toward a target of its choosing. The resulting magical blast is enough to maim, if not outright kill, a creature. Cursed Demigod. A teju jagua is not a naturally occurring creature. It is the result of being the offspring of a titan or god with a mortal being, cursed at birth by a powerful celestial or fiend, perhaps as revenge for the parent's past transgression or betrayal. This makes the teju jagua an almost unique creature, although there are rumors of other teju jagua. Whatever its origins, the teju jagua is often used as a mighty guardian by its parent or some other powerful being. While the teju jagua is inherently not evil, it is usually under the command of one that is. An Ancient Teju Jagua's Lair Due to its aversion to light, the teju jagua lairs in very dark and secluded areas that makes sunlight nearly impossible to reach. Such locations can be a vast cavern system, underground burrow complex, the bottom of a thousand-foot deep gorge, or the ruins of a ancient city shrouded by gigantic 200-foot-tall canopy trees and lianas. An ancient teju jagua encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 23 (50,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the teju jagua can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the tejua jagua can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Each creature of the teju jagua’s choice that is within 120 feet and aware of it must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of it until initiative count 20 on the next round. A creature that fails its saving throw by 5 or more is also paralyzed while frightened in this way. Magical darkness spreads from a point within the teju jagua's lair to fill a 60-foot-radius sphere. The darkness spreads around corners. Nonmagical light, as well as light created by spells of 6th level or lower, can’t illuminate the area. A creature with darkvision, other than the teju jagua, can't see through this darkness. The darkness lasts until the teju jagua uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the teju jagua dies. The teju jagua targets a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Any spell of 6th level or lower within 20 feet of that point ends. In addition, any type of fire (magical or otherwise) within that area is quenched. Until iniative count 20 on the next round, the teju jagua ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can't reduce its speed or cause it to be restrained. It can spend 5 feet of movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or being grappled. The teju jagua regains 30 hit points. If the teju jagua has a severed body part (head, leg, tail, etc.), it is restored. Traits Hold Breath. The teju jagua can hold its breath for 1 hour. Multiple Heads. The teju jagua has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Reactive Heads. The teju jagua gets six extra reactions that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the teju jagua has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Wakeful. While the teju jagua sleeps, at least one of its heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The teju jagua makes seven Bite attacks, each of which it can replace with one use of Eye Rays. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) piercing damage. Eye Rays. The teju jagua chooses one of the following magical eye rays at random (roll 1d8 and reroll 8s and Eye Rays that the teju jagua has used this round): 1. Acid Rays. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) acid damage and if the target is wearing an armor or shield, the armor or shield (determined randomly) of the target takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty to the AC it offers. Armor reduced to an AC of 10 or a shield that drops to a +0 bonus is destroyed. 2. Cold Rays. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) cold damage and the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet, can't use reactions, and has disadvantage on attack rolls and Dexterity ability checks and saving throws until the end of its next turn. 3. Fire Rays. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) fire damage and the target catches fire; until someone takes an action to douse the fire, the creature takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. 4. Lightning Rays. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) lightning damage and the target is incapacitated until the end of the teju jagua's next turn. 5. Necrotic Rays. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points, has disadvantage on Strength ability checks and saving throws, and deals only half damage with weapon attacks that use Strength until the end of the teju jagua's next turn. 6. Poison Rays. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) poison damage and the target is poisoned until the end of the teju jagua's next turn. A poisoned creature is paralyzed. 7. Radiant Rays. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) radiant damage and the target is blinded until the end of the teju jagua's next turn. Legendary Actions The teju jagua can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The teju jagua regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The teju jagua moves up to half its speed. Eye Rays. The teju jagua uses one of its magical eye rays at random (roll 1d8 and reroll 8s and Eye Rays that the teju jagua has used this round). Tail Sweep (Costs 2 Actions). Each target in a 20-foot cube originating from the teju jagua must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 19 (2d10 +8) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity (Titan)
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

