# Ancient Tarasca

**description**: At first glance, the monstrous tarasca appears to be a cross between a lion, a bear, and a turtle. The tarasca (not to be confused with the tarrasque) has the head of a lion, six legs of a bear, a turtle’s shell, and a tail that ends with a deadly stinger. Its mouth is beaked like a snapping turtle’s and ridged like a jagged saw. Sharp bony spikes line the top and sides of its hard shell. Dangerous Adversary. The dreaded tarasca is fiercely territorial and is known for its aggression and irascibility. It fears little and will even attack creatures bigger than itself. Most predators, even dragons, stay clear of it and find the tarasca simply not worth the risk of having a grievous injury. Aside from its stinger that can inject deadly venom, the tarasca can also exhale a highly toxic gas. Victims who survived getting caught by the breath describe the experience as having unbearably excruciating pain as if their insides are getting burned. Amphibious Predator. The tarasca is an amphibious creature that lives in flooded caves and underground caverns near large bodies of water such as coasts, coves, lakes, swamps, and rivers. It will eat and hunt anything of its size and smaller but prefers large fish and reptiles. It has been known to attack and pick off occupants of boats and even lunge from underwater to snap at a passing horse or livestock before dragging it back to the water. An Ancient Tarasca's Lair An ancient tarasca dwells in large, underground cavern complexes near marshes, rivers, and mangrove swamps. These lairs are usually accessible only via a large underwater tunnel or passage. An ancient tarasca encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 20 (25,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the tarasca can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the tarasca can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The tarasca lets out a terrifying roar that is audible out to 600 feet. Each enemy creature within 120 feet of the tarasca that can hear it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the tarasca for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this lair action for the next 24 hours. The tarasca causes the ground near it to shake violently. Each creature standing on the ground within 60 feet of the tarasca must succeed on a DC 21 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. The tarasca chooses a point on the ground that it can see within 120 feet of it. A 30-foot-radius, 1-foot-deep section centered on that point turns into roiling muck and becomes difficult terrain. It lasts for 1 minute, until the tarasca uses this lair action again, or until the tarasca dies or is incapacitated. A creature standing on the ground in that area, or enters it for the first time, must make a DC 20 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained. The tarasca regains 30 hit points. Traits Hold Breath. The tarasca can hold its breath for 15 minutes. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the tarasca fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The tarasca makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Sting attack. It can't use its Bite and Sting attacks against the same target. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the tarasca can automatically hit the target with its Bite attack, and the tarasca can't attack another target with its Bite attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slashing damage. Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) piercing damage. The target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Swallow. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target grappled by the tarasca. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage. The creature is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the tarasca, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the tarasca's turns. The tarasca can have only one target swallowed at a time. If the tarasca takes 25 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the tarasca must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate the swallowed creature, which falls prone in a space within 5 feet of the tarasca. If the tarasca dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. Poison Breath (Recharge 5-6). The tarasca exhales poisonous fumes in a 60-foot cube. Each creature in that area must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 49 (14d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. A creature being grappled by the tarasca has disadvantage on the saving throw. Legendary Actions The tarasca can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The tarasca regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Crawl. The tarasca moves up to half its speed. Claw. The tarasca makes a Claw attack. Bite (Costs 2 Actions). The tarasca makes a Bite attack or uses Swallow.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

