# Ancient Hydralisk

**description**: It is said that the first hydras were spawned from the blood of the dragon god Lernaea when the latter was slain by Tiamat. One of the droplets landed on a clutch of basilisk eggs, corrupting them and spawning the first set of hydralisks. Fearsome Abomination. At first glance, the hydralisk has the appearance of a typical hydra - a reptilian monster with multiple serpentine-like necks ending with draconic heads. However, a closer inspection reveals its other lineage - eight pairs of legs, bluish, slate-like scaly hide, maroon-colored stony spikes jutting from the back of its heads, necks, and spine, and an almost toad-like head. The hydralisk's eyes glow a faint blue and thin greenish gas seep from its maws. Petrifying Gaze. The hydralisk is as ponderous as a basilisk but also retains its ability to transform prey into stone with its supernatural gaze. Like a basilisk, a hydralisk consumes petrified creatures. The latter revert back to their organic forms once they reach the hydralisk's gullet. Unlike regular basilisks, a hydralisk is immune to petrification and thus cannot accidentally turn itself into stone if the eyes of its many heads meet each other's gazes. Regenerating Heads. What makes a hydralisk even more dangerous, is its ability to instantly regrow severed heads. Like a hydra, one must apply fire to the hydra's neck stump in order to stop a head from regenerating. Doing so however greatly increases the risk of meeting the monster's gaze. This is why very few escape an encounter with a hydralisk. Thankfully, a hydralisk is very rare. It can live in dry, temperate, or tropical environments. An Ancient Hydralisk's Lair An ancient hydralisk usually makes its lair in deep, massive caverns and desolate ruins. An ancient hydralisk encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 19 (22,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the hydralisk can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the hydralisk can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Several of the hydralisk's heads emit a bloodcurdling roar. Each creature within 120 feet of the hydralisk that can hear the hydralisk must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the hydralisk until the end of the hydralisk's next turn. The hydralisk causes a large section of the lair's ceiling to collapse on a point on the ground within 120 feet of the hydralisk. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 16 (3d10) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and restrained. A creature can use an action to make a DC 20 Strength check to free the restrained creature. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area requires at least 5 minutes to clear by hand. The hydralisk targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature uses its reaction to turn and meet the gaze of the hydralisk, forcing the creature to immediately make a saving throw against the hydralisk's Petrifying Gaze. The hydralisk regrows 1 head if it has less than 5 heads. Traits Hold Breath. The hydralisk can hold its breath for 1 hour. Multiple Heads. The hydralisk has five heads. While it has more than one head, the hydralisk has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious, and the DC of its Petrifying Gaze is increased by 1 (included in the Petrifying Gaze's DC). Whenever the hydralisk takes 25 or more damage in a single turn, one of its heads dies. If all its heads die, the hydralisk dies. At the end of its turn, it grows two heads for each of its heads that died since its last turn, unless it has taken fire damage since its last turn. The hydralisk regains 10 hit points for each head regrown in this way. Petrifying Gaze. If a creature starts its turn within 60 feet of the hydralisk and the two of them can see each other, the hydralisk can force the creature to make a DC 21 (DC 20 if it only has one head) Constitution saving throw if the hydralisk isn't incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature magically begins to turn to stone and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the creature is petrified until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. A creature that isn't surprised can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If it does so, it can't see the hydralisk until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If it looks at the hydralisk in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. Reactive Heads. For each head the hydralisk has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Wakeful. While the hydralisk sleeps, at least one of its heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The hydralisk makes as many Bite attacks as it has heads. It can use Poison Breath in place of one Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) poison damage. Poison Breath (1/Turn). One of the hydralisk's heads exhales poisonous gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The hydralisk can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The hydralisk regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The hydralisk moves up to half its speed. Bite. The hydralisk makes a Bite attack. Poison Breath (Costs 2 Actions). The hydralisk uses Poison Breath.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

