# Ancient Dragon Turtle

**description**: Dragon Turtles Dragon turtles are mighty creatures whose inherent magic is intimately linked with the oceans of the Material Plane. The dragon turtle presented in the Monster Manual is a typical adult, at least a century old and boasting a valuable hoard. You can use the stat blocks in this section for older or younger dragon turtles. In addition, chapter 5 includes lair actions and regional effects that can be used for adult or ancient dragon turtles. An ancient dragon turtle is a mythic creature akin to a greatwyrm, combining the power of multiple echoes from across the worlds of the Material Plane. Such a creature can be as large as an island—and indeed, legends suggest that many unwitting sailors wrecked at sea have mistaken slumbering dragon turtles for solid ground. Ancient dragon turtles might sleep for years or decades while floating along the surface of the ocean, enjoying the warmth of the sun and letting vegetation take root on their shells. An angry ancient dragon turtle is terrible to behold, radiating heat from the shell to boil the surrounding water—and any creatures in it. And even if an enemy wears down the dragon turtle's defenses, magical storms manifest to shield the dragon turtle and strike at foes. Traits Amphibious. The dragon turtle can breathe air and water. Blessing of the Sea (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If the dragon turtle would be reduced to 0 hit points, its current hit point total instead resets to 350 hit points, and it recharges its Steam Breath. Additionally, the dragon turtle can now use the options in the “Mythic Actions” section for 1 hour. Award a party an additional 62,000 XP (124,000 XP total) for defeating the dragon turtle after its Blessing of the Sea activates. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon turtle fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Unusual Nature. The dragon turtle doesn't require food or drink. Actions Multiattack. The dragon turtle makes one Bite or Tail attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (1d12 + 9) piercing damage plus 13 (2d12) lightning damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d8 + 9) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 24 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Steam Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon turtle exhales steam in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 24 Constitution saving throw, taking 67 (15d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Being underwater doesn't grant resistance against this damage. Legendary Actions The dragon turtle can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon turtle regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The dragon turtle makes one Claw or Tail attack. Move. The dragon turtle moves up to its speed. If the dragon turtle is swimming, this movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. Boiling Aura (Costs 3 Actions). The dragon turtle radiates intense heat. Until the start of the dragon turtle's next turn, whenever a creature starts its turn within 20 feet of the dragon turtle, that creature must succeed on a DC 24 Constitution saving throw or take 40 (9d8) fire damage. Being underwater doesn't grant resistance against this damage. Mythic Actions If the dragon turtle's Blessing of the Sea trait has activated in the last hour, it can use the options below as legendary actions. Bite. The dragon turtle makes one Bite attack. Armor of Storms (Costs 2 Actions). Lightning temporarily surrounds the dragon turtle, and it gains 40 temporary hit points until the start of its next turn. Until all these temporary hit points are gone, any creature that touches the dragon turtle or hits it with a melee attack takes 26 (4d12) lightning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: typically neutral
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Fizban's Treasury of Dragons

