# Ancient Latawiec

**description**: When an infant or toddler dies from a violent death and is discarded without a proper burial, the corpse may rise as a latawiec (pronounced la-ta-viyets). This undead creature is a ghoulish mirror of its former self, resembling a young humanoid corpse with the features of a monstrous bat: giant wings, long claw-like fingers, and a terrifying set of fangs. It is often mistaken for a vampire as it shares the same characteristics and proclivities. The latawiec is also a shapechanger, and usually takes the form of a vampire bat. However, it can also appear as a crow to blend into the background or a young child if it needs to take a less alarming form in order to draw out or lead its victim to a place where the latawiec can catch it alone. Sanguivorous Hunter. Because it was denied the chance to live, the latawiec is driven by hate and hunger against the living, most especially against expectant mothers. Like a vampire, it is hurt by sunlight and thus it hunts at night, seeking prey to drain blood from. It is so sensitive to the scent of fresh blood it can pinpoint its exact location even from a distance. Tranquilizing Toxin. Once the latawiec has chosen its victim, it only needs to wound the target with its claws. The latawiec's long finger nails secrete a toxin that causes a victim to sleep. Once the target is unconscious, the latawiec uses its very sharp fangs to puncture its prey's skin and draw blood. The latawiec's saliva also serves as a both an anaesthetic and anticoagulant, allowing the latawiec to feed in peace without fear of the victim regaining consciousness. As latawiecs get older, they gain magical abilities. They have an affinity to the element of air and are able to unleash dark lightning bolts and violent winds. Latawiecs haunt graveyards, abandoned manors, and caves located near populated settlements. An Ancient Latawiec's Lair An ancient latawiec makes its lair in places of despair and woe, such as ruined castles, old graveyards, and forgotten crypts. Such a location will always be within a few hours of travel to a populated area. It is not unusual for it to keep the company of ghouls and ghasts, as well as vampire bats or crows. An ancient latawiec encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 13 (10,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the latawiec can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the latawiec can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The latawiec casts gust of wind requiring no material components using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16). The latawiec targets up to three creatures it can see within 120 feet of it and unleashes short bolts of lightning toward each of them. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) lightning damage and it can't use reactions until the end of the latawiec's next turn. Each creature within 30 feet of the latawiec must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the latawiec until the end of the latawiec's next turn. Traits Blood Scent. The latawiec can pinpoint, by scent, the location of fresh blood within 60 feet of it. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the latawiec fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The latawiec regains 5 hit points at the start of each of its turns if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in sunlight. If the latawiec takes radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function until the start of the latawiec’s next turn. Spider Climb. The latawiec can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The latawiec takes 20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Actions Multiattack. The latawiec makes two attacks, only one of which can be a Bite attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned. While poisoned, the creature is unconscious. The poisoned target repeats the saving throw if it takes damage that isn't from the latawiec's Bite attack and at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the latawiec regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Abyssal Lightning (Recharge 5–6). The latawiec magically unleashes a stroke of abyssal lightning that forms a line 60 feet long and 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) lightning damage and 22 (5d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Change Shape. The latawiec magically transforms into a humanoid, crow, or vampire bat that is Small or Tiny, while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the latawiec is reduced to 0 hit points or uses a bonus action to end it. Legendary Actions The latawiec can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The latawiec regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The latawiec moves up to half its speed. Claw. The latawiec makes a Claw attack. Dreadful Gale (Costs 3 Actions). The latawiec summons a violent gust of supernatural wind. Each creature in a 20-foot cube originating from the latawiec must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) force damage and 13 (3d8) necrotic damage and is pushed up to 10 feet and knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

