# Ancient Infernal Manticore

**description**: The infernal manticore is a more perverse and diabolical version of the manticore. Its eyes gleam a sinister orange and its whole body emanates an aura of pure maleficence. Unlike its normal counterpart, the infernal manticore possesses a more cunning intellect, allowing it to plan and utilize elaborate traps and strategies. An Infernal Ancient Manticore's Lair An infernal ancient manticore lives in caves and ruins found in dense forests, rugged mountains, and desolate wastelands. A infernal ancient manticore encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 17 (18,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the infernal manticore can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the infernal manticore can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The infernal manticore casts wall of fire , using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17). The infernal manticore doesn’t need to concentrate on the spell, which lasts until the infernal manticore uses this lair action again, the infernal manticore dies or is incapacitated, or until the infernal manticore dismisses it as a bonus action. The infernal manticore casts stinking cloud , using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. The infernal manticore doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. it lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. The infernal manticore summons 1 barbed devil or 2 bearded devils . A summoned devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the infernal manticore and acts as an ally of the infernal manticore. It remains for an hour, until it or the infernal manticore dies, or until the infernal manticore dismisses it as an action. The infernal manticore regains 35 hit points and ends blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting it. Infernal Creatures Infernal creatures are diabolical fiends bearing the taint of devil's blood. Most are born naturally with a devil lineage, but a few, whether willingly or by coersion, entered into a contract with an arch devil. Infernals usually have dark or crimson skins, and some sport short horns on their foreheads. A rare few exude an aura of fire, while others can breath hellfire. Devious Tricksters. Deceptive and highly manipulative, these fiendish entities possess a propensity for trickery and subterfuge, often using disguises or the persona of their normally good-aligned kin. Infernals navigate the realms with a calculated and elusive presence, adept at ensnaring the unsuspecting in their web of deceit. Collecting souls as their ultimate goal, these creatures embody the very essence of malevolence and treachery. Traits Infernal Aura. An enemy that starts its turn within 20 feet of the infernal manticore must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, unless the infernal manticore is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target is frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the infernal manticore's Infernal Aura for the next 24 hours or until it takes damage from the infernal manticore's Infernal Fire Breath. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the infernal manticore fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The infernal manticore has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Tail Spike Regrowth. The infernal manticore has twenty-four tail spikes. Used spikes regrow when the manticore finishes a long rest. Actions Multiattack. The infernal manticore makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Alternatively, it can make three Tail Spike attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) fire damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage. Tail Spike. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 100/200 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) fire damage, and the target has disadvantage being frightened until the end of the infernal manticore's next turn. Infernal Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The infernal manticore exhales infernal fire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 56 (16d6) fire damage and the target has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened until the end of the infernal manticore's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Legendary Actions The infernal manticore can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The infernal manticore regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The infernal manticore makes one Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The infernal manticore magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see Spike Volley (Costs 3 Actions). The infernal manticore makes three Tail Spike attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

