# Ancient Snow Golem

**description**: The snow golem is an imposing figure, standing at 11 feet tall and made entirely of compact snow. Its body is a large, humanoid mass, with a wide chest and sturdy arms. Its head is almost an indistinct shape, mostly lost among the snow that makes up its body, unless it moves suddenly or purposefully. Its small eyes burn like bluish embers. Cold Juggernaut. The snow golem's combat abilities are impressive; it has powerful limbs that can crush foes and create large snow boulders and hurl them as missiles with incredible accuracy and force. Those struck by the snow boulders can suddenly find themselves knocked prone and buried by the thick snow. When damaged, a snow golem can regenerate for as long as any part of its body is in direct contact with a snowy or icy surface. Advanced snow golems can even breathe a cone of snow and ice, blinding and freezing victims caught within the breath’s area of effect. Hidden Sentinel. Constructed by frost mages and druids, a snow golem is used primarily as a guardian. Because the golem can effortlessly blend with snowy backgrounds, it is often placed to defend strategic passes, roads, and mountain trails from potential intruders. They resemble nothing more than a pile of snow-covered mounds at a distance, enabling them to surprise foes. Traits False Appearance. If the golem is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the golem move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the golem is animate. Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Regeneration. While standing on snowy ground, the golem regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the golem takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the golem's next turn. The golem dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Unusual Nature. The golem doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks or two Snow Boulder attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, blinded, and unable to breathe. Snow Boulder. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d4 + 7) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and restrained by snow until the target or a creature within 5 feet of it uses an action to remove the snow. Blizzard Breath (Recharge 6). The golem exhales a blast of freezing snow in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 36 (8d8) cold damage and is blinded until the end of the golem's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. Legendary Actions The golem can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The golem regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The golem moves up to half its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The golem makes a Slam attack or Snow Boulder attack. Snow Surge (Costs 3 Actions). The golem emits a violent wave of snow in all directions. Each creature within 15 feet of it must make a DC 20 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) cold damage and is knocked prone and restrained by snow until the target or a creature within 5 feet of it uses an action to remove the snow. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone or restrained.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

