# Ancient Morkoth

**description**: Morkoth normally only live for 80-100 years but a very rare few have unnatural life spans that go beyond that. These ancient morkoth has grown larger and more powerful than their brethren, and have amassed vast amounts of knowledge, becoming powerful wizards. They make their lairs in the center of treacherous underwater mazes in the deepest parts of the seas or Underdark lakes. Traits Amphibious. The morkoth can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the morkoth fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The morkoth makes either two Bite attacks and one Tentacles attack or three Bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) slashing damage. Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and takes 22 (4d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage at the start of each of the morkoth's turns, and the morkoth can't use its Tentacles on another target. Hypnosis. The morkoth projects a 60-foot cone of magical energy. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed by the morkoth for 1 minute. While charmed in this way, the target tries to get as close to the morkoth as possible, using its actions to Dash until it is within 5 feet of the morkoth. A charmed target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns and whenever it takes damage, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature has advantage on saving throws against the morkoth's Hypnosis for 24 hours. Spellcasting. The morkoth casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: dancing lights, detect magic, mage hand, prestidigitation 3/day each: darkness, dimension door, dispel magic, lightning bolt, sending 1/day each: chain lightning, dominate monster, forcecage, maelstrom, telekinesis Legendary Actions The morkoth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The morkoth regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bite. The morkoth makes one Bite attack. Tentacles (Costs 2 Actions). The morkoth makes one attack with its Tentacles. Hypnosis (Costs 2 Actions). The morkoth uses Hypnosis. Cast Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The morkoth uses Spellcasting. Reactions Spell Reflection. If the morkoth makes a successful saving throw against a spell, or a spell attack misses it, the morkoth can choose another creature (including the spellcaster) it can see within 120 feet of it. The spell targets the chosen creature instead of the morkoth. If the spell forced a saving throw, the chosen creature makes its own save. If the spell was an attack, the attack roll is rerolled against the chosen creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

