# Ancient Infernal Wyvern

**description**: Devils and powerful cultists who worship archdevils sometimes steal the eggs of a wyverns and similar creatures. Through a long and macabre ritual, the eggs are imbued with infernal essences. Most embryos die from the dark process but those that manage to survive and hatch grow into infernal wyverns. An Infernal Ancient Wyvern's Lair An ancient infernal wyvern makes its lair in cliffside caverns and ruined structures atop mountains and canyons. An ancient infernal wyvern encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 18 (20,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the infernal wyvern can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the infernal wyvern can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Each creature of the infernal wyvern's choice that is within 60 feet of the infernal wyvern and aware of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become vulnerable to fire for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The infernal wyvern spits infernal fire at a point within 60 feet of it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 21 (6d6) fire damage and the creature has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. The infernal wyvern summons 2d4 imps . A summoned devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the infernal wyvern and acts as an ally of the infernal wyvern. It remains for an hour, until it or the infernal wyvern dies, or until the infernal wyvern dismisses it as an action. Infernal Creatures Infernal creatures are diabolical fiends bearing the taint of devil's blood. Most are born naturally with a devil lineage, but a few, whether willingly or by coersion, entered into a contract with an arch devil. Infernals usually have dark or crimson skins, and some sport short horns on their foreheads. A rare few exude an aura of fire, while others can breath hellfire. Devious Tricksters. Deceptive and highly manipulative, these fiendish entities possess a propensity for trickery and subterfuge, often using disguises or the persona of their normally good-aligned kin. Infernals navigate the realms with a calculated and elusive presence, adept at ensnaring the unsuspecting in their web of deceit. Collecting souls as their ultimate goal, these creatures embody the very essence of malevolence and treachery. Traits Infernal Aura. An enemy that starts its turn within 30 feet of the infernal wyvern must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, unless the infernal wyvern is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target is frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the infernal wyvern's Infernal Aura for the next 24 hours or until it takes damage from the infernal wyvern's Infernal Fire Breath. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the infernal wyvern fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The infernal wyvern has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The infernal wyvern makes one Bite attack and one Stinger attack. While flying, it can use its Claws attack in place of one other attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) slashing damage. Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage. The target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Infernal Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The infernal wyvern exhales infernal fire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 63 (18d6) fire damage and the target has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened until the end of the infernal wyvern's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Legendary Actions The infernal wyvern can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The infernal wyvern regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bite. The infernal wyvern makes one Bite attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The infernal wyvern beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the infernal wyvern must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The infernal wyvern can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

