# Ancient Mountain Drake

**description**: A mountain drake is a wingless drake with crag-like bony spikes jutting from the upper areas of its body, including the top of its skull. Its scaly hide ranges from red, brown, and maroon. It has a head shaped like a goat's, with a short draconic snout and curving ram-like horns extending from each side. Mountain drakes are sought by both cloud and fire giants who use them as guardians and pets. Mountain Denizen. It may appear slow at first, but the mountain drake is surprisingly surefooted when it scales the sides of rocky cliffs and steep, rocky slopes. It usually preys on mountain goats and other creatures living near mountain peaks. If food is scarce, it will not hesitate to venture to the lower areas to hunt for anything that it deems edible, including adventurers. Ambush Hunter. When hunting, it usually finds a suitable ambush perch such as a cliffside ledge from where it can leap and catch prey below it by surprise. It will usually open its attack by ramming its target first to knock it prone and possibly stun it before clamping its jaws on the victim's throat or back of its neck to deliver the killing blow. When it finds itself outnumbered or in a fight with its typical enemies such as perytons and wyverns, it resorts to its powerful breath weapon, a cloud of searing hot ash and sulfur that can leave creatures caught within it choking and unable to breathe. Switching Hierarchies. Mountain drakes establish dominance hierarchies at a young age. Males are usually dominant during the breeding season, but during the non-breeding season, the hierarchy is switched. At this time, adult females, who are typically larger than males, become dominant. An Ancient Mountain Drake's Lair An ancient mountain drake is normally found in the volcanic regions where the Elemental Planes of Earth and Fire intersect. In the Material Plane, it dwells in warm caves and volcanic basins with entrances located in high, steep cliff walls. An ancient mountain drake encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 15 (13,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the drake can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the drake can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The drake casts stinking cloud , requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15). It lasts until the drake uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the drake dies. A block of rock from the cavern's ceiling collapses above a creature that the drake can see within 120 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 22 (4d10) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and restrained. A creature can use an action to make a DC 15 Strength check to free the restrained creature. The drake creates up to four opaque cubes of fire on a solid surface it can see within 60 feet of it. The cubes can be up to 10 feet square in size. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. When the cubes appear, each creature within its area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) fire damage, or half as much damage on a successful save. A creature takes the same damage when it enters any of the cubes for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. The cubes disappear when the drake uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the drake dies. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Charge. If the drake moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 11 (2d10) damage and must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target's saving throw fails by 5 or more, it is also stunned until the end of the drake's next turn. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drake fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack . The drake makes one Bite or Ram attack, two Claw attacks, and one Spiked Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) fire damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) slashing damage. Spiked Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) piercing damage. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Brimstone Breath (Recharge 6). The drake exhales ash, sulfur, and white-hot embers in a 60-foot cube originating from the drake. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 42 (12d6) fire damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature spends its action on each of its turns coughing and reeling. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to fire or poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Legendary Actions The drake can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drake regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The drake makes a Claw attack. Frightful Gaze. The drake targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the drake's Frightful Gaze for the next 24 hours. Trampling Ram (Costs 3 Actions). The drake moves up to 40 feet in a straight line and can move through the space of a Huge or smaller creature. Each time it enters a creature’s space during this move, that creature must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 23 (3d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature is pushed to the nearest space out of the drake's path. If a prone creature remains in the drake's space, it is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the drake.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

