# Ancient Deep Drake

**description**: The deep drake is a formidable creature that dwells in the Elemental Plane of Earth but can also be found in the Material Plane. It lives entirely underground and shuns the touch of sunlight. Although not completely blind, it relies heavily on echolocation to navigate its dark and labyrinthine habitat and to hunt its unsuspecting prey. Stone Camouflage. The deep drake possesses scales or scutes akin to a crocodile's but resembling a stone-like texture, allowing it to seamlessly blend into its natural surroundings. Further aiding in its camouflage are its ability to climb surfaces effortlessly and the bony stalactite-like ridges adorning its spine, enhancing its ability to remain hidden within the shadowed recesses of cavern ceilings. Sonic Blaster. The deep drake stalks the winding caverns and underground tunnels, searching for a spot to hide, typically in the ceiling above a busy underground trail or passage. There, the deep drake patiently awaits for prey to venture close. Once the opportunity arises, With acute precision, it emits a powerful sonar blast. The forceful shockwave generated by the blast creates a sudden, intense compression, leading to destructive consequences to a creature upon impact. The sonic burst can rupture a creature's delicate tissues, such as eardrums, damage internal organs and blood vessels, shatter bones, and cause concussion. Creatures who survive the attack are often left reeling and vulnerable to the deep drake's death blow, which is a swift and powerful bite at the prey's neck or spine. Salt Geophagy. The deep drake's diet consists of normal and giant-sized bats, insects, reptiles, worms, and other manner of vermin but will include larger dangerous prey such as grimlocks and other humanoids if food is scarce. It supplements its carnivorous diet with salt deposits and crystals, biting and licking these salt formations that are abundant in cave systems that have or are near saline springs and pools. These minerals help it develop its tough, stone-like hide. Kobold Mounts. A deep drake is often encountered singly or as a mated pair, but a few run in packs, with several young ones led by an adult alpha. Kobolds are known to capture young deep drakes and train them as mounts and guards. An Ancient Deep Drake's Lair An ancient deep drake roosts in large subterranean crevices, ledges, and burrows that overlook a vast cavernous network that is connected to a number of complex tunnel systems. An ancient deep drake encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the drake can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the drake can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Dozens of stalactites from the cavern's ceiling break off and fall down to the ground centered on a point within 120 feet of the drake. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and restrained. A creature can use an action to make a DC 15 Strength check to free the restrained creature. The drake exhales corrosive sand in a 60-foot-line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) acid damage and is blinded until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. The drake creates a seismic disturbance at a point on the ground it can see within its lair. Until initiative count 20 on the next round, a strong tremor rips through the ground in a 40-foot-radius circle centered on that point and shakes creatures in contact with the ground in that area. Until the duration ends, the ground in the area becomes difficult terrain. In addition, each creature in that area or enters it for the first time, while the tremor occurs must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Furthermore, each creature that is concentrating must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature's concentration is broken. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Echolocation. The drake can’t use its blindsight while deafened. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drake fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spider Climb. The drake can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Stone Camouflage. The drake has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) thunder damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Sonic Breath (Recharge 6). The drake emits a sonic shockwave in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 45 (10d8) thunder damage, is deafened for 1 minute, and is stunned until the end of the drake's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened or stunned. Legendary Actions The drake can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drake regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The drake makes a Claw attack. Frightful Gaze. The drake targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the drake's Frightful Gaze for the next 24 hours. Resonance Disruption (Costs 2 Actions). The drake emits an ultrasonic chirp that causes unnatural vibrational frequencies. Each creature within 20 feet of the drake must succeed on DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature becomes vulnerable to thunder damage, can't concentrate, can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the target can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. The effects last until the end of the drake's next turn. Creatures immune to thunder damage automatically save against this legendary action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

