# Ancient Glatisant

**description**: The horrid glatisant is a bizarre amalgamation of three creatures. It has the head, neck, and tail of a monstrous serpent, the body and thighs of a leopard, and the cloven hooves of a hart. It stands 6 feet tall at the shoulder, and its body length measures 25 feet long. Demonic Offspring. The glatisant is born from the union of a humanoid of royal descent and a powerful demon. The humanoid is said to have desired something - power, wealth, or having someone specific to fall in love with it and, in desperation, petitioned a demon. In return for fulfilling its wishes, the humanoid is required to have sexual intercourse with the demon. After 3 months, either the humanoid (if she was female) or the demon gives birth to a serpent, which immediately escapes to the wild. Curse to the Land. The vile creature rapidly grows into a glatisant and becomes bound to the territory it was born into and can never willingly leave it. Born with an insatiable lust to kill and devour flesh, the glatisant becomes a terrible menace to the land as it stalks and preys on people, game animals, and livestock. Borborygmus. The glatisant is a cunning and very dangerous predator. Due to its demonic lineage, it has a very heightened sense of smell, incredible strength, speed, and natural resistance to magic. Its powerful kicks can fell giants and its dreadful bite can inject a deadly venom that can cause muscle, tissue, and organ to rapidly rot. The glatisant can also spit or spray this potent venom at long ranges, causing blindness to those it hits. What the glatisant is known for, however, is its ability to make its belly create loud, dreadful, growling sounds that chill the blood of anyone who hears it. Questing Beast. The glatisant is known by other names on other continents. Among the most popular names it is called is serpopard, because of its appearance, and questing beast, due to it being an immediate cause of concern that a kingdom would hire adventurers to slay it. An Ancient Glatisant's Lair The ancient glatisant's lair is usually a dark cave located in the most dismal and deplorable section of the land it is bound to. The entrance to its cave is littered with the skeletal remains of its victims and is often surrounded by thickets and treacherous bogs. An ancient glatisant encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the glatisant can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the glatisant can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: A wall of gnarly and thorny thickets rise from the ground within 60 feet of the glatisant. The wall is up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick, and it blocks line of sight. When the wall appears, each creature in its area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. A creature that fails the save takes 9 (2d8) piercing damage, is poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round, and is pushed 5 feet out of the wall’s space, appearing on whichever side of the wall it wants. A creature can move through the wall, albeit slowly and painfully. For every 1 foot a creature travels through the wall, it must spend 4 feet of movement. Furthermore, a creature in the wall’s space must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw once each round it’s in contact with the wall. On a failed save, the creature takes 9 (2d8) piercing damage and is poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Each 10-foot section of wall has AC 10, 25 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage, resistance to bludgeoning and piercing damage, and immunity to psychic damage. The wall sinks back into the ground when the glatisant uses this lair action again or when the glatisant dies. Creatures within 60 feet of the glatisant have disadvantage on saving throws until initiative count 20 on the next round. The glatisant emits a cloud of noxious gas. Each creature within 20 feet of the glatisant must make a DC 18 Constitutions saving throw or become poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round. A poisoned creature is stunned. Traits Keen Smell. The glatisant has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the glatisant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The glatisant has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The glatisant makes one Bite attack, one Hooves attack, and one Tail attack. It can use Poison Spit in place of its Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) piercing damage and the target must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 42 (12d6) poison damage and is poisoned. A poisoned creature is incapacitated and takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage at the end of each of its turns. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Poison Spit. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (6d6) poison damage and the target must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is blinded. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Poison Spray (Recharge 5–6). The glatisant spits poison in a line that is 60 feet long and 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is blinded. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Bonus Actions Borborygmus. The glatisant's belly emits a loud and horrific growling sound. Each creature that isn't a glatisant within 120 feet of the glatisant and can hear the glatisant must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw, unless the glatisant is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target is frightened until the end of the glatisant's next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the glatisant's Borborygmus for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The glatisant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The glatisant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Spring. The glatisant moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Bludgeon. The glatisant makes one Hooves or Tail attack. Poison Spit (Costs 2 Actions). The glatisant makes one Poison Spit attack. Bite (Costs 3 Actions). The glatisant makes one Bite attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

