# Ancient Chimera

**description**: When a chimera has lasted more than its average lifespan and devoured countless prey, it can be gifted by Demogorgon additional life and power. The chimera ages and eventually grows into a more formidable version - an ancient chimera. It is easily twice the size of its regular kind and has developed the ability to unleash a roar so terrifying it can paralyze those who hear it. Territorial Predator. The ancient chimera will actively hunt down and drive out any competitors and predators within miles of its lair. When an ancient chimera has finally settled, the area around it soon becomes dismal and desolate - with the various bones of its prey littering the ground. Mercenary Guardian. Although more beast than dragon, the ancient chimera is still fond of hoarding treasure, and may be coaxed by a more powerful creature (such as an evil archmage, demon, lich, or giant) to serve as a guardian if paid and fed well. Traits Three-Headed. The chimera has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Actions Multiattack. The chimera makes four attacks: one with its Lion's Bite, one with its Dragon's Bite, one with its Horns, and one with its Claws. When its Fire Breath is available, it can use Fire Breath in place of Dragon's Bite. Dragon's Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) fire. Lion's Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage. Horns. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon head exhales fire in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 63 (14d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The chimera can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The chimera regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tail. The chimera makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The chimera beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the chimera must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The chimera can then fly up to half its flying speed. Lion's Roar (Costs 3 Actions). The chimera's lion head emits a magical roar. Each creature within 120 feet that can hear its roar must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be and frightened for one minute. A creature that fails the save by 5 or more is also paralyzed for the same duration. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the Lion's Roar the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

