# Ancient Tundra Drake

**description**: The tundra drake is an unusual-looking creature. While it generally appears like a wingless white dragon, it also shares the characteristics of a wooly rhinoceros and a yeti. Its body is covered with ivory-white scales and shaggy, grayish-white fur and a large pointy horn protrudes from the front of its draconic-shaped head. Ambush Predator. The tundra drake moves with an apish gait, its powerful yeti-like arms enabling it to climb and scale steep surfaces with ease. When hunting, a tundra drake will hide underneath the snow or blend on a cliff's surface while waiting for prey to pass by. Once a potential target gets within range, the drake explodes into action, leaping with its outstretched claws. If the target is too far, it uses its powerful rear limbs to charge and ram it, crippling its victim before going for the kill. Steppe Hunter. A tundra drake usually preys on oxen, reindeers, and yaks, but will stalk and eat anything edible if food is scarce. A tundra drake is sometimes found in the company of yeti and frost giants who utilize the drake as a guard. An Ancient Tundra Drake's Lair An ancient tundra drake makes its lair in mountain cliffs overlooking frozen steppes and in cold, windswept ravines and gorges. An ancient tundra drake encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 13 (10,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the drake can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the drake can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The drake casts sleet storm , requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14). The drake doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. It lasts until the drake uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the drake dies. Powerful, freezing winds blast through a point within 120 feet of the drake. The drake need not see that point. Each creature within 30 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) cold damage and if the creature is Huge or smaller, is pushed up to 15 feet, and knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed or knocked prone. The drake emits a terrifying bellow. Each creature within 60 feet of the drake that can hear the drake must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake until initiative count 20 on the next round. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drake fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Snow Camouflage. The drake has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in snowy terrain. Stunning Charge. If the drake moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and stunned until the end of the drake's next turn. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite or Gore attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) cold damage, and the target can't use reactions until the end of the drake's next turn. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Glacial Breath (Recharge 5–6). The drake exhales a crippling cloud of freezing air in a 60-foot-cube originating from the drake. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 49 (11d8) cold damage and can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the target can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. These effects last for 1 minute. A target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Legendary Actions The drake can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drake regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw . The drake makes a Claw attack. Frightful Gaze. The drake targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the drake for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the drake's Frightful Gaze for the next 24 hours. Goring Charge (Costs 3 Actions). The drakes moves up to its speed in a straight line and targets each creature within 10 feet of it during its movement. Each target must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

