# Ancient Mahaha

**description**: The mahaha is a malevolent undead creature that resembles an emaciated human with terrifying ghoulish features. Its course skin has a pale bluish tint and is severely frostbitten. Its long white or grayish hair is frozen stiff, and its eyes are milky white and have no irises. The mahaha stands hunched over with its long spindly arms ending in oversized claw-like hands and moves with a feral gait. Malignant Predator. The mahaha is born from cold and hate. In very rare instances when a particularly vile and evil humanoid dies from hypothermia, its doomed spirit is reborn as a malicious entity that possesses its corpse. Driven by malice, the mahaha wanders the frozen wastes endlessly and hunts for living beings. Because a mahaha is eternally compelled to roam, it never keeps a lair and is often encountered alone. Chilling Touch. When a mahaha discovers nearby prey, it pursues and stalks it relentlessly. It can catch someone near it with surprise with its sudden burst of speed. Anyone struck by a mahaha's claw will feel an intense, biting cold course through their veins. This supernatural cold causes intense chills that force the victims to fall into fits of uncontrollable laughter, leaving their corpses with bizarre and twisted smiling expressions frozen on their faces. As a mahaha ages and gains more kills, it grows in power. Elder and ancient mahaha are very dangerous for their ability to unleash terrible screams that debilitate one’s mind. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the mahaha fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Turn Resistance. The mahaha has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns Undead. Actions Multiattack. The mahaha uses Horrifying Visage. It then makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) cold damage and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed saving throw, the creature is knocked prone and incapacitated for 1 minute as it is overcome by a fit of laughter. At the end of each of its turns, the creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Horrifying Visage. Each non-undead creature within 60 feet of the mahaha that can see her must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the mahaha is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the mahaha’s Horrifying Visage for the next 24 hours. Demented Shriek (Recharge 5-6). The mahaha emits a mind-wracking shriek than can be heard out to a range of 120 feet. Each creature within 60 feet of the mahaha that can hear it must succeed on a DC 17 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 35 (10d6) psychic damage and has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until the end of the mahaha's next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage damage with no additional effects. Bonus Actions Aggressive. The mahaha moves up to its speed toward a hostile creature that it can see. Legendary Actions The mahaha can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The mahaha regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The mahaha moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Claw (Costs 2 Actions). The mahaha makes a Claw attack. Raking Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The mahaha moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and makes two Claw attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

