# Ancient Medusa

**description**: An ancient medusa resembles a greater medusa but is said to be the first among its kind, and possibly one of the progenitors of its race. The ancient medusa is a cruel, hateful, and vain creature. She despises anything that she used to look like and always schemes to destroy civilized folk living near her territory. Dangerous Combatant. The ancient medusa is a deadly foe. Aside from the obvious danger of petrification, she is an accomplished sorcerer and an expert marksman with the longbow. Her very blood is poisonous, and when it hits the ground, a swarm of snakes spring from it and attack her foes. An Ancient Medusa's Lair An ancient medusa lives in the ruins of where she used to reside during a time before she was cursed - a once majestic castle, keep, or temple, located far from civilization and often secluded from the world and overgrown with thick vegetation. Petrified heroes sent to slay her stand like macabre statue decorations around her lair. An ancient medusa usually lives like a hermit, residing alone in her lair. One may keep minions that are immune to her petrifying gaze, such as grimlocks and incorporeal undead that used to serve the medusa when they were still alive. An ancient medusa encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 17 (18,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the medusa can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the medusa can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The medusa causes up to three petrified statue to animate ( animated stone statue ). These Constructs obey the medusa's commands. The medusa regains 20 hit points. The medusa's snake hair hisses aloud menacingly. Each creature within 30 feet of the medusa and can hear it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the medusa for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this lair effect for the next 24 hours. Regional Effects The region containing a medusa’s lair is warped by the medusa’s foul magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The land within 6 miles of the lair takes twice as long as normal to traverse, since the vegetation grow thick and twisted. Beasts within 1 mile of the lair become evil and violent - even creatures that are normally docile. Serpents within 1 mile of the ancient medusa’s lair serve as the ancient medusa’s eyes and ears. If the ancient medusa dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Blood of the Serpents. A creature that hits the medusa with a melee attack that deals piercing or slashing damage and is within 5 feet of it takes 5 (1d10) poison damage. Additionally, a swarm of poisonous snakes (MM) appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the medusa, and acts as an ally of the medusa. The swarm remains for an hour or until it or the medusa dies. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the medusa fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Petrifying Gaze. When a creature that can see the medusa's eyes starts its turn within 30 feet of the medusa, the medusa can force it to make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw if the medusa isn't incapacitated and can see the creature. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is instantly petrified. Otherwise, a creature that fails the save begins to turn to stone and is restrained. The restrained creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn, becoming petrified on a failure or ending the effect on a success. The petrification lasts until the creature is freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can't see the medusa until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at the medusa in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. If the medusa sees itself reflected on a polished surface within 30 feet of it and in an area of bright light, the medusa is, due to its curse, affected by its own gaze. Sorcery Points. The medusa has 12 sorcery points. It can spend 1 or more sorcery points to gain one of the following benefits: Heightened Spell: When the medusa casts a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist the spell's effects, the medusa can spend 3 sorcery points to give one target of the spell disadvantage on its first saving throw against the spell. Quickened Spell: When the medusa casts a spell that has a casting time of 1 action, it can spend 2 sorcery points to change the casting time to 1 bonus action for this casting. Subtle Spell: When the medusa casts a spell, it can spend l sorcery point to cast the spell without any somatic or verbal components. Actions Multiattack. The medusa makes either three melee attacks - one with its Snake Hair and two with its Scimitar - or three ranged attacks with its Longbow. It can replace one of its attacks with Constrict. Snake Hair. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage plus 21 (6d6) poison damage. Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the medusa can't use Constrict on another target. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage. Spellcasting. The medusa casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks): At will: minor illusion, mending, prestidigitation, shape water 2/day each: lightning bolt, mirror image, thunderwave (3d8) 1/day each: charm monster, globe of invulnerability, stoneskin,* synaptic static, vitriolic sphere * The medusa casts this spell before combat. Legendary Actions The medusa can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The medusa regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Slither. The medusa moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Melee. The medusa makes a Scimitar attack or uses Constrict. Longbow (Costs 2 Actions). The medusa makes a Longbow attack. Force Petrifying Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). The medusa forces a creature grappled by it to meet its gaze. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become petrified (see Petrifying Gaze). Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The medusa uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

