# Ancient Half-Red Dragon Tyrannosaurus Rex

**description**: Truly one of the most fearsome creatures one can encounter, the half-red dragon tyrannosaurus rex is an embodiment of rage and destruction. Standing over 20 feet, this half-dragon resembles a tyrannosaur with the horns, wings, tail, and the deep scarlet scales of an adult red dragon. Its eyes glow like embers while a searing, intense orange light illuminates the inside of its jaws. While it can fly, it can only do so for short periods of time due to its enormous weight and underdeveloped wings. Vicious Tyrant. The half-red dragon tyrannosaurus rex may not possess the intellect of its draconic parent, but it exhibits a level of cunning and deviousness never seen in carnivorous dinosaurs. It is highly aggressive and territorial, slaughtering and devouring anything it encounters within its domain. It can even be perceived that the half-dragon enjoys the carnage and violence it inflicts. Covetous Hoarder. The half-red dragon tyrannosaurus rex has also inherited the avaricious nature of its draconic lineage. While it may not exactly know the value of treasure, the half-dragon is innately driven to accumulate and collect items of value and craftsmanship, such as coins, precious minerals, and jewelry. The half-dragon will rarely leave its treasure pile except when it needs to hunt. Elder and Ancient Ones. As the half-red dragon tyrannosaurus rex advances in age, it becomes more dangerous and powerful. It can unleash a deafening roar that can strike fear in the hearts of the bravest of heroes. Ancient ones can reach heights of over 26 feet and crush foes with a single stomp of their massive clawed feet. A Half-Red Dragon T-Rex's Lair A half-red dragon tyrannosaurus rex makes its lair at the foot of active volcanoes, lava basins, and magma-flooded caverns located deep within dense jungles. The challenge rating of a half-red dragon tyrannosaurus rex increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the half-dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the half-dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The half-dragon causes a volcanic-like eruption at a point on the ground it can see within its lair. Each creature standing on the ground within 30 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5 (1d10) bludgeoning damage and 5 (1d10) fire damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone. The half-dragon chooses up to three points on the ground it can see within its lair. A cloud of thick, sulfuric gas fills a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on each point. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. A creature other than the half-dragon that starts its turn in the cloud or enters it for the first time on its turn must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to fire or poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. The cloud lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. A moderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses the cloud instantly. The half-dragon chooses up to three points on the ground it can see within its lair. Oil erupts from the ground in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on each point. For the duration of the effect, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain. When the oil appears, each creature standing in its area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone and become vulnerable to fire until the start of its next turn. A creature that enters those areas or ends its turn there must also succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone and become vulnerable to fire until the start of its next turn. The oil lasts for 1 minute, until the half-dragon uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the half-dragon dies. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the half-dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon makes one Bite attack and one Tail attack. It can't make both attacks against the same target. It can use Frightful Roar in place of its Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 42 (5d12 + 10) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 20). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the half-dragon can't use its Bite attack on another target. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage and the target must succeed on a DC 25 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Frightful Roar. The half-dragon emits a dreadful roar audible out to 300 feet. Each creature within 120 feet of the half-dragon and able to hear the roar must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the half-dragon's Frightful Roar for the next 24 hours. Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales fire in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 56 (16d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 5 ft., one prone creature. Hit: 23 (3d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage and the target must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of half-dragon's next turn. Legendary Actions The half-dragon can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The half-dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The half-dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail. The half-dragon makes a Tail attack. Roar (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon uses Frightful Roar. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 15 feet of the half-dragon must succeed on a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw or take 17 (2d6 + 10) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The half-dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

