# Ancient Solar Dragon

**description**: A solar dragon glows like the sun, with burnished wings that shimmer with waves of heat and gleam like flames. A crown of horns decorates its head. Arrogant and proud, solar dragons see themselves as the originators of light and life in the vastness of space. They treat all living creatures with a kind of detached paternalism, regal creators deigning to involve themselves with their creations. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), a solar dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: A searing beam of light strikes a creature within 120 feet of the dragon that it can see. The dragon makes one ranged attack roll (+6 to hit) against the target. On a hit, the target takes 3 (1d6) radiant damage and 3 (1d6) fire damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. A solar wind rushes through the lair in a 90-foot line that is 15-feet wide originating from a point within 120 feet of the dragon that it can see. Each creature in the solar wind’s area must succeed a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet following the direction of the line and take 3 (1d6) radiant and 3 (1d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage and isn’t pushed on a successful one. The solar wind disperses gas or vapors. The moisture in the air rapidly dries out in a 60-foot radius centered on the dragon. Each creature within the area is overcome with an unquenchable thirst and must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, suffering a level of exhaustion on a failed save. Constructs and creatures immune to fire damage are immune to this ability. Regional Effects The region containing an ancient lunar dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s nature, which creates one or more of the following effects: Plants within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair have fed off the dragon’s ambient radiance, becoming supernaturally large and taking on unnatural colorations. Areas directly exposed to the sun (or suns) within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair are subjected to sweltering heat and intense sunlight. Undead that venture within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair experience sporadic, but nonlethal, muscle tremors. If the dragon dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyStyle, li.BodyCopyStyle, div.BodyCopyStyle {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Style"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Style Char"; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:X-NONE; mso-fareast-language:X-NONE;}span.BodyCopyStyleChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Style Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Style"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:X-NONE; mso-fareast-language:X-NONE;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

