# Ancient Half-Green Dragon Spirit Naga

**description**: At first glance, the fearsome half-green dragon spirit naga appears as an ordinary spirit naga until it unfurls its wings. This hybrid monster has the hooded neck of a naga and the signature crested spine of a green dragon running along the back of its emerald crimson-striped serpentine body. Insidious Masterminds. The half-green dragon spirit naga is a dangerous, powerful, and depraved creature, gaining the guile and deceitfulness of its draconic parent and the intelligence and conceit of its naga lineage. It spends almost all of its immortal life plotting and scheming against its enemies and allies. It trusts no one and treats everyone as pawns to sacrifice. In fact, the half-green dragon spirit naga takes great pleasure in secretly corrupting and manipulating others and sowing discord amongst its rivals to further its goals. While it would not shy away from a physical confrontation, it prefers to let others do its battles for it. Devious Tactician. A half-green dragon spirit naga will only enter into combat willingly after it has assessed its foes, determined their strengths and weaknesses, and studied the terrain. It will always employ deception and misdirection through its magical abilities to weaken and confuse its enemies before engaging physically and going in for the kill. Master Arcanists. Older half-green dragon spirit nagas are very accomplished and deadly wizards that can match the arcane might of archmages. Only the most powerful and prepared adventurers should even dare enter the lair of an ancient one. A Half-Green Dragon Spirit Naga's Lair A half-green dragon spirit naga usually resides in the ruins of an ancient civilization, hidden deep within a gloomy forest or remote jungle. The challenge rating of a half-green dragon spirit naga increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the half-dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the half-dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The half-dragon chooses up to three points it can see within its lair. Grasping, prickly root tendrils and thorny vines sprout from the ground in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on each point. Each creature other than the half-dragon in those areas must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling vegetation for 1 minute. A creature that starts its turn restrained takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage and is poisoned until the start of its next turn. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 15 Strength check, escaping from the grasping vegetation on a success. The vegetation can also be destroyed to end the effect. Each grasping vegetation has AC 10, 15 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, poison, and psychic damage. The grasping vegetation lasts until the half-dragon uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the half-dragon dies. The half-dragon casts mirror image , requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability. It lasts for 1 minute, until the half-dragon uses this lair action again, or when the half-dragon dies. The half-dragon chooses a point it can see within its lair. A cloud of toxic gas explodes in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point. Each creature within that area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (3d6) poison damage and is poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round. A poisoned creature is paralyzed. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Amphibious. The half-dragon can breathe air and water. Immortal Nature. The half-dragon doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the half-dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rejuvenation. If it dies, the half-dragon returns to life in 1d6 days and regains all its hit points. Only a wish spell can prevent this trait from functioning. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and one Tail attack or uses Spellcasting. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 58 (13d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the half-dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the half-dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the half-dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Poison Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales poisonous gas in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 45 (13d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The half-dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring only verbal components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks): At will: mage hand, minor illusion, ray of frost (4d8) 2/day each: dimension door, dominate person, lightning bolt 1/day each: blight, delayed blast fireball, detect thoughts, disintegrate, dispel magic, forcecage, greater invisibility, hold person, power word stun, time stop Bonus Actions Misty Step (2/Day). The half-dragon casts misty step using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability. Reactions Counterspell (1/Day). The half-dragon casts counterspell using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability. Shield (4/Day). The half-dragon casts shield using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability. Legendary Actions The half-dragon can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The half-dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect . The half-dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail. The half-dragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 15 feet of the half-dragon must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The half-dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The half-dragon uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

