# Angel, Shrouded

**description**: The winged, gray-cloaked figure holding a long, golden blade emanates an aura of reverence and malice in equal measure as its eyes burn with blue fire. Though no less noble and dedicated than other celestials, shrouded angels understand that evil must be destroyed no matter the method. These angels throw aside the inflexible adherence to the law in order to serve as heaven's hand of justice, combating the darkness with rogue-like skill and an assassin's blade. Judge and Jury. Virtually all shrouded angels consider themselves the final arbiter of justice. They are not content to allow courts of law to mete out punishment, taking such matters into their own hands. Last Resort. Shrouded angels are direct agents of good, winging their way in to strike down evil, especially those that have managed to evade justice for their crimes on more than one occasion. Such villains can expect a visit from a shrouded angel, who will give them one last chance to atone or face final judgement. Angelic Poison. The shrouded angel's weapon attacks are magical, and its weapons are coated with a radiant poison. Creatures with resistance or immunity to poison or the poisoned condition can be affected by the angel's poison. Such creatures have advantage on saving throws against the angel's poison. Divine Awareness. The shrouded angel knows if it hears a lie. Evasion. If the shrouded angel is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the angel instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Immortal Nature. The shrouded angel doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Magic Resistance. The shrouded angel has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The shrouded angel makes three Justicar's Blade or Justicar's Blast attacks. Justicar's Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned. The poisoned condition lasts until it is removed by the lesser restoration spell or similar magic. Justicar's Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (4d8 + 6) radiant damage. Spellcasting. The shrouded angel casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: bane , bless , locate creature 3/day each: invisibility (self only), healing word (as a 5th-level spell), nondetection Reactions Executioner's Judgment. When a creature poisoned by the shrouded angel starts its turn, the angel demands the target repent. If it doesn't repent, it must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. If it fails, it is reduced to 0 hp. If it succeeds, it takes 22 (5d8) radiant damage. If the target repents, its next action is chosen by the angel, as if it failed a saving throw against the command spell: “Draw Nigh” (approach), “Clasp Hands in Prayer” (drop), “Seek Redemption” (flee), “Be Penitent” (grovel), or “In Stillness Hear the Truth” (halt). Once the shrouded angel uses this reaction, it must deal poison damage to a poisoned target before using this feature again.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

