# Angel, Pelagic Deva

**description**: This androgynous humanoid angel has a large-finned fishlike tail and fine scales with a brilliantly hued striped pattern cover its body. Colorful, living-coral armor protects the angel's torso and head. Pelagic devas are sent to the Material Plane to protect the good and righteous from threats posed by fell marine creatures such as scheming aboleths, greedy dragon turtles, and uncaring krakens. They prefer to explore deeper waters ranging from 3,000 to 13,000 feet below sea level, but they enter the shallows or the trenchant depths when evil needs to be overcome. Beacons of Hope. Pelagic devas are renowned for their pleasant and loquacious demeanors, and they fall silent or take on a grim expression only when they encounter creatures that revel in the suffering of others. Unless they are set to a specific task, they range far and wide to assist stranded mariners, troubled aquatic communities, and beleaguered sea life. Except in the case of fiends, pelagic devas assess each intelligent creature they encounter as an individual and don't condemn whole crews or communities for the evil actions of individual members. Amphibious. The pelagic deva can breathe air and water. Angelic Weapons. The pelagic deva's weapon attacks are magical. When the deva hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). Immortal Nature. The pelagic deva doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Living Coral Armor. The pelagic deva's armor is made of living coral. If the deva's armor is damaged, such as from a black pudding's Pseudopod attack, the armor fully repairs itself within 1 minute, provided it wasn't destroyed. Magic Resistance. The pelagic deva has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The pelagic deva makes three Trident attacks. Trident. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) radiant damage. If the pelagic deva makes a ranged attack with its trident, the trident returns to its hands at the start of its next turn. Transforming Touch (5/Day). The pelagic deva can magically polymorph a willing creature into a giant octopus , hunter shark , or plesiosaurus. The transformation lasts 8 hours, until the target uses a bonus action to transform back into its true form, or until the target dies. Any equipment the target is wearing or carrying is absorbed into its new form. In the new form, the target retains its alignment and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores as well as its ability to speak. Its other statistics are replaced by those of its new form, and it gains any capabilities that the new form has but it lacks. Bonus Actions Anoxic Aura (1/Day). The pelagic deva removes oxygen from the nearby water for 1 minute. Each creature that requires oxygen to live (including air-breathing creatures under the effects of the water breathing spell) and that starts its turn within 20 feet of the pelagic deva must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or begin suffocating. The deva never suffers the effects of this aura and can choose any number of creatures in the area to ignore its effects.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

