# Angel, Psychopomp

**description**: A skeletal figure in a gray cloak steps from the shadows. In the light, its bony aspect is replaced with muscled flesh and pale skin. When its work is done, it spreads its gray wings and disappears with the sound of dozens of birds taki ng flight. Psychopomps are created by deities to collect the souls of the faithful after they have been judged and carry them on to their final reward. These angels are single-minded in their devotion to their creators and their purpose, and they suffer no impediments while they go about their divine task. Despite their grim-faced countenances, psychopomps are interesting conversationalists that enjoy clever wordplay and challenging tests of logic and reason. Saviors of the Faithful. In addition to gathering and delivering souls after they have been judged, psychopomps descend into the Lower Planes and retrieve those wayward souls lost to fiendish promises. Psychopomps retain the complete knowledge of celestial and infernal law, and they are empowered with their patron's authority to forcibly unmake infernal contracts when they can't trick, bully, or otherwise manipulate a fiend into giving up its claim on a mortal soul. Bestial Countenance. Psychopomps that serve deities of death and the afterlife often have the head and other features of beasts favored by their patrons, such as jackals, owls, or ravens. Death's Accomplice. When the psychopomp deals radiant damage, it can choose to deal necrotic damage instead. Fiendish Countenance. When traveling the planes of existence demons and devils are native to, such as Hell or the Abyss, the psychopomp appears to be a Fiend of a type native to that plane. Until it reveals its true nature (no action required) or uses its Divine Dictum, Spirit Usher, or Unmake Contract features, it is undetectable as a Celestial. Immortal Nature. The psychopomp doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Magic Resistance. The psychopomp has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The psychopomp makes two Lantern Flail attacks. Lantern Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) radiant damage. A fiend or undead hit by this attack takes an extra 10 (3d6) radiant damage. Divine Dictum (Recharge 5-6). The psychopomp unleashes a small portion of its creator's influence. Each creature of the psychopomp's choice that it can see within 30 feet of it must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Each charmed, frightened, or possessed creature of the psychopomp's choice within 60 feet of it can choose to end the condition. Unmake Contract (1/Day). The psychopomp can project the pure power and majesty of its patron deity. A creature the psychopomp can see or hear within 60 feet of it is freed of all liens upon its soul. Bonus Actions Spirit Usher (3/Day). The psychopomp wards a creature with divine power for 1 hour. While warded, Celestials, Fiends, and Undead have disadvantage on attack rolls against the creature, and the creature can't be charmed, frightened, or possessed by them. In addition, the warded creature gains 11 temporary hit points and, if slain, can't be raised as an Undead for 1 year.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

