# Angel, Archangel Iilari'jil

**description**: A raging sphere of golden flame roils above the battlefield, dozens of giant arms reaching out from it. The arms shift their appearance from moment to moment, representing humanoids and giants of all species. Motes of golden flame orbit the archangel's central mass, speeding along their trajectories while it is motionless and slowing down as it moves about the battlefield. Iilari'jil (Eel-ARR-ee-yell), the Fire of Forgotten Hope, is a patron of the besieged and warriors who have lost hope. They are an active celestial that appears frequently on the Material Plane, though their visits rarely last longer than a minute. Iilari'jil is more widely known than many archangels due to the frequency of their appearances and has gained more popularity as a result. They have more mortal adherents than most of their peers, and they have inspired entire orders of righteous warriors devoted to the cause of breaking sieges and delivering the good and innocent from hopeless-seeming situations. Fire of Hope. Though primarily viewed as a celestial of battles and warfare, Iilari'jil hears the pleas and prayers of all mortals who are under siege. They are as likely to assist in ending the unjust blockade of a busy harbor as they are to help a single mortal trying to protect her home from invaders. Unlike some celestial paragons, Iilari'jil is not reluctant to take an active hand in mortal affairs and smites the enemies of those they are protecting with impunity. Iilari'jil's Lair Iilari'jil is rarely afforded time to rest and doesn't have a devoted home in the Upper Planes. Iilari'jil treats whatever battlefield they are fighting on as their lair, and their sheer presence has a dramatic effect on the landscape. Lair Actions When fighting on any battlefield, Iilari'jil can invoke their nature as a patron of warriors and the besieged to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Iilari'jil takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Iilari'jil can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Adverse Terrain. The ground cracks and crumbles in a 30-foot radius centered on a point Iilari'jil can see within 120 feet of them. The area is difficult terrain for hostile creatures and lasts until Iilari'jil uses this lair action again or until the archangel dies. Blinding Burst. Radiance bursts from a point Iilari'jil can see within 90 feet of them. Each hostile creature within 20 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. A blinded creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Luminous Blessing. Iilari'jil's form illuminates, shedding bright light in a 60-foot radius and dim light for an additional 60 feet and infusing nearby weapons with divine energy. The light is sunlight and dispels magical darkness created by a spell of 6th level or lower or by a creature with a challenge rating of 22 or lower. The weapon attacks of friendly creatures in the bright light are magical. The light lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. Angelic Weapons. Iilari'jil's weapon attacks are magical. When Iilari'jil hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 6d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). Divine Awareness. Iilari'jil knows if it hears a lie. Immortal Nature. Iilari'jil doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Iilari'jil fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Iilari'jil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Siege Monster. Iilari'jil deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack. Iliari'jil makes three Radiant Fists or Radiant Blasts attacks. Radiant Fists. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (5d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 27 (6d8) radiant damage. Radiant Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +13 to hit, range 150 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (5d8 + 6) radiant damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage. Turn the Tide (Recharge 6). A carpet of golden flame erupts from the ground on a point Iilari'jil can see within 120 feet of them. Each hostile creature within 20 feet of the point must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 56 (16d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Each friendly creature within 20 feet of the point regains 28 (8d6) hp. Rouse to Action (5/Day). Iilari'jil inspires up to 4 creatures they can see within 60 feet of them. For 1 minute, whenever a target makes an ability check, attack roll, or saving throw, it can add a d6 to the roll, provided it can see or hear Iilari'jil. A creature can benefit from a Rouse to Action die only once each turn. Spellcasting. Iilari'jil casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21): At will: command, guidance, heroism, true strike 3/day each: haste, plane shift Legendary Actions Iilari'jil can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Iilari'jil regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Fly. Iilari'jil flies up to half their flying speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Action). Iilari'jil uses Spellcasting. Celestial Shield (Costs 2 Actions). Iilari'jil creates a shield of radiance around a creature of their choice within 30 feet of them. The target's AC increases by 4 until the start of Iilari'jil's next turn. Radiant Fists (Costs 2 Actions). Iilari'jil makes one Radiant Fists attack. Restore Vigor (Costs 3 Actions). Iilari'jil ends the blinded, charmed, deafened, paralyzed, petrified, or poisoned conditions on all creatures of their choice within 15 feet of them. Revive (Costs 3 Actions). Iilari'jil returns a creature they can see within 30 feet of them to life with 10 (3d6) hp, provided the target has been dead no longer than 1 minute.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

