# Angel, Zirnitran

**description**: Six black-feathered wings extend from the back of this draconic angel. Scrolls scribed with designs of sacred geometry and draconic script hang from its belt. Its scales shine in the light with the beauty of nebulas and slowly alternate in color, reflecting the beauty of all dragonkind. The angel's eyes smolder like lidded suns, and the magic it wields promises absolution for the penitent or obliteration for the wicked. Celestials in servitude to the gods of dragons, the zirnitra are powerful angels oathbound to keeping divine secrets safe from hellish fiends, far-reaching planar outsiders, and the hubris of mortals. Armed with claws anointed in blessed oil and a truly fearsome command of draconic sorcery and angelic magic, zirnitran are more than a match for most beings. Furthermore, their presence diffuses the risks of chance, their eyes reflect the might of ancient dragons, and their sacred flame breath melts away magic wards as readily as heretics. Scholars of Old Magic. With eons of time to pass, zirnitran angels study the entire breadth of draconic history, including the creation and use of magic. This understanding of powerful magical forces fosters a deep-seated distrust of the zirnitra in their celestial brethren. Many celestials believe their knowledge and mastery of magic border dangerously close to blasphemy, but the zirnitra have yet to overstep their bounds or use their knowledge to defy the gods. Some celestials suspect the gods allow the zirnitran angels to retain their mastery so they might better aid the eldest dragon when it wakes from its slumber and commences the end of times. Witnesses to Draconian Plots. From their heavenly perches, zirnitran angels watch, observe, and chronicle the affairs of dragons. Charged with the monumental task of recording every dragon and drake's hatching, draconic plots unfolding, the amassing of hoards, the rise and fall of ancient civilizations, and the coronations of kobold kings, the zirnitra hold fast to their divine mandates as the historians and recordkeepers of the cosmos. Annals of Life and Fire. Inscribed into every zirnitran angel's seemingly endless scrolls are their holy accounts, dutifully kept in draconic script, angelic seals, sacred geometry, and esoteric formulae. The most devious of fiends—abyssal, infernal, and mortal alike—believe the scrolls of a zirnitran are a divine key. With the scrolls of a zirnitran angel in hand, these foul agents believe they can unlock access to the most vulnerable parts of the heavens and the secrets therein. More than one plot has been hatched through time to take such holy scripts, by deceit or by force. Angelic Weapons. The zirnitran's weapon attacks are magical. When the zirnitran hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 5d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). Aura of Balance. The zirnitran emits an aura of balance, affecting chance and probability around it. While a creature is within 20 feet of the zirnitran, it can't have advantage or disadvantage on any ability check, attack roll, or saving throw. This aura also affects the zirnitran. At the start of each of its turns, the zirnitran chooses whether this aura is active. Divine Awareness. The zirnitran knows if it hears a lie. Dragon Watcher. The zirnitran has advantage on saving throws against dragon breath weapons. The zirnitran takes no damage if it succeeds on such a saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Hardened Scales. Any critical hit against the zirnitran becomes a normal hit. Immortal Nature. The zirnitran doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the zirnitran fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The zirnitran has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The zirnitran uses Glimpse from the Heavens. It then makes three Anointed Claws or Draconic Blast attacks. Anointed Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage and 22 (5d8) radiant damage. Draconic Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +13 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 29 (5d8 + 7) radiant damage. The zirnitran can choose to deal acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison damage instead of radiant. Glimpse from the Heavens. The zirnitran's eyes flash with the majesty of a solar eclipse. Each creature of the zirnitran's choice that is within 60 feet of the zirnitran and that can see it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the zirnitran's Glimpse of the Heavens for the next 24 hours. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is also blinded. The blindness lasts until it is removed by a greater restoration spell or similar magic. Sacred Flame Breath (Recharge 5-6). The zirnitran exhales holy fire in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) fire damage and 33 (6d10) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, the holy fire burns away magic, ending any spell of 7th-level or lower in the area. Secrets of the Hidden Hoard (2/Day). The zirnitran draws upon ages of study and observation and casts one spell of 8th level or lower that appears on the cleric or wizard spell list. The zirnitran casts the spell as an action, regardless of the spell's normal casting time. Spellcasting. The zirnitran casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21): At will: detect evil and good , invisibility (self only) , legend lore, thaumaturgy 3/day each: dispel evil and good , geas (as an action) 1/day each: antimagic field, plane shift Reactions Six-Scaled Aegis. When the zirnitran takes damage, it gains resistance to that type of damage, including to the triggering damage, for 1 minute or until it uses this reaction again. Legendary Actions The zirnitran can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The zirnitran regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The zirnitran knows the location of each dragon and each creature with a strong connection to dragons, such as a sorcerer with the draconic bloodline, within 120 feet of it. Move. The zirnitran angel flies up to half its flying speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The zirnitran makes one Anointed Claws or Draconic Blast attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The zirnitran uses Spellcasting. Under Black Wings (Costs 3 Actions). The zirnitran creates a magical, feathered shield around itself or another creature it can see within 120 feet of it. The target gains a +2 bonus to AC and 20 temporary hp until the end of the zirnitran's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

