# Angel, Archangel Hala'ath

**description**: An enormous obelisk of clear quartz etched with runes in a language known only to the gods floats serenely along the ground. Gears turn behind the slabs of crystal, eternally powering some ineffable machine. An unblinking, eye-shaped rune hovers above the monolithic body, and four titanium wings support the obelisk's base. Hala'ath, the Sentinel of Progress, guides the mortal peoples of the Material Plane into a glorious future. The archangel usually acts from afar, preferring to send its haladrons to guide and assist those who have requested aid from it. It believes progress due to direct intercession is not true advancement for the person or species requiring it. Hala'ath is viewed as aloof and impersonal, even by its peers. Oppressor's Bane. Hala'ath is a patron of inventors and builders, but its portfolio also includes societal advancement. The archangel sees all thinking creatures as equal in the eyes of the gods of goodness and order, and it stands in firm opposition to creatures exhibiting narrow or regressive thinking. Hala'ath is more likely to appear on the Material Plane in places where oppression has overcome reason than it is to intervene in a place where technology has gone awry. Builder's Boon. Creators and intellectual explorers who say a prayer to Hala'ath as they embark on a new project sometimes find themselves aided by a handful of haladrons during the most difficult sections of work. Mechanical Servitors. Hala'ath's favored servitors, haladrons, resemble a toothed cog with a pair of steel wings. An unblinking steel eye sits in the center of each haladron's body. On the Material Plane, haladrons are often sent to assist inventors and activists. They rarely make suggestions, favoring the exploration of an idea over the final execution. Haladrons can be encountered en masse in Gyrespring Fortress, where they tirelessly carry out Hala'ath's dictates. Hala'ath's Lair In the Upper Planes, Hala'ath resides in Gyrespring Fortress, a shining marvel of clockwork and dusky quartz. The fort is alive at all hours with the sound of hammers on metal, winding gears, and industry of all types. Lair Actions When in Gyrespring Fortress, Hala'ath can alter the environment just as an inventor can adjust a creation in progress. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Hala'ath takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Hala'ath can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Empower Creation. Hala'ath empowers the act of creation in one of the rooms of its lair. The duration of conjuration spells cast in the empowered area increases by 1 hour, as long as the spellcaster maintains concentration on it. If a spell's duration is instantaneous, it can't be increased. Gear Burst. Furiously spinning gears form a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point Hala'ath can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in the area must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Constructs in the area have disadvantage on the saving throw. Imprison. Manacles snake out of the walls, floor, and ceiling within 120 feet of Hala'ath. The manacles grab up to 5 creatures Hala'ath can see within range. Each target must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be grappled by the manacles (escape DC 20). A creature that is still grappled at the end of its next turn is teleported into a cell in Gyrespring Fortress's dungeon, provided the cell is within 500 feet of Hala'ath. If no cell is within 500 feet of Hala'ath, the creature is teleported to an unoccupied space on the ground up to 500 feet away from Hala'ath. Angelic Weapons. Hala'ath's weapon attacks are magical. When Hala'ath hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 6d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). Divine Assistance. A creature of good alignment that starts its turn within 120 feet of Hala'ath can take the Help action as a bonus action. Divine Awareness. Hala'ath knows if it hears a lie. Flyby. Hala'ath doesn't provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach. Immortal Nature. Hala'ath doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Hala'ath fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Hala'ath has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spirit of Fortification. While within 500 feet of Hala'ath, objects and structures have a damage threshold of 10. If an object or structure has a damage threshold higher than 10, its damage threshold is doubled instead. Actions Multiattack. Hala'ath makes three Titanium Wings or Bolt of Law attacks. Titanium Wings. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 27 (6d8) radiant damage. Bolt of Law. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 150 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (4d8 + 7) radiant damage plus 18 (4d8) thunder damage. Righteous Blast (Recharge 5-6). Radiant energy erupts from a point Hala'ath can see within 150 feet of it. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) radiant and 36 (8d8) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures of lawful or good alignment have advantage on the saving throw, and creatures of lawful good alignment are immune to the damage from Righteous Blast. Legendary Actions Hala'ath can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Hala'ath regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. Hala'ath moves up to half its speed. Summon Haladrons. Hala'ath summons 2d4 haladrons. The haladrons appear in an unoccupied space within 150 feet of Hala'ath and act on its turn. Once summoned, the haladrons remain on the same plane as Hala'ath for 1 hour, until destroyed, or until Hala'ath dies. Hala'ath can have no more than 20 haladrons summoned in this way at one time. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). Hala'ath makes one Titanium Wings or Bolt of Law attack. Glorious Surge (Costs 3 Actions). Hala'ath bolsters up to two creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Each target regains 20 (4d8 + 2) hp and has advantage on its next attack roll, saving throw, or ability check.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Lawful Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

