# Angel, Fidele

**description**: What appears to be a mated pair of animals changes shape into two celestials. Their humanoid forms still bear some marks of their animal selves. They move in perfect harmony. Fidele angels form from souls so devoted to each other that their love transcends death. Friends to Lovers. Fideles are charged with exhorting mortals to respect the bonds of partnership. They assist lovers facing obstacles and punish the enemies of love. Where there is a conflict between two cultures’ laws in love, they prefer the result that keeps the beloved together. Quiet Diplomats. They prefer diplomacy to force and, despite the urgency of love, they’ve been known to live secretly among mortals for years or decades while waging quiet campaigns against social mores and cultural norms that keep love from achieving its full potential. Rage of Passion. When love is denied, or when kept apart, fidele angels can enter towering rages and an anger born of passionate righteousness. Traits Shapechange: The angel can change between winged celestial form, its original mortal form, and that of a Medium-sized eagle. Its statistics are the same in each form, with the exception of its attacks in eagle form. Ever Touching: Fidele angels maintain awareness of their mate’s disposition and health. Damage taken by one is split evenly between both, with the original target of the attack taking the extra point when damage doesn’t divide evenly. Any other baneful effect, such as ability damage, affects both equally. Innate Spellcasting: The angel’s innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: guidance, light, purify food and drink, spare the dying 1/day: bless, daylight, detect evil and good, enhance ability, hallow, protection from evil and good 3/day: cure wounds, scorching ray (5 rays) Magic Resistance: The angel has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons: The angel’s weapon attacks are magical while it is in eagle form. To My Lover’s Side: If separated from its mate, each fidele angel can use both plane shift and teleport 1/day to reunite. Unshakeable Fidelity: Fidele angels are never voluntarily without their partners. No magical effect or power can cause a fidele angel to act against its mate, and no charm or domination effect can cause them to leave their side or to change their feelings of love and loyalty toward each other. Actions Multiattack: The angel makes two longsword attacks or two longbow attacks; in eagle form, it instead makes two talon attacks and one beak attack. +1 Longsword (One-Handed; Mortal or Angel Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage. +1 Longsword (Two-Handed; Mortal or Angel Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 11 (1d10 + 6) slashing damage. +1 Longbow (Mortal or Angel Form Only): Ranged Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range range 150/600 ft, one target. Hit : 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage. Beak (Eagle Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 9 (1d8 + 5 ) piercing damage. Talons (Eagle Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 12 (2d6 + 5 ) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful Good
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

