# Angel of Blood

**description**: This fallen angel’s stringy white hair fades to rustred at its ends, and its eyes are a sunken black. Its once-fair skin has turned a bruised purple, and its hands are burned and cracked with lines of hellfire. In them, it holds a wickedly serrated greatsword made of rusted iron. Aside from heavy iron shoulder pauldrons and greaves, it wears no armor, but it radiates an aura of psychic pain that causes any would-be attackers to suffer at their own hands. History. Though somewhat a misnomer, these fallen angels once served a deity of Life, and were cast out for their attempt to destroy Death, without which Life felt it would have no meaning to its worshippers. The name “angel of blood” comes from the tales of their fall, when Life tore its power - their blood - from their bodies and it streamed from their eyes like tears, staining their skin crimson. Now, these angels serve their ringleader, Vacenar, whom Life has dubbed “God-Traitor”, as they search the realms for new purpose. Tactics. Angels of blood fight with savage but intelligent abandon. When their Blood Frenzy activates, they use it to the greatest effect they can, but prefer to flee if they seem to be at risk of death. Their primary tactic is to inflict Jagged Cuts with their greatsword on as many creatures as possible, saving Bloodletting for a chance to regain hit points or using it as a finishing blow against a target. When possible, they makes use of their fly speed to stay out of melee range in between turns. Traits Aura of Pain. Once per turn, when the angel takes damage from an attack, the attacker takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage. Blood Frenzy. While its hit points are equal to or below half their maximum (75), or as long as it has an Injury of Handicap III severity or higher, the angel gains a +1 bonus to attack rolls and deals an additional 7 (2d6) damage with its attacks and abilities of the same type normally dealt by those attacks or abilities. Jagged Cuts. A creature with a stack of Jagged Cuts loses 3 (1d6) hit points at the start of their turn from their bleeding wounds. Bleeding stacks up to 2 times (2d6 hit points at the start of their turn). For each additional stack beyond 2 they would take, the damage from the action that inflicted it is considered 5 higher for the purposes of inflicting an Injury. A creature can make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check as an action to stop the bleeding and remove all stacks of Jagged Cuts. Magic Resistance. The angel has advantage on saving throws against magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The angel makes two melee attacks with its Jagged Greatsord or Hellfire Claw. Hellfire Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) fire damage, and the target must make a DC 19 Athletics or Acrobatics check or become grappled. A creature grappled by the angel takes 3 (1d6) fire damage at the start of each of the angel’s turns. While grappling a creature, the angel has disadvantage on attack rolls with its Jagged Greatsword. Jagged Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8+5) slashing damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or gain a stack of Jagged Cuts (see the Jagged Cuts trait). Bloodletting (Recharge 5-6). The angel chooses a creature within 30 feet. That creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 27 (8d6) force damage as its veins and arteries rupture across its body, sending blood spattering towards the angel. This also applies two stacks of Jagged Cuts (see the Jagged Cuts trait), and if the angel is at less than half its maximum hit points, it regains 10 hit points, up to a maximum of half its maximum hit points. On a successful save the creature takes half damage, and Jagged Cuts is not applied. A creature that is reduced to 0 hit points by a failed save against this ability is considered to have taken an additional 20 points of damage when determining the Injury severity.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

