# Angulotl Seer

**description**: This river water taste funny to you, Sir Rogar? Maxidroga, Deceased Squire of Sir Rogar Found in freshwater swamps, rivers, and rainforests, angulotls (ang-gwa-LAH-tulls) are diminutive, brightly colored amphibious humanoids. Rather than defending their settlements and breeding grounds against hostile creatures, these poisonous frog folk prefer to establish their homes in places that are nigh-impossible for other humanoids to find, such as underwater caves and other enclosed spaces only accessible by water. They are happy to hide and watch a gaggle of noisy adventurers stumble past the entrance to an angulotl clutch without realizing it. Though angulotls prefer to avoid combat, when they’re threatened or pressed, they turn deadly. Deadly Toxins. Angulotls are poisonous creatures, which suits their preference to avoid aggression—they don’t need to be! The contact toxin secreted by their skin gives them an edge in close combat; they also distill this toxin into more potent forms for coating blades and tipping darts. Indicator Species. Angulotl physiology is delicately balanced, and it doesn’t take much to upset it. While toxins don’t kill them, they are still affected by pollutants in their waters. Ongoing contamination of their environment can corrupt angulotls, making them aggressive, confused, and angry. Most pollution-corrupted angulotls eventually attack any creature who crosses their path—even other angulotls! Runoff from magical experimentation seems to affect them the most … and sometimes gives them strange abilities. Moisture Dependent. Angulotls breathe through their skin, but they need to stay damp or they suffocate. They often avoid travel in very dry areas, and they prefer not to stray far from a source of freshwater … unless it’s raining. Angulotl Tactics Angulotls prefer to battle their foes in partially aquatic environments that include lots of vegetation or other places to hide. This allows the angulotls to leap from the water, attack, and then retreat into the murk or bushes. Marshes, swamps, and jungle rivers make ideal showdown locations. An angulotl slink can give combat an interesting twist if they grab a magic item away from a chracter with their Tongue Nab attack then retreat, changing a deadly showdown into a dynamic chase. Just give the characters a fighting chance to get back any stolen goods. Angulotl Magic Items Angulotl value magic items that enhanced their low Strength, such as gauntlets of ogre power and potions of giant strength. Some angulotl seers take great pleasure in brewing potions of growth and quaffing them whenever they need to intimidate a threat. Traits Amphibious. The seer can breathe air and water. Third Eye. Creatures within 30 feet of the seer can’t hide from the seer. Creatures who can’t be targeted by divination magic are immune to this effect. Toxiferous. When a creature hits the seer with a melee attack while within 5 feet of them or touches the seer, that creature takes 2 (1d4) poison damage. Actions Acid Grasp. Melee Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) acid damage. If the target is a creature and they attack the seer before the start of the seer’s next turn, the target takes 14 (4d6) acid damage. Refulgent Beam. The seer fires two magical beams of radiant energy, each beam targeting a creature the seer can see within 120 feet of them. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (3d8) radiant damage and shed dim light in a 10-foot radius for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). While shedding light in this way, attack rolls against the target have advantage, the target can’t benefit from being invisible, and they can’t take the Hide action. Noxious Bubble (1/Day). The seer creates a 5-foot-radius sphere filled with toxic gas in an unoccupied space they can see within 60 feet of them. If undisturbed, this bubble lasts for 1 minute then dissipates harmlessly. If a creature attacks the bubble, touches it, enters its space, or otherwise disturbs it, the bubble bursts, and each creature within 15 feet of it must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Psychedelic Drone (1/Day). Each enemy within 60 feet of the seer who can hear them must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic damage and be dazed for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Bonus Actions Hop. The seer jumps a number of feet up to their walking speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Angulotl)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

