# Angulotl Yegg (PB 5)

**description**: This river water taste funny to you, Sir Rogar? Maxidroga, Deceased Squire of Sir Rogar Found in freshwater swamps, rivers, and rainforests, angulotls (ang-gwa-LAH-tulls) are diminutive, brightly colored amphibious humanoids. Rather than defending their settlements and breeding grounds against hostile creatures, these poisonous frog folk prefer to establish their homes in places that are nigh-impossible for other humanoids to find, such as underwater caves and other enclosed spaces only accessible by water. They are happy to hide and watch a gaggle of noisy adventurers stumble past the entrance to an angulotl clutch without realizing it. Though angulotls prefer to avoid combat, when they’re threatened or pressed, they turn deadly. Deadly Toxins. Angulotls are poisonous creatures, which suits their preference to avoid aggression—they don’t need to be! The contact toxin secreted by their skin gives them an edge in close combat; they also distill this toxin into more potent forms for coating blades and tipping darts. Indicator Species. Angulotl physiology is delicately balanced, and it doesn’t take much to upset it. While toxins don’t kill them, they are still affected by pollutants in their waters. Ongoing contamination of their environment can corrupt angulotls, making them aggressive, confused, and angry. Most pollution-corrupted angulotls eventually attack any creature who crosses their path—even other angulotls! Runoff from magical experimentation seems to affect them the most … and sometimes gives them strange abilities. Moisture Dependent. Angulotls breathe through their skin, but they need to stay damp or they suffocate. They often avoid travel in very dry areas, and they prefer not to stray far from a source of freshwater … unless it’s raining. Angulotl Tactics Angulotls prefer to battle their foes in partially aquatic environments that include lots of vegetation or other places to hide. This allows the angulotls to leap from the water, attack, and then retreat into the murk or bushes. Marshes, swamps, and jungle rivers make ideal showdown locations. An angulotl slink can give combat an interesting twist if they grab a magic item away from a chracter with their Tongue Nab attack then retreat, changing a deadly showdown into a dynamic chase. Just give the characters a fighting chance to get back any stolen goods. Angulotl Magic Items Angulotl value magic items that enhanced their low Strength, such as gauntlets of ogre power and potions of giant strength. Some angulotl seers take great pleasure in brewing potions of growth and quaffing them whenever they need to intimidate a threat. Traits Amphibious. The angulotl yegg can breathe air and water. Signature Attack (Poison Knife). Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 1d4 plus PB piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Beginning at 7th level, the yegg can make this attack twice, instead of once, when they take the Attack action on their turn. Features 3rd Level: Death from Above! (3/Day). As a bonus action, the yegg jumps up to their walking speed without provoking opportunity attacks. If they leap over an enemy during this jump, the yegg can make a signature attack with advantage against that enemy. On a hit, this attack deals an extra PB piercing damage. 5th Level: Lay Low (3/Day). When the yegg hits a creature with a signature attack while hidden, the yegg can use their reaction to remain hidden. 7th Level: Excoriating Acid (3/Day). As an action, the yegg throws a flask of acid at a point they can see within 20 feet of them. The flask shatters, and each creature within 10 feet of that point must make a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw, taking PBd10 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Angulotl)
- Source: custom
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Retainer

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

