# Animal Lord, Queen of Cats

**description**: The taller-than-average woman steps out of the shadows, her gown whispering. Her head is that of a sleek, black cat with gleaming, green eyes. The nails on her fingers and toes are long, curved, and sharp. Khastiri is the Queen of Cats, the Shadow Guardian, and Herald of the Moon. She moves, often unseen, in all walks of mortal and fey life. Her true form is that of a statuesque woman nearly 10 feet tall with the head of a black cat. She prefers to move about at night under the moon. Her wanderings take her to places where danger and unsuspecting people are likely to cross paths, and her curious nature often leads her in unexpected directions. She carries the radiance and purity of moonlight into the dark, wielding it as a weapon as keen as her claws against her foes. Protector in the Dark. Those who strike out in search of adventure learn quickly that the shadows and crevices of the world hide many dangers. Most people have no defense against the worst things that prowl the darkness, the things that slip into the world from the places beyond. The Queen of Cats and her followers stand in opposition to those dark influences. Through the ages, her midnight prowling in cat form, and subsequent battles with creatures from the outer darkness, have given rise to the folk tales of cats protecting their owners from evil spirits. Diplomat and Spy. The Queen of Cats saunters through the world slipping from one stratum of society to another with grace and ease. Either as an unassuming black cat in back alleys or a woman of bearing regal enough to blend seamlessly in imperial courts, she finds forces of corruption and darkness wherever they lurk. Befitting her fluid mobility through nearly any population, she often carries word from deities or powerful beings tied to the moon. Rumor holds that she is a confidant, or possibly a lover, of the the Moonlit King (Tome of Beasts). The Queen of Cats is one of the few creatures who can slip through the twisted mazes surrounding his home. If his worsening madness is any concern to her, she doesn't show it. The Queen of Cats' Lair The Queen of Cats lives in a luxurious extra dimensional palace called Bubastal. The entrance to the palace is difficult to find, often hidden in alleys, sewer entrances, or normally-empty alcoves between buildings. The only constant is the doorway is always in a city. The palace itself is full of carpets and soft furniture, cushions, and many potted plants. The air smells of fragrant herbs, particularly catnip, and incense. Small platforms, steps, and walkways make the entire palace an inquisitive cat's paradise, and all the décor features tassels and other dangling adornments. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Queen of Cats takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; she can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: The Queen of Cats sounds a growling cry. She summons 4 tigers or 8 panthers in unoccupied spaces she can see. The creatures act immediately and on initiative count 20 in subsequent rounds. The creatures follow the Queen's commands and remain for 1 hour or until the Queen uses this lair action again. The Queen of Cats creates an area of magical darkness in a 20-foot-radius centered on a point she can see within 120 feet. This action works like the darkness spell except it dispels light created by a 4th level or lower spell if it overlaps an area of such light. The darkness lasts until the Queen of Cats dies, or until she uses this lair action again. The Queen of Cats creates a magical beam of moonlight in a 15-foot-radius, 30-foot-high cylinder centered on a point she can see within 120 feet. Each creature in the area becomes vulnerable to radiant damage until initiative count 20 on the following round. Regional Effects The region containing the Queen of Cats' lair is warped by her magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The area within 1 mile of the lair attracts hundreds of stray cats. The Queen of Cats can choose to see or hear through the senses of any cat in this area and can speak through it while doing so. Shadows grow deeper within 1 mile of the lair. Dexterity (Stealth) checks have advantage within that area. The Queen of Cats can suppress this effect in any area she can see (this doesn't require an action). Within 1 mile of the lair at night, no matter the weather, there is always a clear patch in the sky that reveals the moon. During any moon phase other than a new moon or lunar eclipse, this area is dimly lit by moonlight. If the Queen of Cats dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

