# Animal Lord, Mouse King

**description**: This dog-sized mouse has a hairless tail and copper eyes. Its fur is ash-white with streaks of dark gray across its back in an asymmetrical pattern. King of Rodents. The Mouse King is the King of all rodents, and he spends his days looking after the concerns of rodents on the Material, Astral, and Ethereal Planes. When slain, he is reborn within a week. As king, he often sees the taint of Chittr'k'k's influence on his subjects. Thankfully, his people's ability to rapidly multiply leaves him with plenty of resources to defend his kind against the machinations of the Demon Lord. In the Company of Thieves. The Mouse King can always be found at the head of a guild of thieves. He schemes to make sure his wealth continues to grow, which often means entering into conflict with other gangs. Civic-Minded Scoundrel. When it comes to making money, he takes into account what is best for the long-term prosperity of the city in which he operates, which he rightly believes is integral to his own success and that of his subjects. He is a great proponent of trade of all kinds, and his subjects have found their way to every corner of the world in the company of sailors, merchants, and drovers. The Mouse King's Lair The Mouse King lives in the alleys and sewers of cities. Cities with a high amount of underground and criminal activity are especially attractive to the Mouse King. His lair is full of twisting sewer pipes of various sizes and dark alleyways leading to dead ends or in circles. Some of the pipes and alleyways lead to sewers and alleys in different cities, placing the Mouse King's lair in a space between cities. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Mouse King takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; he can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: The Mouse King raises his arms and squeals, calling swarms of rodents from the environment to trip his enemies. Each creature within 60 feet of the Mouse King must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. The Mouse King chooses a point within 120 feet that he can see. A wave of spectral rodents emerges from the ground at that point and attacks all creatures in a 30-foot-radius centered on that point. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) poison damage and be poisoned for 1 minute. Each creature of the Mouse King's choice within 60 feet of him must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the creature is transformed into a mouse as if affected by the polymorph spell. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this effect for the next 24 hours. Regional Effects The section of a city containing the Mouse King's lair is warped by his magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The area within 1 mile of the lair attracts hundreds of mice and rats. The Mouse King can choose to see or hear through the senses of any mouse or rat in this area and can speak through it while doing so. Mice and rats within 1 mile of the lair are more resistant to disease. They never catch, carry, or spread any diseases unless the Mouse King wishes it. Illicit deals are easier to hide near the lair. Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) checks made within 1 mile of the lair have advantage, and Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence (Investigation) checks made to notice or find illegal dealings have disadvantage. If the Mouse King dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Mouse King in Midgard Myzi the First and Lord of the Undercity resides in Zobeck. His interests and, some say, his mortality are tied to that city. When Myzi dies, his spirit inhabits the body of another mouse or rat in Zobeck, transforming it within a week into his next incarnation. He strives to help Zobeck prosper as it is good for his people and his coffers. He uses the city's trade routes and river barges to take his informants far and wide. Another Mouse King lives in the cities of Midgard outside of Zobeck. This Mouse King, like the other Animal Lords, is focused entirely on the preservation and betterment of his own kind. He strives to promote coexistence of humanoids and his people by keeping his feet both in the criminal underground and in the local political arena. Though many wonder to which he is truly loyal, all agree he aims to do what is best for his city in the long-term. No one has ever seen Myzi and the Mouse King side-by-side, leading some to believe they are one and the same. When asked, Myzi and the Mouse King both refuse to comment on the matter or acknowledge the existence of the other.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

