# Animal Lord, Brother Ox

**description**: Clad in a simple, plain robe, this creature has the head of a massive ox with wide, sweeping horns and short, dark fur covering its powerfully-muscled body. It stands as still as a statue on one of its feet with the other braced against its opposite knee. The only sound it makes is the deep, rhythmic rush of its breath. Of all the animal lords, Brother Ox is the most contemplative, and the least likely to act despite his great power. He stands over fifteen feet tall, is strong enough to crush boulders, and moves like grass in the wind. He smells faintly of musk and incense and wears simple, homespun clothing without embellishments or adornments. His only possession is a string of wooden prayer beads. If he ever had a name other than Brother Ox, no one living remembers it and Brother Ox himself isn't telling. Endless Contemplation. Brother Ox lives atop the tallest mountain where the air is thin and bitter cold, filling his days with training, study, and contemplation to hone his physical and spiritual being. Despite the simple collection of books and scrolls he keeps, Brother Ox has gathered more knowledge than mortal scholars could dream. Chances are good that if a supplicant can reach Brother Ox, and convince him to help, there is almost no secret he can't uncover. Enigmatic Guide. Despite his vast, potentially endless, well of knowledge, Brother Ox isn't motivated to hand these pearls of wisdom out to anyone who asks. However, he has accepted the presence of the occasional pilgrim, and rarely, takes a yakirian or other supplicant as a long-term student. Brother Ox is difficult to read and hasn't lost his composure in centuries. If a would-be knowledge-seeker can survive the mountain journey and successfully locate the monastery, it might have to wait weeks or even years for Brother Ox to acknowledge its presence. Then he moves only to set the supplicant on a series of strange, menial, dangerous, or perplexing tasks before granting a request. Timeless Nature. Brother Ox doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Brother Ox's Lair Brother Ox's lair is a sprawling, stone monastery atop one of the tallest mountains in the world. The temple's interior is simply appointed and comfortable even for creatures not acclimated to life at extreme altitude. It contains a rock garden, martial arts practice areas, meditation chambers, a library of scrolls, sparse sleeping quarters with simple food and water, and a shrine dedicated to no particular gods. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Brother Ox takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; he can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Brother Ox can alter the structure of the lair. A stone door, wall, or column appears or vanishes as Brother Ox desires. The alteration is permanent until Brother Ox uses this lair action again to revert it. Stone structures are composed of 5-foot-by-5-foot sections, have AC 17, 30 hp per 5-foot section, and are immune to poison and psychic damage. If a structure appears in a creature's space, the creature takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage and is pushed to the nearest unoccupied space of its choice. Brother Ox can create any combination of structures totaling no more than three 5-foot-by-5-foot sections with each use of this lair action. Brother Ox chooses one creature he can see within 100 feet. Brother Ox is invisible to the target creature until initiative count 20 on the following round. Brother Ox strikes a great, spectral bell that appears for a brief moment. Each creature in a 30-foot cone extending from Brother Ox must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 14 (4d6) thunder damage and is pushed 15 feet away from Brother Ox. On a success, the creature takes half the damage but isn't pushed. Regional Effects The region containing Brother Ox's lair is warped by his presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: The area within 5 miles of the lair becomes prone to blizzards that obscure sight, and the terrain seems to shift and change as one travels. Ability checks made to avoid becoming lost are made with disadvantage, and magic that would point the way to a destination within 5 miles of the lair fails. Brother Ox can choose to render any number of creatures immune to this effect or to rescind that immunity at any time. Creatures within 5 miles of the lair become more healthy and resilient to sickness. Within the lair, circumstances are always perfect for meditation and reflection. A creature who meditates during a short rest regains the maximum number of hp when it spends hit dice and has advantage on its next Intelligence or Wisdom check made before finishing a long rest. Brother Ox dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

