# Animal Lord, Queen of Mammoths

**description**: The intimidating power of this elephantine-headed woman radiates from her golden tusks and proud stance. Her subtle smile and deep, honey-colored eyes hint at the wisdom behind the muscle. Known to some as Ladgerda, the Queen of Mammoths wanders the frigid foothills and tundras, living among her mammoth subjects. Though she prefers to stay neutral in the conflicts between the various animal lords (see Creature Codex ), when animals are threatened, she steps to the forefront, eagerly demonstrating why only fools stand in the way of the stampede. Mammoth's Gift. The Queen of Mammoths can break the tip off one of her golden tusks and present it as a reward for great service. Depending on the service, the tusk can temporarily grant the recipient great strength or fortitude, or it can be melted down and sold at great value to better aid the recipient in taking care of its own charges. Strong Allies. The Queen of Mammoths often allies herself with Brother Ox, the Lord of Bovines (see Creature Codex ). Their shared contemplative nature is mirrored by the ferocity they show when their animal subjects are threatened. Rumors fly among the other animal lords and their servants that Brother Ox and the Queen of Mammoths are more than simple allies, but none dare speak such rumors in the presence of either animal lord. Elephantine Passivism. No elephant, mammoth, or other elephantine creature can willingly attack the Queen of Mammoths. They can be forced to do so through magical means. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the Queen of Mammoths fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The Queen of Mammoths has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The Queen of Mammoths's weapon attacks are magical. Rejuvenation. If she dies, the Queen of Mammoths's soul reforms on the Astral Plane. In 1d6 days, it inhabits the body of another elephantine creature on the Material Plane, which becomes the Queen of Mammoths with all of the hp and abilities thereof. Only killing every elephantine creature on the Material Plane will prevent this trait from functioning. Speak with Elephantines. The Queen of Mammoths can communicate with any elephant, mammoth, or other elephantine creature as if they shared a language. Trampling Charge. If the Queen of Mammoths moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Gore attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the queen can make one Stomp attack against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack. The Queen of Mammoths makes three Battleaxe attacks or two Gore attacks, or she makes one Gore attack and one Stomp attack. She can replace one attack with one Trunk attack or Trunk Slam. Battleaxe (Humanoid or True Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7) slashing damage, or 23 (3d10 + 7) slashing damage if used with two hands. Gore (Elephantine or True Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 34 (6d8 + 7) piercing damage. Stomp (Elephantine or True Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 34 (5d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Trunk (Elephantine or True Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: The target is grappled (escape DC 19) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the queen can't use her Trunk attack on another target. Trunk Slam. One Large or smaller object held or creature grappled by the Queen of Mammoths is slammed into the ground or flung away. A creature slammed to the ground must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 27 (5d10) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. This doesn't end the grappled condition on the target. A creature flung away is thrown up to 60 feet in a random direction and knocked prone. If a thrown creature strikes a solid surface, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone. Tusk Sweep (Elephantine or True Form Only, Recharge 5-6). The Queen of Mammoths channels raw magic as she sweeps her tusks in a wide arc. Each creature in a 15-foot cube must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 35 (10d6) bludgeoning damage and is pushed up to 15 feet away from the queen. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't pushed away. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The Queen of Mammoths transforms into a Gargantuan oliphaunt (see Creature Codex ), a Huge mammoth, a Medium female human with thick brown hair tied back in a braid, or back into her true Huge elephant-headed humanoid form. Her statistics, other than her size, are the same in each form. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying transforms with her. Reactions Catch Weapon (Elephantine or True Form Only). When the Queen of Mammoths is hit by a melee weapon attack, she can reduce the damage by 1d10 + 17. If this reduces the damage to 0, the queen can catch the weapon with her trunk if she is not using it to grapple a creature. If the Queen of Mammoths catches a weapon in this way, she must make a Strength (Athletics) check contested by the attacker's Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check (the target chooses the ability to use). The queen has disadvantage on the check if the wielder is holding the item with two or more hands. If she wins, she disarms the creature and can throw the weapon up to 60 feet in a random direction as part of the same reaction. Legendary Actions The Queen of Mammoths can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The Queen of Mammoths regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Regenerative Hide. The Queen of Mammoths regains 15 hp. She can't use this legendary action again until the end of her next turn. Trunk. The Queen of Mammoths makes one Trunk attack. Shoving Stampede (Costs 2 Actions). The Queen of Mammoths charges, becoming an unstoppable stampede in a line up to 80 feet long and 15 feet wide. Each creature in the line must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure a creature takes 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage and is pushed up to 15 feet away and knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. The Queen of Mammoths's movement along this line doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. Queen's Trumpet (Costs 3 Actions). The Queen of Mammoths raises her trunk and emits a loud trumpeting that is audible out to 300 feet. She chooses up to three creatures that can hear the trumpeting. If a target is friendly, it has advantage on its next attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. If a target is hostile, it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fey (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

