# Animal Lord, Queen of Birds

**description**: Brightly-colored wings shimmer in the sunlight as the tall woman folds them against her body. Her piercing, jewel-tone eyes glare down her long nose at those unfortunate enough to be bound to the land, her spear crackling with lightning. Vashnaya the Swift and Wise is the Queen of Birds and Mistress of Wind and Sky. She rules the winds from her palace atop its delicate, impossibly thin spire, mistress of all she surveys. She soars on the winds that blow far above the ground, looking down on the world from on high. Warlords and rulers covet her favor and the information she gleans, while soldiers fear the thunder strike of her spear. Words on the Wind. Birds of all sorts fly from far and wide, shifting their normal migratory patterns to visit the Queen of Birds. She adores their calls and songs but not only for their beauty. The Queen can understand the birds, and they enjoy telling her about everything they've seen and heard. Through these feathered informants, the Queen learns much of what transpires for many miles around her lair. Given enough time, she can learn about events on the far side of the world. Commanding and Proud. The Queen of Birds sees herself as above all others, literally and figuratively. Other beings with the ability to fly sometimes visit her palace in hopes to obtain her advice. Reaching the palace is the first test the Queen places before any who would seek her favor; anyone who can't reach her abode isn't worth her time. Those who do reach her home and show proper deference to her station and wisdom might earn her favor. Any who forget their place might find themselves suddenly shown out of the palace and to the several-hundred-foot plummet to the ground. The Queen of Birds' Lair The Queen of Birds' lair is a strange sight. A thin stone spire only three feet wide rises from the ground to 500 feet in the air. Impossibly perched atop this spire is a palace with lush gardens, terraces, and open galleries. The Queen holds court in the palace Haval, surrounded by birds of all varieties and bird-like fey and humanoids such as ravenfolk. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Queen of Birds takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; she can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: The Queen of Birds sounds a piercing cry. She summons 4 giant eagles or 16 bloodhawks in unoccupied spaces she can see within 120 feet. The creatures act immediately and on initiative count 20 in subsequent rounds. The creatures follow the Queen's commands and remain for 1 hour or until the Queen uses this lair action again. The Queen of Birds summons a 20-foot-radius sphere of brightly-colored songbirds centered on a point she can see within 120 feet. Each creature other than the Queen of Birds in the sphere when it appears or that ends its turn in the sphere must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or lose concentration and spend its action that turn fending off the birds. Creatures within the area are deafened. The birds last until initiative count 20 on the following round. Two 5-foot-radius, 30-foot-tall cylinders of swirling air magically form on points the Queen of Birds can see within 120 feet. Each creature other than the Queen in a whirlwind when it appears or that ends its turn in a whirlwind must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained by it. The whirlwinds last for 1 minute or until the Queen uses this lair action again. A creature can be freed if it or another creature takes an action to make a DC 15 Strength check and succeeds. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary Queen of Birds' lair is warped by the Queen's magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The area within 1 mile of the lair attracts birds of all varieties. They fill the air with their songs and perch on trees and buildings. The Queen of Birds can choose to see or hear through the senses of any bird in this area and can speak through it while doing so. The weather within 6 miles of the lair is clear with light winds unless the Queen of Birds chooses to let it follow the surrounding weather patterns. Birds within 1 mile of the lair reflect the Queen's mood. When she is content, they sing happily. If she is displeased, they stare menacingly and grow eerily silent. If the Queen of Birds dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

