# Animated Offal

**description**: This disgusting mass of congealed blood, intermingled with other fluids, is interrupted here and there by pieces of flesh—scraps of skin and muscle, bone, and the occasional whole or partial limb or milky eyeball. It all moves together in a slow, shuddering flow. The first animated offal was the unintentional product of war. A field hospital for the wounded included a large pit where all the castoffs from their work—blood, pus, surgically removed flesh, and the like—were dumped. The residual energy from the constant healing spells, and the dregs of healing potions in bottles also dumped in the pit, stirred the mass of offal into a strange semblance of life. Ease to Recreate. Since its initial creation, mad or evil magical researchers have recreated the circumstances that birthed the first such creature, bringing new animated offal into the world. Such creatures also reproduce. Once an animated offal absorbs enough new organic matter into its mass, a portion splits off, creating an entirely new ooze. Vitalized by Healing Magic. Originally created by healing magic, an animated offal is attracted to such energies. If a healing spell is cast near it, or there are healing potions in the area, the animated offal moves toward them in preference to other targets, seeking to consume such energies. Flowing Flesh. The animated offal can move through spaces as narrow as 6 inches wide without squeezing. Healing Sense. The animated offal can sense healing spells, effects, and potions within 120 feet of it. If the ooze is the target of a healing spell, if it consumes a healing potion, or if it is affected by a similar magical effect, it gains a +2 bonus to its AC, has advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and can use its Pseudopod attack as a bonus action for 1 minute. Ooze Nature. The animated offal doesn't require sleep. Actions Multiattack. The animated offal makes two Pseudopod attacks. Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8) necrotic damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16) if it is a Large or smaller creature and the animated offal doesn't have two other creatures grappled. If the target is holding or carrying one or more healing potions, there is a 25 percent chance one potion shatters during the attack, allowing the animated offal to absorb the healing energy and gain the benefits of its Healing Sense. Bonus Actions Subsume. The animated offal begins absorbing one creature it is grappling. The creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The animated offal regains hp equal to half the damage dealt. If the animated offal is at its hp maximum, it gains temporary hp for 1 hour instead. The animated offal can add temporary hp gained from this trait to temporary hp gained earlier from this trait. Its temporary hp can't exceed 48. If its temporary hp would exceed 48, a new animated offal appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the animated offal. The new Ooze is Small, doesn't have this bonus action, and has 10 hp. A creature killed by this bonus action is fully subsumed into the animated offal and can be restored to life only by means of a resurrection spell or similar magic.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Ooze
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

