# Animal Lord, Lord of Vultures

**description**: This charismatic and handsome dark-skinned man has the noble bearing of a lord or king. A pair of black and gold wings grow from his back, and his bare feet are taloned like a raptor's. He wears fine silk clothing and brandishes a large, shining spear. A gold circlet sits atop his brow above his aquiline nose. Sampati is the immortal Lord of Vultures and King of Raptors and makes his home in a mountaintop eyrie on the highest peak of the tallest mountain. He acts as a god to vultures, eagles, rocs, and other birds of prey, protecting and safeguarding the interests of avians throughout the world. Though his domain and interests overlap with those of the Queen of Birds, Sampati and Vashnaya rarely interact. They have differing opinions on how their wards should be protected and keep out of each others' way to avoid unnecessary conflict. Uncommon Ally. Less reclusive than his counterpart, Sampati enjoys involving himself in the affairs of humans and their kin from time to time. He has been known to aid those brave enough to make the perilous climb to his mountain abode and will sometimes enlist the help of mortals himself, particularly if the natural order of things is at risk. If he feels these mortals cannot be entirely trusted, he will lay a geas upon them to make sure they do everything they can to complete whatever task he sets. Disguised Wanderer. Several times a year, Sampati travels the lands of mortals, either disguising himself as a dark-skinned human man with black and gold hair or taking the form of an enormous vulture with black and gold wings. In either guise, Sampati is always vigilant against those who seek to destroy birds of prey or their habitats and is ready to take swift and terrible action, if needed. Legends of Sampati in Midgard Sampati and his brother Jatayu grew up in Khandiria centuries ago, the semi-divine sons of the God of the Rising Sun. Winged like vultures, they enjoyed flying through the sky, often challenging each other to see who could fly the highest. One day, Jatayu flew too close to the sun, and his feathers began to smolder. To stop his brother's wings from catching fire, Sampati spread his own wings, shielding Jatayu from the burning sun. He saved his brother's life, but Sampati's wings were burned to ashes. He crashed to earth and crawled wingless into a cave to seek refuge. Many years later, the Monkey King and his kapi followers were traveling through Khandiria and passed close to Sampati's cave. The hungry Sampati leapt out, intending to devour the monkey people, but, as he was about to strike, he heard the Monkey King mention his brother's name. Amazed, Sampati learned that Jatayu had died heroically in battle against a great demon. When the Monkey King explained he and his companions were tracking the demon, Sampati told them he had seen the demon carrying off a beautiful young princess in his flying chariot and pointed the way. Blessed for his good deed, Sampati's wings grew back, and he became the Lord of Vultures. If Sampati is ever killed, his spirit will enter the body of a bird of prey somewhere else in the world, and that bird will become the new Lord of Vultures.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

