# Anito

**description**: Anito (Uhn-ee-toh) When a humanoid dies suddenly or tragically in a fey-touched forest, its soul is sometimes transformed into an anito, the most common type of engkanto. The anito resembles an 8-foot tall dendroidal humanoid with gnarly growths protruding from its head and limbs. An anito is generally characterized as contemplative, inquisitive, quiet, temperamental, and territorial. The anito may be friendly and helpful to a creature if it shows reverence to the engkanto but then could become suddenly enraged for any unintentional slight the same creature may have done. Ancestral Spirit. Humanoid tribes and communities aware of the anito’s presence pay their respects to it, knowing that the anito was probably one of their ancestors. Some even worship them as gods and leave offerings to them such as food, wooden carvings of the anito, and even humanoid sacrifices, hoping that the anito will bestow upon them a good harvest and protect them against enemies, illnesses, and natural calamities. Nature's Warden. An anito does not take kindly to unannounced visits to its domain. Any creature that crosses into the anito’s territory must offer a small gift or ask for permission in the form of worship, lest they fall prey to anito’s wrath. So long as they do not desecrate the anito’s territory or take more bounty than they should, the anito will most likely leave them alone. Those that incur the anito’s wrath will have to face it and answer to its demands. Depending on the gravity of the interloper’s actions, the anito may put a curse on the offending creature, make it lose its bearings and wander the forest for weeks, transform it into a forest creature, keep it prisoner, or worse. An Anito's Lair An anito's lair can be a copse of trees, a set of standing stones, or the ruins of a shrine or temple within a grove. Depending on the anito's preference, the surrounding area can appear as a lush, beautiful garden or a wild, tangled and thorny thicket. Boggles, gray duwendes, kapres, korreds, nereids, satyrs, vegepygmies, and wood woads may reside near the anito's lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the anito takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the anito can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The anito casts bestow curse (no components required) and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. The effect ends after 1 minute, or if the anito uses this lair action again. The anito casts entangle (no components required) and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. The effect ends after 1 minute, or if the anito uses this lair action again. Each creature the anito can see within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the anito for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this lair effect for the next 24 hours. Regional Effects The region containing an anito’s lair is warped by the anito’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Once per day, the anito can alter the weather in a 6-mile radius centered on its lair. The anito doesn’t need to be outdoors; otherwise the effect is identical to the control weather spell. The land within 6 miles of the lair takes twice as long as normal to traverse, since the vegetation grow thick and twisted. Medium or smaller woodland beasts within 1 mile of the anito’s lair serve as the anito’s eyes and ears. If the anito dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Engkanto (Eng-kaan-toh) Despite their plant-like appearance, engkantos are actually mighty fey spirits that dwell in the Material Plane. They were once humanoids who died in ancient enchanted forests and, through Feywild magic or by a nature deity's intervention, were reincarnated into engkantos. They may not fully recall their mortal life, but engkantos will occasionally see glimpses of their past. This sometimes leaves engkantos confused and even frustrated. Thankfully, the forest where it now lives gives enkantos a sense of peace. In return, the engkantos become its mighty guardian. Engkantos tend to be reclusive and very rarely show themselves to nonwoodland dwellers. However, they are fascinated with the humanoids who live near their territories, perhaps because it reminds them of their past. At times, enkantos even act as their invisible guardians and even transform themselves into normal humanoids to get closer to the neighbors' communities, possibly mingling with them without them knowing of their true nature. Nature's Guardians. Engkantos see themselves as protectors and wardens of the forests and its inhabitants and often work with druids. Because of this, they often come into conflict with those who enter, encroach, and defile their territories, which can span miles of wooded areas, though how they react and pursue a course of action dramatically differs from one another. There are three types of engkantos: anitos, diwatas, and malignos. Grove-bound. Engkantos are bound to a special grove or group of trees, just like a dryad is bound to a tree. An engkanto can emerge from any of the trees within its grove and travel the lands around it, but the grove remains its home and roots the enkanto to the Material Plane. As long as one tree from the grove remains alive and unharmed, the engkanto stays healthy. If any of the trees are harmed, the engkanto suffers. If the grove is ever destroyed, the engkanto descends into madness and will seek vengeance against those responsible. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the anito fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The anito has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Plant Camouflage. The anito has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuring plant life. Regeneration. The anito regains 5 hit points at the start of its turn if it is within 120 feet of its grove. If the anito takes fire, necrotic, or radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the anito’s next turn. The anito’s body is destroyed only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Speak with Beasts and Plants. The anito can communicate with beasts and plants as if they and the anito shared a language. Spell Penetration. When the anito casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The anito can use its Bewildering Presence. It then makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, grasping weeds and vines sprout underneath the target and restrains it for 1 minute. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 16 Strength check, escaping from the grasping plants on a success. The effect ends if the grasping plants is destroyed. The grasping plants have AC 10, 10 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage. Bewildering Presence. Each creature of the anito’s choice that the anito can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed. While charmed, the target suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The effect lasts for 1 minute. The anito doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. The charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the anito’s Bewildering Presence for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The anito casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: bestow curse, dancing lights, druidcraft, entangle, healing word (as a 3rd-level spell), thorn whip (3d6), tree stride 2/day each: erupting earth, fog cloud, grasping vine, hallucinatory terrain, plant growth 1/day each: dominate beast, dominate person, geas, polymorph, wrath of nature Change Shape. The anito magically transforms into a Medium humanoid, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the anito is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Legendary Actions The anito gains 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The anito regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The anito moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Slam. The anito makes a Slam attack. Cast Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The anito innately casts a spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

