# Ankheg

**description**: Pebbles click as the ground quivers. A spray of rock and earth shatters the afternoon’s peace, and an ankheg blooms from the earth. Their mandibles drip sizzling acid as a talon impales their next meal: sometimes a fat sheep, other times a shepherd. An ankheg is a chitinous, burrowing monstrosity larger than a horse. Their hooked claws and serrated mandibles are fearsome weapons, but even more dangerous is the stream of caustic spittle they use to dissolve their prey. Pastoral Pest. Although ankhegs can be found anywhere, they are a particular plague in settled lands. Ankhegs hunt alone or in pairs, lurking a few feet below roadways and pastures. When their sensitive antennae detect movement above, they burst from the earth, dragging living prey into their tunnels to be devoured. These hit-and-run tactics make ankhegs virtually impossible to eradicate—unless they have the bad luck to ambush a party of well-armed adventurers. Many communities pay a handsome bounty for a slain ankheg. Terror of the Thaw. Ankhegs are a year-round menace in the warmest lands. In temperate places, ankhegs hibernate during the winter, granting farmers a season of peace … but this respite is paid for on the first thaw of spring, when every ankheg awakens ravenous on the same day and bursts from the ground to feed. Traits Disoriented Resistance ( 2 /Day). When the ankheg fails a saving throw, they can succeed instead, and they can’t use bonus actions until the end of their next turn. Earth Walk. Difficult terrain composed of earth and stone doesn’t cost the ankheg extra movement. Soft Underbelly. When a prone creature within 5 feet of the ankheg attacks the ahkheg, the attack is made with advantage instead of disadvantage. Unstable Tunneler. While burrowing, the ankheg leaves a 10-foot-diameter tunnel in their wake. Each section of tunnel collapses 1 minute after the ahkheg leaves that space. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 2 (1d4) acid damage. If the target is Large or smaller, they are grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the ankheg can’t make a Bite attack against another target. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage. Acid Spit (Recharge 6 ). The ankheg spits acid in a 30-foot long, 5-foot-wide line. Each creature in that area must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 7 (2d6) acid damage and is bathed in acid. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and suffers no other effect. A creature who is bathed in acid takes 3 (1d6) acid damage at the start of each of their turns for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). A creature can use their action to wipe the acid off themself or another creature within their reach, ending the effect early. Bonus Actions Earth Eruption. While burrowing within 10 feet of the surface, the ankheg erupts (without spending movement) into a 10-foot square on the ground directly above them. This area becomes difficult terrain, and each creature on the ground in this area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is pushed 5 feet to an unoccupied space of the ankheg’s choice and is restrained by rubble. A creature can use their action to free themself or another creature within their reach. On a successful save, a creature is moved 5 feet to an unoccupied space of the creature’s choice and is not restrained. Reactions Skitter. When a creature attacks the ankheg, the ankheg can move up to half their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Villain Actions The ankheg has three villain actions. They can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. The ankheg can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Big Bug! The ankheg stands on their hind legs in an impressive and terrifying display of dominance. Each enemy within 30 feet of the ankheg who can see them must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the ankheg for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Action 2 : Quick Burrow. If the ankheg is grappled, the condition ends for them, and they burrow up to twice their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. If the ankheg is grappling a Large or smaller creature during this movement, the ankheg’s speed is not halved. Action 3 : Acid Bath. Acid sprays from the ankheg’s wounds onto each creature within 15 feet of them. Each target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

