# Anveleon

**description**: Ze anveleon? Oh ja, I love havink it around! Stubbing mein toe on ein invisible anvil is sehr fun! Und ven it keeps everyone up at night for three days straight hammerink avay to forge ein simple teaspoon? Simply wunderbar! — Humperdink, Sleep Deprived Type: Monstrosity Creature Component: Any metallic construct Bonus Tamer Improvement: Forgemaster and +2 Hit Dice Clever creatures with an affinity for metalworking, anveleons can frequently be found blending into the walls of smithies and watching masters at work, hoping to pick up some new tricks. Their hardened scales and unusual shape allow them to use their own bodies in the pursuit of their craft, to which they devote themselves with unapologetic perfectionism. Indeed, an anveleon can spend days making minor tweaks and improvements to one of its creations, only to undo them all and start anew the next. Anveleons often carry tools of their own making, which they wield using their tails against foes bearing poorer quality equipment with ill-concealed enthusiasm. In battle, however, they favour tending to their allies’ weapons, ensuring that they are in perfect condition. Your blades will never lack for sharpness with an anveleon around! If any of the anveleon’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the anveleon’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the anveleon’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer Forgemaster Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (tamer) The anveleon can be used as a set of smith’s tools, and its tamer has advantage on any ability checks using it in this way. In addition, over the course of a short or long rest, the anveleon can magically enhance a metallic weapon or piece of ammunition. The next attack roll made with that weapon or ammunition is made with advantage. A weapon or piece of ammunition loses this benefit when the anveleon’s tamer finishes a long rest. Growth I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The anveleon’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its attacks increases to a d6. Thunderstrike Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the anveleon can make a Hammer attack against itself, which automatically hits, producing a thunderous ring. Each creature within 5 feet of the anveleon must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take thunder damage equal to the damage the anveleon dealt to itself. When the anveleon’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the thunder damage increases to double the damage the anveleon dealt to itself. Blacksmiting Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the anveleon can cast the branding smite spell on a willing creature within 5 feet of it. The creature benefits from the spell as if it had been the one to cast it, but the anveleon maintains concentration on the spell for it. Once the anveleon casts this spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the anveleon makes two attacks. Whetstone I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion), Active (bonus action) The anveleon can use its Hone action as a bonus action. When the anveleon’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the extra damage of the Hone action increases to 3 (1d6). Autotomy Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Active (action) The anveleon can use an action to shed its tail, automatically ending the grappled or restrained condition on itself. The tail grows back immediately after. Growth II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Growth I Type: Passive (companion) The anveleon’s size increases to Medium, its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its attacks increases to a d8. Well-Tempered I Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The anveleon gains a +2 bonus to AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Camouflage Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Active (action) The anveleon can use its Invisibility action at will. Whetstone II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Whetstone I Type: Passive (companion) The extra damage of the anveleon’s Hone action increases to 4 (1d8). Additionally, when the anveleon hones a weapon, the next attack made with that weapon before the start of the anveleon’s next turn scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Well-Tempered II Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Well-Tempered I Type: Passive (companion) The anveleon gains a +2 bonus to AC while it isn’t wearing armour. This improvement is in addition to the bonus from Well-Tempered I. Additionally, the anveleon gains resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 26720
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

