# Arasta

**description**: Mythic Monsters This section describes three of Theros's most infamous terrors, beings whose might and dreadful deeds set them apart as menaces of legendary proportions. While many of Theros's greatest myths arise from storied terrors—like the hydra Polukranos or the dreaded titans—the monsters in this section have a feature that sets them apart: mythic traits. Mythic traits transform battles into truly legendary confrontations, well suited to the climactic battles at the ends of adventures or whole campaigns. Mythic traits are optional; they don't need to be used during combat with these monsters. If you so choose, you may simply ignore a monster's mythic trait and mythic actions. If you wish to increase a battle's stakes, though, using a monster's mythic trait results in some mid-battle twist that changes the way the monster behaves, restores its resources, or provides it with new actions to use. As a result, the battle becomes deadlier and rages on for longer than most combat encounters. Each monster features an "As a Mythic Encounter" section that highlights its mythic trait, notes how using it changes the difficulty of the encounter and the rewards, and includes read-aloud text you can use mid-battle to signal a terrifying shift in the conflict. Arasta of the Endless Web A victim of the gods' petty rivalries, Arasta was once one of Nylea's most beloved dryad companions. Phenax's bitterness saw her transformed into an arachnid monstrosity and driven into the darkest depths of the Nessian Wood. Now she broods on her unjust fate and the fickleness of the gods who left her cursed with monstrous immortality. Arasta appears as a gigantic spiderlike creature, her few humanoid features made monstrous by cruel magic and ages of hatred. Webs fill her lair deep in the Nessian Wood, sticky strands made not of silk but of her own endless hair. In her darkened realm, Arasta broods on her hatred of the gods and their servants. She doesn't do so alone, though, as innumerable arachnids fawn over her, serving as her eyes throughout the wilderness, disposing of victims trapped within her hair, and sacrificing themselves in her defense if they must. See "Myths of Nylea" for more details on the tragedy of Arasta. Arasta as a Mythic Encounter Arasta is a formidable enemy under normal circumstances, but to give characters a truly mythic challenge, you can have her call on her Armor of Spiders. Her use of this trait signals a drastic turn in the encounter, as Arasta summons her arachnid children to protect her. While she has temporary hit points from this trait, she can choose one of her mythic actions when she uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when Arasta uses her Armor of Spiders trait: The nightmarish arachnid unleashes a shriek that sounds like a thousand spider carapaces scarring slate. In response, the ground ripples and bursts over the monster, revealing itself as a wave of countless spiders. The tiny arachnids swarm the larger horror, girding it in skittering bodies. Fighting Arasta as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two challenge rating 21 creatures in one encounter. Award a party 66,000 XP for defeating Arasta after she uses Armor of Spiders. Arasta’s Lair Arasta lives in an enormous, gnarled olive tree called Enorasi, which was planted millennia ago by Klothys. It is said that those who eat of its fruit can see glimpses of the future. Eating the fruit brings with it a risk, though, for those who Klothys finds unworthy might be driven mad. There, within Enorasi's hollow trunk, Arasta awaits the next would-be prophet to make her meal. Her webs stretch beyond the branches of the tree and carpet the forest floor of her realm. Path to the Underworld. Tales are told of forlorn souls who, because of grief or madness over the loss of a loved one, have sought out Arasta's lair, as it is rumored that some of the strands of her web are anchored near the edge of the Underworld and can enable a traveler to reach that realm's ashen shores. But those who enter her domain unbidden almost never go unnoticed, for Arasta can sense the slightest vibration along her web hair, and her children act as spies on her behalf. Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Arasta can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects. She can't use the same effect two rounds in a row. Arasta learns about any creature touching her webs. Each creature restrained by a web or Arasta's Web of Hair must make a DC 21 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, Arasta gains knowledge of a creature's name, race, where they consider home, and what brought them to her web. Arasta casts the giant insect spell (spiders only). It lasts until she uses this lair action again or until she dies. Regional Effects. The region containing Arasta's lair is warped by her presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: Spiders and insects within 1 mile of Arasta's lair serve as her eyes and ears. Birds and other flying creatures are absent from the skies and occasionally found trapped in webs. Within 1 mile of Arasta's lair, webs fill all 10-foot cubes of open space, so long as the webs can be anchored between two solid masses (such as walls or trees). The webs are flammable. Any webs exposed to fire burn away in 1 round. Any destroyed webs are magically repaired at the next dawn. If Arasta dies, the spiders and insects lose their supernatural link to her. The webs remain, but they dissolve within 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5432
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mythic Odysseys of Theros

