# Arbeyach's Herald, Ia'Affrat

**description**: A dark, droning cloud containing thousands of gray, thumb‑sized wasps, shifts and swarms around the black silhouette of a tall human with glowing red eyes. The wasps, too, glow with the heat of a low-burning coal and are wreathed in foul-smelling smoke. Faithless Servant. Ia'Affrat is the inverted reflection of his unkempt, overly-unyielding creator, Arbeyach, Hell's Prince of Swarms, and may soon be his successor. Ia'Affrat acts as Arbeyach's emissary to the courts of his rivals and to the mortal world as diplomat, spy, assassin, and scourge. Though he serves the rigid and resolute Prince of Hell, Ia'Affrat shows little loyalty to his maker. The eloquent and sophisticated creature has betrayed his master in thousands of small ways over the centuries, and eventually may betray him utterly. Until then, Ia'Affrat's shifting hive mind is pursues an unquenchable lust for arcane mysteries, human interaction, and the material pursuit of unwholesome flavors and dark delights. Joker and Devourer. Ia'Affrat delights in comedy, wine, song, dance, food, and inflicting torture and public humiliation on his foes—he is a rapacious devourer, gluttonous and greedy for all transient pleasures. Ia'Affrat abhors all permanency and leaves nothing in his path but ruin. He laughs with glee at the shattering of keystones, the stench of burning paint, and the hollow echoes of a library reduced to rubble. Traits Elemental Swarm: Ia'Affrat can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny insect. Magic Resistance: Ia'Affrat has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Innate Spellcasting: Ia'Affrat's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). Ia'Affrat can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: fire bolt, poison spray 3/day each: burning hands, invisibility, ray of enfeeblement, ray of sickness 1/day each: bestow curse, contagion, harm, insect plague, fireball Inhabit: Ia'Affrat can enter the body of an incapacitated or dead creature by crawling into its mouth and other orifices. Inhabiting requires 1 minute, and the victim must be Small, Medium, or Large. Ia'Affrat can abandon the body as an action. Attacks against the host deal half damage to Ia'Affrat as well, but Ia'Affrat's resistances and immunities still apply against this damage. If Ia'Affrat inhabits a dead body, it can animate it and control its movements, effectively becoming a zombie for as long as it remains inside. In a living victim, Ia'Affrat can control the victim's movement and actions as if using dominate monster (save DC 19) on the victim. Ia'Affrat can consume a living victim; the target takes 5 (2d4) necrotic damage per hour while Ia'Affrat inhabits its body, and Ia'Affrat regains hit points equal to the damage dealt. When inhabiting a body, Ia'Affrat can choose to have any spell it casts with a range of self, target the inhabited body rather than itself. The skin of a creature inhabited by Ia'Affrat crawls with the forms of the insects inside. Ia'Affrat can hide this telltale sign with a Charisma (Deception) check against a viewer's passive Insight. A greater restoration spell or comparable magic forces Ia'Affrat to abandon the host. Smoke Shroud: Ia'Affrat is shrouded in a 5-foot-radius cloud of dark smoke. This area is lightly obscured to creatures other than Ia'Affrat. Any creature that needs to breathe that begins its turn in the area must make a successful DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of its turn. Actions Bites (more than half hp): Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 0 ft., one creature. Hit : 21 (6d6) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bites (half hp and lower): Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 0 ft., one creature. Hit : 10 (3d6) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Smoke Jump: Ia'Affrat can travel instantly to a space in sight where there's smoke. Whirlwind (Recharge 4-6): Each creature in Ia'Affrat's space must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw. Each creature that fails takes 28 (8d6) bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage and is flung up 20 feet away from Ia'Affrat in a random direction and knocked prone. If the saving throw is successful, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't flung away or knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes an object, such as a wall or floor, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it traveled. If the target collides with another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: swarm
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

