# Arcane Amalgam

**description**: An arcane amalgam forms when the polluted discards of magical experiments coalesce in sewers. These bits of unpredictable oils and tainted arcane energies form an oozing swarm of thumb-sized globules. Dormant Predators. Arcane amalgams gather in psychedelic clumps that lie still when no magic is about, though they spring to violence if disturbed by curious rodents or sewer workers. These translucent globs are easily overlooked while moving in small pools or resting in standing water. Magic-Fed. As arcane runoff passes near an amalgam, the swarm draws this in, expanding even further. On the rare occasion an amalgam encounters a spell or magic item, each drop springs to life with an eager mouth, seeking to consume anything—or anyone—magical within reach. Once the arcane amalgam has the scent of this magic, they mercilessly hunt their quarry. Trash to Treasure. The amalgam slowly digests their magic diet, becoming dormant again after eating their fill. Adventurers lucky enough to survive an encounter with one of these swarms might find valuable spell components or magic items among the remains. Traits Antimagic Lethargy. While in the area of an antimagic field spell, the amalgam’s speed is halved and they can’t use reactions. Additionally, if targeted by the dispel magic spell, the amalgam must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against the caster’s spell save DC or be unable to use reactions for 1 minute. Arcane Tracker. If the amalgam comes within 30 feet of a creature or object affected by magic, the amalgam can unerringly track that target for the next 24 hours. Explosive Enhancement. After the amalgam is hit with an attack using a mundane melee weapon, that weapon becomes charged with vibrating energy. For the next minute, the weapon gains a cumulative +1 bonus to damage rolls. If this bonus increases to +3, the weapon explodes and is destroyed, and the creature wielding it takes 10 (3d6) force damage. False Appearance. While the amalgam remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a puddle of muck. Swarm. The amalgam can occupy another creature’s space and vice versa, and the amalgam can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. The amalgam can’t regain hit points or gain temporary hit points. Actions Multiattack. The arcane amalgam makes two Bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 0 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) acid damage, or 7 (2d6) acid damage if the amal- gam has half their hit points or fewer. Wild Surge (Recharge 5–6). The unstable compounds that form the amalgam react violently to each other. Each creature within 10 feet of the amalgam must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 22 (4d10) damage of a random type (roll a d6 for each creature): 1, acid; 2, cold; 3, fire; 4, force; 5, necrotic; 6, poison. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. Reactions Spell Reflection. When the amalgam takes damage from a spell, they emit a burst of magical energy. Each creature within 10 feet of the amalgam must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) damage of the type dealt to the amalgam by the triggering spell. If the spell dealt more than one type of damage, the amalgam chooses which type this reaction deals.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Swarm of Tiny Oozes
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

