# Arcanax

**description**: The arcanax are green-scaled, though not necessarily made using a green dragon's blood. They specialize in elemental magic, and their death brings an explosion of necrotic energy. Due to their draconic blood, their magic has a nearly bottomless well of energy to feed it, and their cunning use of magic allows them to amplify their attacks when tactical advantage allows it. Gliders. Although dragonblooded have wings, the majority of them are incapable of true flight and are only able to glide. Except for the Voludan, a dragonblooded’s fly speed can’t be used to gain altitude, and they drop 5 feet per round that they remain aloft. Tactics. The tactics used by the dragonblooded vary by their type, but can be generally summarized as single-minded in service to their creator. Each dragonblooded seeks to make the best use of their death as possible, and may even hasten their own demise when escape seems impossible if it means harming a greater number of foes in the process. Traits Necro-Bomb. When slain, the arcanax explodes in a flash of necrotic energy. Each creature within a 10-foot radius sphere must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 21 (6d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Arcane Focus. When the arcanax casts a damaging spell with an area of effect, it can choose up to three creatures in the area of effect; these creatures suffer no damage. Arcane Assault. Once per turn, when the arcanax hits a creature with a damaging spell attack, that creature takes 7 (2d6) additional damage of the spell's damage type if that target is within 5 feet of an ally of the arcanax and that ally isn't incapacitated. Arcane Body. The arcanax's Injury thresholds are considered 5 higher for Injuries inflicted with spells. It also has advantage on saving throws against spells that would inflict an Injury as part of the spell. Innate Spellcasting. The arcanax casts spells using its Intelligence. The DC for saving throws against its spells is 14 and its spell attack bonus is +6. Actions Multiattack. The arcanax makes two attacks with its Ghost-Poison Blade, or one with its Ghost-Poison Blade and one with its Lightning Lance. Ghost-Poison Blade. Melee Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8+3) poison damage, and the target must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of the arcanax's next turn. Lightning Lance. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) lightning damage, and the target must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or have its speed reduced to 0 until the end of its next turn. Fireball (recharge 6). The arcanax casts fireball. Each creature in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on a point within 120 feet must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 28 (8d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire spreads around corners. It ignites flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried. Desiccating Sphere (recharge 6). The arcanax casts desiccating sphere *. It reaches out, pulling the life-giving water from each creature in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on a point you can see within range. Each living creature in the sphere must make a Constitution saving throw or take 27 (5d10) necrotic damage and gain a special Injury, "Dehydrated". While Injured in this way, a creature gains one level of exhaustion and has its non-magical movement speeds reduced by 5 feet. Dehydrated is an Injury of Setback I severity, and is automatically removed at the end of a long rest. A creature cannot gain this Injury more than once, and it cannot be removed with a Wisdom (Medicine) check unless that check is made in conjunction with healing magic or made at the end of a short rest. On a successful save, a creature takes half damage and is not Injured. Plants have disadvantage on the saving throw, are vulnerable to the damage, and the movement speed penalty of the Dehydrated Injury increases to 10 feet. Dimension Door (once per rest). The arcanax casts dimension door. The arcanax teleports from its current location to any other spot within 500 feet, arriving at exactly the spot desired. It can be a place it can see, visualize, or describe by stating distance and direction. It can bring along objects as long as their weight doesn’t exceed what they can carry, and can bring along one willing creature of its size or smaller who is carrying gear up to its carrying capacity. The creature must be within 5 feet of the arcanax when it casts the spell. If it would arrive in a place already occupied by an object or creature, it and any creature traveling with it each take 14 (4d6) force damage, and the spell fails to teleport them. Thunderwave. The arcanax casts thunderwave. Each creature in a 15-foot cube originating from the arcanax must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet away from the arcanax. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed. In addition, unsecured objects that are completely within the area of effect are automatically pushed 10 feet away from the arcanax by the spell’s effect, and the spell emits a thunderous boom audible out to 300 feet.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (dragon)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

