# Archmage of Fierna

**description**: Archmage Archmages are powerful (and usually quite old) spellcasters dedicated to the study of the arcane arts. Benevolent ones counsel kings and queens, while evil ones rule as tyrants and pursue lichdom. Those who are neither good nor evil sequester⁠ themselves in remote towers to practice their magic without interruption. An archmage typically has one or more apprentice mages, and an archmage’s abode has numerous magical wards and guardians to discourage interlopers. Diabolical Cults of Fierna Fierna is a master manipulator. Mortals who desire success in love or who seek to become beloved leaders at the head of a band of fanatics are drawn to striking bargains with her. Goals: Control over the emotions of others, turning them into puppets and playthings Typical Cultist: Acolyte, archmage, bandit captain, cult fanatic, cultist, knight, noble, priest, spy Signature Spells: Friends (cantrip), charm person (1st level), suggestion (2nd level), hypnotic pattern (3rd level) Her cultists can gain the Infernal Loyalty trait. Cult leaders can also gain the Loyalty beyond Death trait. Variant: Familiars Any spellcaster that can cast the find familiar spell (such as an archmage or mage) is likely to have a familiar. The familiar can be one of the creatures described in the spell (see the Player’s Handbook ) or some other Tiny monster, such as a crawling claw, imp, pseudodragon, or quasit. Traits Infernal Loyalty. This creature has advantage on saving throws while it can see a creature within 30 feet of it that has the Loyalty beyond Death trait. Magic Resistance⁠. The archmage has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. The archmage is an 18th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). The archmage⁠ can cast disguise self and invisibility at will and has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): fire bolt, light, mage hand, prestidigitation, shocking grasp 1st level (4 slots): detect magic, identify, mage armor* , magic missile 2nd level (3 slots): detect thoughts, mirror image, misty step 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, fly, lightning bolt 4th level (3 slots): banishment, fire shield, stoneskin * 5th level (3 slots): cone of cold, scrying, wall of force 6th level (1 slot): globe of invulnerability 7th level (1 slot): teleport 8th level (1 slot): mind blank * 9th level (1 slot): time stop * The archmage casts these spells on itself before combat. Actions Dagger (Melee). Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Dagger (Ranged). Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Fire Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d10) fire damage. A flammable object hit by this spell ignites if it isn't being worn or carried. Shocking Grasp. Melee Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range touch, one target. Hit: 16 (4d8) lightning damage. The archmage has advantage on the attack roll if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit, the target can’t take reactions until the start of its next turn. Reactions Loyalty beyond Death (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As a reaction when an ally this creature can see is reduced to 0 hit points, that ally is instead reduced to 1 hit point and gains temporary hit points equal to this creature’s Charisma score + half its number of Hit Dice.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Any Race)
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any alignment
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

