# Archon, Ursan

**description**: This two-legged polar bear unfurls wings as snowy as its body. It swings a greataxe in a blur of motion that produces a whirring sound. Bearfolk stories include legends about solitary bearfolk who held back the tide of evil, giving their clans a chance to escape or rally. In return for their sacrifice, these bearfolk became ursan archons, earning the reward of pursuing an eternal battle against evil. Some of these archons break ranks to return to their former homes and battle the supernatural and mundane threats against their onetime comrades and family. Persistent Warriors. Ursan archons are fearless combatants and relentless in battle. They absorb otherwise fatal blows and continue fighting. An archon's defiance inspires others in combat, bolstering them to keep up the fight regardless of the apparent odds. Bloodlust. Ursan archons sometimes don't know when to give up, retreat, and return with reinforcements. The archons hold only themselves to this impossible standard and don't chastise others who exercise the better part of valor. They relish driving back their enemies and become overconfident when pushing their advantage. This often makes them susceptible to cunning combat tactics, especially where an opponent holds an archon's focus while another slips past unseen. Celestial Weapons. The ursan archon's weapon attacks are magical. When the ursan archon hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4d8 force damage (included in the attack). Immortal Nature. The ursan archon doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Magic Resistance. The ursan archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Reckless. At the start of its turn, the ursan archon can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls it makes during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Relentless (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If the ursan archon takes 30 damage or less that would reduce it to 0 hp, it is reduced to 1 hp instead. Actions Multiattack. The ursan archon makes two Greataxe attacks. When Thunderous Roar is available, it can use the roar in place of one Greataxe attack. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) force damage. Thunderous Roar (Recharge 5-6). The ursan archon unleashes a terrifying roar in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, each hostile creature within 60 feet of the archon that can hear it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. Creatures in the 30-foot cone have disadvantage on this saving throw. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Reactions Rallying Roar. When the ursan archon reduces a creature to 0 hp, it can utter a triumphant roar. Each friendly creature within 60 feet of the archon that is frightened, paralyzed, stunned, or unconscious has advantage on its next saving throw. A friendly creature without those conditions has advantage on its next attack roll. In addition, each friendly creature within 60 feet of the archon that can hear the roar gains 14 (4d6) temporary hp.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

