# Arch-Devil Arbeyach

**description**: The rulers of Hell are the arch-devils, some arch-dukes and princes, others mere barons—but all with great longing to advance themselves and seize power. Arbeyach, Prince of Swarms This gaunt old man—unwashed, disheveled, clad in ragged pants and a tattered coat, with stringy gray hair and yellow skin—stands nearly eight feet tall. Beneath his shredded clothing, his flesh hangs in strips from his bones, revealing innards swarming with insects. Lord of Decay. The Prince of Swarms is the slow creep of decay; the worm and the locust that feed on life and death alike. He is the disinterested order that stamps out all voices that dare speak against the customs of the hive. Even among the unyielding denizens of the Hells, Arbeyach is exceptionally rigid. He finds disorder painful and disobedience enraging. His lairs and his minions all follow the model of the hive, with each and every member obeying a specific function. Born of Flies. Arbeyach was created by Beelzebub when the Lord of Lies and Flies spat forth a cloud of vermin, that they might consume for him the first mortal soul to arrive in the Hells. The cloud’s essence melded with those souls and became something unique: a being of terrible power that called itself Arbeyach. The self-styled Prince of Swarms has little interest in mortals, viewing the Material Plane not as a source of souls but as a chaos to be wiped clean and set to order. A Fading Power. As the eons passed, Arbeyach’s interests and ambitions deviated further from those of the Hellish lords around him. He grows ever more unyielding, ever more alien. Eventually, those below and those above him expelled the Prince of Swarms from power; none can say whether Arbeyach allowed himself to be deposed. He was once nearly as powerful as the Arch-Dukes, but time and habit have weakened him so that now he is scarcely greater than the pit fiends. If he fails to molt and shed his carapace of familiar habits, his many foes need only wait for an opportune moment to destroy him forever. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day): If Arbeyach fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance: Arbeyach has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons: Arbeyach’s weapon attacks are magical. Innate Spellcasting: Arbeyach’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 22, +14 to hit with spell attacks). Arbeyach can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: poison spray 3/day each: fog cloud, stinking cloud 1/day each: cloudkill, contagion, insect plague Fear Aura: Any creature hostile to Arbeyach that starts its turn within 20 feet of it must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw, unless Arbeyach is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to Arbeyach’s Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Aura of Virulence: Creatures that would normally be resistant or immune to poison damage or the poisoned condition lose their resistance or immunity while within 120 feet of Arbeyach. All other creatures within 120 feet of Arbeyach have disadvantage on saving throws against effects that cause poison damage or the poisoned condition. Swarm Prince: Arbeyach can communicate with spawns of Arbeyach and all vermin and insects, including swarms and giant varieties, within 120 feet via pheromone transmission. In a hive, this range extends to cover the entire hive. This is a silent and instantaneous mode of communication that only Arbeyach, spawn of Arbeyach, insects, and vermin can understand. All these creatures follow Arbeyach’s orders and will never harm the devil. Actions Multiattack: Arbeyach makes one bite attack and two claw attacks. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with Arbeyach rot. The cursed target is poisoned, can’t regain hit points, its hit point maximum decreases by 13 [3d8] for every 24 hours that elapse, and vermin attack the creature on sight. If the curse reduces the target’s hit point maximum to 0, the target dies and immediately transforms into a randomly chosen swarm of insects. The curse lasts until removed by the remove curse spell or comparable magic. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. Vermin Breath (Recharge 5–6): Arbeyach exhales vermin in a 120-foot line that’s 10 feet wide. Each creature in the line takes 54 (12d8) poison damage, or half damage with a successful DC 22 Dexterity saving throw. Each creature that fails this saving throw must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with Arbeyach rot (see the Bite attack). In addition, Arbeyach summons a swarm of insects (of any type) at any point of the line. The swarm remains until destroyed, until Arbeyach dismisses it as a bonus action, or for 2 minutes. No more than five swarms of insects can be summoned at the same time. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Move: Arbeyach moves up to half its speed, using any movement mode it wishes. Poison: Arbeyach targets a creature within 120 feet. If the target isn’t poisoned, it must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned. The poisoned target repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spell (Costs 2 Actions): Arbeyach casts a spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

