# Archmage of Mephistopheles

**description**: Archmage Archmages are powerful (and usually quite old) spellcasters dedicated to the study of the arcane arts. Benevolent ones counsel kings and queens, while evil ones rule as tyrants and pursue lichdom. Those who are neither good nor evil sequester⁠ themselves in remote towers to practice their magic without interruption. An archmage typically has one or more apprentice mages, and an archmage’s abode has numerous magical wards and guardians to discourage interlopers. Diabolical Cults of Mephistopheles As a master of the arcane arts, Mephistopheles finds eager recruits among those who study magic. Any monsters that use spells, such as storm giants⁠ and oni, might follow him, and wizards’ guilds and conclaves of sages are the most likely to come under his influence. Goals: Magical skill and power, backed with the will to use it to crush rivals Typical Cultist: Archmage, cult fanatic, cultist, mage, priest Signature Spells: Fire bolt (cantrip), burning hands (1st level), flaming sphere (2nd level), fireball (3rd level) Mephistopheles’s cultists can gain the Spell Shield⁠ trait. Cult leaders can also gain the Spell Leech trait. Variant: Familiars Any spellcaster that can cast the find familiar spell (such as an archmage or mage) is likely to have a familiar. The familiar can be one of the creatures described in the spell (see the Player’s Handbook ) or some other Tiny monster, such as a crawling claw, imp, pseudodragon, or quasit. Traits Magic Resistance⁠. The archmage has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. The archmage is an 18th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). The archmage⁠ can cast disguise self and invisibility at will and has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): fire bolt, light, mage hand, prestidigitation, shocking grasp 1st level (4 slots): detect magic, identify, Mage Armor* , magic missile 2nd level (3 slots): detect thoughts, mirror image, misty step 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, fly, lightning bolt 4th level (3 slots): banishment, fire shield, stoneskin * 5th level (3 slots): cone of cold, scrying, wall of force 6th level (1 slot): globe of invulnerability 7th level (1 slot): teleport 8th level (1 slot): mind blank * 9th level (1 slot): time stop * The archmage casts these spells on itself before combat. Spell Shield⁠. This creature gains advantage on saving throws against spells. If it succeeds on such a saving throw, it gains temporary hit points equal to the spell’s level. Spell Leech. As a bonus action⁠, this creature chooses one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. The target loses its lowest-level spell slot, and this creature gains it. Actions Dagger (Melee). Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Dagger (Ranged). Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Fire Bolt⁠. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d10) fire damage. A flammable object hit by this spell ignites if it isn't being worn or carried. Shocking Grasp⁠. Melee Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range touch, one target. Hit: 16 (4d8) lightning damage. The archmage has advantage on the attack roll if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit, the target can’t take reactions until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Any Race)
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any alignment
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

