# Archduke Zariel of Avernus

**description**: Once a mighty angel charged with watching the tides of the Blood War, Zariel succumbed to the corrupting influence of the Nine Hells and fell from grace. Asmodeus admired Zariel’s passion for war and offered her rulership of Avernus. She accepted his offer and was transformed by Asmodeus into an archdevil. Zariel’s “rise” came at the expense of Bel, her pit fiend predecessor. Zariel and Bel hate each other. To keep Bel busy and out of her sight, Zariel tasks him with forging weapons, armor, and gruesome demon-slaying machines. To replenish her legions, Zariel needs the souls of mortals to create lemures, which she can then promote to higher forms of devils. Only by tempting mortals with power on the Material Plane and striking bargains with them can she bind them to her in the afterlife. Matalotok. Zariel recently defeated the demon lord Kostchtchie and took his hammer, Matalotok , which grants Zariel immunity to cold damage. Without this hammer, Zariel has resistance to cold damage instead. Traits Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede Zariel’s darkvision. Fiery Weapons. Zariel’s weapon attacks are magical. When she hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 36 (8d8) fire damage (included in the weapon attacks below). Innate Spellcasting. Zariel’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 26). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing her appearance), detect evil and good, fireball, invisibility (self only), wall of fire 3/day each: blade barrier, dispel evil and good, finger of death Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Zariel fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Zariel has advantage on saving throw against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. Zariel regains 20 hit points at the start of her turn. If she takes radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of her next turn. Zariel dies only if she starts her turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Actions Multiattack. Zariel attacks twice with her flail and once with Matalotok. She can substitute Horrid Touch for Matalotok. Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) piercing damage plus 36 (8d8) fire damage. Matalotok (Warhammer). Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage, or 19 (2d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage when used with two hands, plus 36 (8d8) fire damage. In addition, the weapon emits a burst of cold that deals 10 (3d6) cold damage to each creature within 30 feet of it. Horrid Touch (Recharge 5–6). Zariel touches one creature within 10 feet of her. The target must succeed on a DC 26 Constitution saving throw or take 44 (8d10) necrotic damage and be poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the target is blinded and deafened. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Teleport. Zariel magically teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space she can see. Legendary Actions Zariel can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Zariel regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Immolating Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). Zariel turns her magical gaze toward one creature she can see within 120 feet of her and commands it to combust. The target must succeed on a DC 26 Wisdom saving throw or take 22 (4d10) fire damage. Teleport. Zariel uses her Teleport action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28744
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Baldur's Gate - Descent into Avernus

