# Ardherin, the Sorcerer of Shadow

**description**: Ardherin of Erethor was a sorcerer of exceptional power and knowledge. He was also a trusted advisor to Aradil, the elven high queen, and for more than three hundred years he was her beloved consort. Through much of the Third Age, Ardherin stood as the Witch Queen’s greatest ally. He had her trust and her love, and he served her with devotion. Ardherin was a master of the dangerous art of conjuration and was dedicated to protecting his people from the many demonic forces that allied themselves with the Shadow and stalked the Great Forest of Erethor. He was often called upon to hunt the most powerful demons and so was frequently forced to confront evil in its purest and most dangerous forms. He also created many of the arcane defenses that protected the major settlements in Erethor and for his great magics and brave vigilance was considered a living hero among the elven people. In the year 890 TA, as the threat of Izrador was again on the rise, Erethor was suffering increased infestation by demonic forces. On one of his spirit­hunting forays, Ardherin captured a lesser devil and bound it to his service, keeping it held within a protective ward in his laboratory. The spirit called itself Vard, which means “the servant” in the Shadow Tongue. Over time, Ardherin became confident of his control over Vard and grew accustomed to its presence. In spare moments, he would converse with the creature to learn more of its kin and kind. Vard appeared weak and fearful and offered many secrets in exchange for assurances it would not be destroyed. Vard was not what it seemed. In fact, it was a spirit under the direct control of Izrador. The Shadow had enthralled the tiny devil and sent it into Erethor and into one of Ardherin’s countless spirit weirs. Vard submitted easily to the elven conjuror’s control and imprisonment. In time, familiarity bred complacency, and Ardherin not only ceased to be wary of the creature but grew to value its advice. Vard ingratiated itself into the elven sorcerer’s confidence by offering knowledge that helped the wizard catch or destroy dozens of formidable spirits. Against the admonitions of his colleagues and Aradil herself, Ardherin chose not to destroy the creature. In the end, this would prove his undoing. In 895 TA, Izrador sent a host of twelve mighty demons rampaging through the Veradeen. Ardherin consulted with his colleagues, his notes and lorebooks, and the helpful Vard, and then he traveled to northern Erethor to battle the threat. Ardherin laid a powerful, sorcerous trap for the demon horde, adding wards that Vard had taught him. When the elven wizard moved to spring the magical snare, he found himself bound instead. He had become a summoned creature, and like the demons he had so often trapped, he had become bound to a greater power: Izrador himself. The demon horde spirited Ardherin away to the presence of the Shadow, where the great elven sorcerer was lost to a nightmare of torture and magical transformation that left him at once destroyed and reborn. When some measure of sanity returned to his mind, he had become one of the immortal Night Kings. His body had been reformed into a terrible apparition of his original elven form. Ardherin, the servant of Shadow, retains the general build of his kind but is even more slender—almost gaunt. His skin is the flawless white of the snow of the Vale of Tears, and his eyes burn with the red fire of hell. His new form is immune to the blades of warriors and practically glows with arcane power. Ardherin’s mind had been transformed as well. No longer the Protector of Caradul, Advisor to the Queen, and Consort of Aradil, Ardherin has become as foul and corrupt of soul as any of Izrador’s minions. He serves the Shadow willingly and has been infected with the same hatred for the fey that lives in the souls of Izrador’s orcs. The memories of his past as an elf lord only serve to fill him with fury and fuel his resolve to destroy the Great Forest. Ardherin is Izrador’s master of magic and the arcane hand with which the Shadow counters the sorceries of the Witch Queen. Like the kurasatch udareen, his channeled magic is made innate through Izrador’s power, so he may cast spells near black mirrors with impunity. The elven Night King has betrayed every secret of the elven wood and its defenses to Izrador, and the elves have suffered for this treachery. Ardherin, once the Demon Bane of Erethor, has now become simply Erethor’s Bane. Ardherin spends most of his time at the Erethor front, advising the legate generals who command the armies fighting the elves. He controls the Shadow’s demon hordes and works ceaselessly to summon mightier forms and enhance the destructive power of those already haunting the forest. Ardherin also strives to nullify the powers of his former lover and nemesis, Aradil. What he lacks in comparative knowledge and magical skill, he more than makes up for in the raw arcane power at his disposal. Secretly, Aradil fears that Ardherin’s sorcerous strength will be the doom of elvenkind. Only Aradil and her closest advisors know the fate that has befallen Ardherin. While the rest of the elven people believe he fell battling demons and mourn his loss, Aradil fears what will happen when some lesser sorcerer learns through divinations or spirit spies that one of the elves’ greatest heroes is now its greatest enemy. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Ardherin fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Shadow’s Sorcerer. Ardherin always passes saving throws to maintain concentration and may concentrate on any number of spells simultaneously. Spellcasting. Ardherin is a 20th level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). Ardherin can cast counterspell at will and has the following spells prepared. Cantrips (at will): chill touch, light, poison spray, ray of frost 1st level (4 slots): mage armor*, magic missile, witch bolt 2nd level (3 slots): blur*, crown of madness, misty step 3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, haste, lightning bolt 4th level (3 slots): confusion, ice storm, stoneskin* 5th level (3 slots): cloudkill, cone of cold, wall of stone 6th level (2 slots): chain lightning, eyebite 7th level (2 slots): etherealness, reverse gravity 8th level (1 slot): earthquake 9th level (1 slot): power word kill *Ardherin casts these spells on himself before combat. Actions Adjutant (Magical Staff). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage and 18 (4d8) cold damage. Charm Foe (Recharge 4-6). Ardherin selects one creature within 60 feet that can see him. That creature must make a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by Ardherin. At the end of each of the creature’s turns, it can make Wisdom saving throw to end the effect. However, if it fails three saves in a row, it is permanently charmed and can only be cured with a greater restoration spell. Ultimate Power (Recharge 5-6). Ardherin casts two spells. Each spell must have a listed casting time of one action or one bonus action. Legendary Actions Ardherin can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options listed here. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Ardherin regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Cast Cantrip. Ardherin casts a cantrip. Unnatural Speed. Ardherin moves up to his movement speed. Until the end of his movement, he can’t be targeted by opportunity attacks. Summon Bound Demon (Costs 2 actions). Ardherin unleashes one of the many fiends he has bound to his service. A demon of CR 6 or less appears in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of Ardherin, and acts as his ally. Lair Actions Ardherin maintains several laboratories where he may continue his studies of the arcane, but his foremost fastness is a hidden library of dark lore and foul spellbooks. The library is somewhere along the southern coast of the Sea of Pelluria, and the location is only known to Ardherin and some of his minions, each of whom is so thoroughly charmed and enthralled that they would die rather than reveal the location. All anyone knows is that the library can only be accessed from the sea at low tide, and that supposedly a small tunnel opens into a vast, twisting maze of underground caverns that have been converted for Ardherin’s purposes. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Ardherin takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Ardherin can’t take the same lair action twice in a row. The whispers of unseen demons touch the mind of one creature within 200 feet of Ardherin. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on all saving throws until initiative count 20 on the next round. Magical darkness spreads from a point Ardherin chooses within 120 feet of him, filling a 15-foot-radius sphere until Ardherin dismisses it with an action, uses this lair action again, or dies. The darkness spreads around corners. A creature with darkvision can’t see through this darkness, and nonmagical light can’t illuminate it. If any of the effect’s area overlaps with an area of light created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell that created the light is dispelled. The temperature of the air drops sharply in a 15-foot radius centered on a point on the ground that Ardherin can see within 60 feet. Each creature in that radius must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) cold damage and reducing its movement speed by 10 feet on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity (night king)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 25

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

