# Argyros Knight

**description**: When an adept has become an expert in both martial arts and in Silver Soul magic, they are invited to partake in a duel with one of the generals of the Knights. If they are able to impress their opponent, then the adept is offered the chance to be Knighted and become a true Argyros Knight. The Knighting ceremony sees the adept stripped of their armor and weapons, painted with ancient draconic symbols and imbued with the ambient magic of the world. Once the ceremony is complete, the adept will have become a full-fledged Knight. These warriors are considered to have reached near perfection in martial combat and have gained an even deeper understanding of their magic. The Knights are able to summon a variety of powerful spectral weapons to their hands and devastate even the strongest of foes. These Knights serve as elites to the faction and are often deployed in fights where recruits and adepts would surely struggle. The Argyros Knights The Argyros Knights are a rather young but powerful faction that was founded in the northern reaches of the continent. They are an amalgamation of several small northern tribes, factions and the remnant forces of former religious orders unified under one banner. It is led by two individuals: The Ancient Silver Dragon Urleon, the former leader of the Silver Order, a spiritual order created over a thousand years ago which had been destroyed by an invasion led by agents of a chromatic dragon cult. The original founder of the Knights, Morozko. Known by his close friends as Frost, he is an Aaracockra warrior that was raised by a silver dragon. He decided to build this faction after spending years living in fear of the White Dragons that held dominion over the Northern reaches. Aside from these two, the Faction is led by a council of Generals. High ranking members of the faction who all hold equal power amongst each other. The council encourages active debate and stratagems amongst itself. Only Urleon has the power to overturn a decision if he sees a reason to. The Argyros Knights wield a mysterious magic known as “ The Silver Soul ” that grants them uniquely powerful boons. The source of this magic is rather mysterious, but it is suggested that the power may be a gift from the Silver Dragons to their most loyal followers. Morozko was, at least to any researching scholars, the first mortal creature to exhibit this ability. This “ Silver Soul ” amplifies the raw power of simple magic, such as cantrips, to terrifying degrees. But in return, the users can never access higher tier magic spells under their own power. Trained by the Silver. These noble warriors are trained to uphold the values represented by the vast majority of silver dragons. They are strictly a force of lawful good warriors. These warriors very often are seen with Silver dragons in some form or another, be it fighting alongside a dragon, to summoning their own silver pseudo dragons for support. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Arcane Surge (Recharges after a short or long Rest). When the knight deals damage with a cantrip they can choose to double the number of damage dice rolled. However, this ability cannot be used on a critical hit. Expert Aim. Being within 5 feet of a hostile creature doesn't impose disadvantage on the knight's ranged spell attack rolls. Silver Mind. The knight has advantage on saving throws against the charmed and frightened conditions. Silver Scales. The knight can add half of their Intelligence modifier to their AC Silver Spark. The knight can add their Intelligence modifier to one damage roll of any spell attack. Soul Step. The knight can spend their movement to teleport a number of feet equal to half their speed in any direction they can see. Actions Multiattack. The knight makes four spectral weapon attacks. They can replace one spectral weapon attack with a cantrip. Spectral Weapon. Melee Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) force damage. Silver Fire Bolt (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 120ft., one target. Hit: 27 (4d10 + 5) fire damage. Silver Ray of Frost (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8 + 5) cold damage. On a hit, the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the knight's next turn. Spectral Weapon Barrage (Recharge 5-6). The knight summons an armory's worth of spectral weaponry which floats around them in a 30-foot radius. The knight proceeds to savagely attack anything within this space, teleporting from weapon to weapon. Any creature in the area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 45 (10d8) force damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Bonus Actions Knight's Ward (Recharges after a short or long Rest). The knight gains 40 temporary hit points. These temporary hit points last for 1 minute.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

