# Argyros Dragon Knight

**description**: The highest rank a mortal can reach in the Argyros Knights. A Dragon Knight is a member of the order who is able to hunt and kill a white dragon with little to no help from their peers. A knight who is successful in this endeavor will be offered the opportunity to become a Dragon Knight, or continue on as a regular member of the order. Even if they refuse their feat will likely lead them a promotion to a higher rank, up to the rank of general. Those who accept to become Dragon Knights are given a cloak made from the hide of the dragon they slew as well as a meeting with Urleon himself. The dragon knight is infused with Urleon’s blood, breaking the knight's mortal limits. The Dragon Knight will gain silver, draconic eyes and their bodies become far stronger than what would normally be possible. Their skin will be covered in a layer of silver scales and will even be able to sprout dragon wings from their backs. The Dragon Knights are a small army unto themselves. Masters of martial combat with deadly magics at their disposal. Seen on the battlefield with huge, silver dragon wings and breathing plumes of deadly ice breath upon their foes. The weapons they summon rain down upon their enemies like an arcane shower of blades and spears. The Argyros Dragon Knights are only ever called to battle if a situation is dire and victory is not possible without their intervention. They are devoted to their duty and have almost indomitable willpower, not easily swayed by trickery or deceptions. This, however, costs the Dragon Knight their ability to connect with outsiders For some reason, those who have accepted the pact find it difficult to relate to those beyond the order, even if they were friends or family before the metamorphosis took place. Their only true connections are with their brothers and sisters on the battlefield. The Argyros Knights The Argyros Knights are a rather young but powerful faction that was founded in the northern reaches of the continent. They are an amalgamation of several small northern tribes, factions and the remnant forces of former religious orders unified under one banner. It is led by two individuals: The Ancient Silver Dragon Urleon, the former leader of the Silver Order, a spiritual order created over a thousand years ago which had been destroyed by an invasion led by agents of a chromatic dragon cult. The original founder of the Knights, Morozko. Known by his close friends as Frost, he is an Aaracockra warrior that was raised by a silver dragon. He decided to build this faction after spending years living in fear of the White Dragons that held dominion over the Northern reaches. Aside from these two, the Faction is led by a council of Generals. High ranking members of the faction who all hold equal power amongst each other. The council encourages active debate and stratagems amongst itself. Only Urleon has the power to overturn a decision if he sees a reason to. The Argyros Knights wield a mysterious magic known as “ The Silver Soul ” that grants them uniquely powerful boons. The source of this magic is rather mysterious, but it is suggested that the power may be a gift from the Silver Dragons to their most loyal followers. Morozko was, at least to any researching scholars, the first mortal creature to exhibit this ability. This “ Silver Soul ” amplifies the raw power of simple magic, such as cantrips, to terrifying degrees. But in return, the users can never access higher tier magic spells under their own power. Trained by the Silver. These noble warriors are trained to uphold the values represented by the vast majority of silver dragons. They are strictly a force of lawful good warriors. These warriors very often are seen with Silver dragons in some form or another, be it fighting alongside a dragon, to summoning their own silver pseudo dragons for support. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the dragon knight fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Arcane Surge (Recharges after a short or long rest). When the dragon knight deals damage with a cantrip they can choose to double the number of damage dice rolled. However, this ability cannot be used on a critical hit. Expert Aim. Being within 5 feet of a hostile creature doesn't impose disadvantage on the knight's ranged spell attack rolls. Silver Dragon Hide. The dragon knight can add their Intelligence modifier to their AC. Silver Mind. The dragon knight has advantage on saving throws against the charmed and frightened conditions. Soul Spark. The dragon knight can add their Intelligence modifier to one damage roll of any spell attack. Soul Step. The dragon knight can spend their movement to teleport a number of feet equal to half their speed in any direction they can see. Actions Multiattack. The dragon knight makes four spectral weapon attacks. They can replace one spectral weapon attack with a cantrip. Spectral Weapon. Melee Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d10 + 6) force damage. Silver Fire Bolt (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 120ft., one target. Hit: 27 (5d10 + 6) fire damage. Silver Ray of Frost (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 23 (5d8 + 6) cold damage. On a hit, the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the knight's next turn. Cold Breath (Recharge 5-6). The dragon knight exhales an icy blast in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 63 (14d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Knight's Ward (Recharges after a short or long Rest). The knight gains 60 temporary hit points. These temporary hit points last for 1 minute. Reactions Arcane Deflection (Recharges after a short or long Rest). When the dragon knight makes a successful saving throw against a spell, they can redirect the spell's effect to a new target. The dragon knight chooses another creature within the spell's range, which can include the spellcaster. The spell targets the chosen creature, which must make the appropriate DC 20 saving throw. Legendary Actions Argyros Dragon Knight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Argyros Dragon Knight regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The dragon knight can move up to their speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. The dragon knight can make a spectral weapon attack. Spectral Weapon Rain (Costs 2 actions). The dragon knight magically creates an outpour of spectral weapons that fall from the sky, which can strike four creatures the dragon knight can see within 120 feet of them. A target must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

