# Argyros Adept

**description**: An Argyros warrior who has started their path towards becoming a dragon knight. Not only are their skills with a weapon sharper than a recruit’s, they have begun to awaken their dragon soul, giving them the ability to cast magic and summon a spectral weapon to their hand. Adepts make up the majority of the fighting force for the Argyros Knights. When the order deploys their forces on a large-scale battleground, the adepts are the ones making up the numbers. The life of an adept is constant self-betterment in their skills. Every challenge they face will at least be attempted, and one would be hard pressed to find even a single challenge that was completely abandoned. The Argyros Knights The Argyros Knights are a rather young but powerful faction that was founded in the northern reaches of the continent. They are an amalgamation of several small northern tribes, factions and the remnant forces of former religious orders unified under one banner. It is led by two individuals: The Ancient Silver Dragon Urleon, the former leader of the Silver Order, a spiritual order created over a thousand years ago which had been destroyed by an invasion led by agents of a chromatic dragon cult. The original founder of the Knights, Morozko. Known by his close friends as Frost, he is an Aaracockra warrior that was raised by a silver dragon. He decided to build this faction after spending years living in fear of the White Dragons that held dominion over the Northern reaches. Aside from these two, the Faction is led by a council of Generals. High ranking members of the faction who all hold equal power amongst each other. The council encourages active debate and stratagems amongst itself. Only Urleon has the power to overturn a decision if he sees a reason to. The Argyros Knights wield a mysterious magic known as “ The Silver Soul ” that grants them uniquely powerful boons. The source of this magic is rather mysterious, but it is suggested that the power may be a gift from the Silver Dragons to their most loyal followers. Morozko was, at least to any researching scholars, the first mortal creature to exhibit this ability. This “ Silver Soul ” amplifies the raw power of simple magic, such as cantrips, to terrifying degrees. But in return, the users can never access higher tier magic spells under their own power. Trained by the Silver. These noble warriors are trained to uphold the values represented by the vast majority of silver dragons. They are strictly a force of lawful good warriors. These warriors very often are seen with Silver dragons in some form or another, be it fighting alongside a dragon, to summoning their own silver pseudo dragons for support. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Arcane Surge (Recharges after a short or long Rest). When the adept deals damage with a cantrip they can choose to double the number of damage dice rolled. However, this ability cannot be used on a critical hit. Silver Scales. The adept can add half of their Intelligence modifier to their AC. Silver Spark. The adept can add their Intelligence modifier to one damage roll of any spell attack. Actions Multiattack. The adept makes three spectral weapon attacks. They can replace one spectral weapon attack with a cantrip. Spectral Weapon. Melee Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) force damage. Silver Fire Bolt (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 120ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d10 + 4) fire damage. Silver Ray of Frost (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) cold damage. On a hit, the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the adept's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

