# Argyros Recruit

**description**: These are the newest recruits to the Argyros Knights faction. While they lack the spectacular magic of their superiors, these warriors are far above the skill of your average swordsman. They are selected from the most promising warriors that seek the order. Once they have been chosen, the recruit will begin their training. Learning new martial arts while also studying the magical force of the Silver Soul . The Argyros Knights The Argyros Knights are a rather young but powerful faction that was founded in the northern reaches of the continent. They are an amalgamation of several small northern tribes, factions and the remnant forces of former religious orders unified under one banner. It is led by two individuals: The Ancient Silver Dragon Urleon, the former leader of the Silver Order, a spiritual order created over a thousand years ago which had been destroyed by an invasion led by agents of a chromatic dragon cult. The original founder of the Knights, Morozko. Known by his close friends as Frost, he is an Aaracockra warrior that was raised by a silver dragon. He decided to build this faction after spending years living in fear of the White Dragons that held dominion over the Northern reaches. Aside from these two, the Faction is led by a council of Generals. High ranking members of the faction who all hold equal power amongst each other. The council encourages active debate and stratagems amongst itself. Only Urleon has the power to overturn a decision if he sees a reason to. The Argyros Knights wield a mysterious magic known as “ The Silver Soul ” that grants them uniquely powerful boons. The source of this magic is rather mysterious, but it is suggested that the power may be a gift from the Silver Dragons to their most loyal followers. Morozko was, at least to any researching scholars, the first mortal creature to exhibit this ability. This “ Silver Soul ” amplifies the raw power of simple magic, such as cantrips, to terrifying degrees. But in return, the users can never access higher tier magic spells under their own power. Trained by the Silver. These noble warriors are trained to uphold the values represented by the vast majority of silver dragons. They are strictly a force of lawful good warriors. These warriors very often are seen with Silver dragons in some form or another, be it fighting alongside a dragon, to summoning their own silver pseudo dragons for support. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Silver Spark. The recruit can add their Intelligence modifier to one damage roll of any spell attack. Actions Multiattack. The recruit makes two weapon attacks. It can replace one weapon attack with a cantrip. Longsword (One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage. Longsword (Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage. Silver Fire Bolt (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 120ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) fire damage. Silver Ray of Frost (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) cold damage. On a hit, the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the recruit's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

