# Aristokai

**description**: The gods are present in many aspects of the world. One of these aspects is the wildlife present in the material plane. Just like Zeus is represented by the eagle and Athena by the owl, other beasts represent the domain of many gods. And sometimes these beasts can grow into something more than a symbol, touching divinity in some way, shape or form. Aristokai are representatives of the domain of healing that Apollo represents. These celestials bear an appearance very similar to that of a small rat, however they have a clean and flawless coat of gulden fur and their head is hidden by what seems to be a raven skull. Furthermore, their tail is covered in some sort of natural armor and is capable of attacking by using the arrowtip-like end, similar to a scorpion’s stinger. They have a very unique nature that compels them to actually seek out and accompany the sick and injured. If the person or creature they approach proves to be kind they use their innate magic to help them. If they can’t help them, they keep them company in an attempt to bring them comfort. Additionally, these creatures have a really particular diet, as they seek poisonous and venomous sources of nutrition almost exclusively. As such they are great at locating dangerous flowers, berries and animals. Finally, they can often be found by taverns and temples where music is commonplace. The spectacle presented by performers entrances them, especially if bright colors are on display. Rumors and Stigmas. Due to their habit of approaching the sick and injured they are believed to be bringers of plague and symbols of Apollo’s discontent. For this they are treated as pests by those who don’t know any better. Variant: Aristokai Familiar Aristokai can be found in the service of traveling healers, faithful of Apollo and even heroes who they perceive as pure of heart. Some such aristokai have the following trait. Familiar. The aristokai can enter into an agreement to serve another creature as a familiar, forming a telepathic bond with its willing master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense what the aristokai senses as long as they are within 1 mile of each other. While the aristokai is within 10 feet of its master, the master shares the aristokai’s Blessed by the Sun trait. At any time and for any reason, the aristokai can end its service as a familiar, ending the telepathic bond. "Why do people think they're creepy? Look at them, they're so sweet." -Sanafyn Tianrelle, Hunter Ranger and Champion of Apollo Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Keen Smell . The aristokai has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Healer's Senses. The aristokai can detect any injured or diseased creature within 60 feet of it. Blessed by the Sun. The aristokai is under the effect of the bless spell as long as it is in sunlight. Spellcasting. The aristokai's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: light, spare the dying 2/day each: cure wounds 1/day each: lesser restoration Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +0 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 1 piercing damage. Sting of Affliction: Melee Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. The target must succeed on a DC 12 constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more the target becomes diseased, taking a level of exhaustion as a result. The disease fades after a long rest is taken.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 1/8

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

