# Ashari Waverider

**description**: The waveriders of Vesrah know firsthand the dangers of the open ocean and dedicate their lives to protecting seafarers from storms, pirates, and sea monsters. They are not warriors, however, but rather accomplished healers and aquatic empaths, using their powers to seek out and rescue survivors of marine disasters. They sometimes bring critically wounded survivors to Vesrah, a practice that the isolationist Water Ashari condemn for fear that such outsiders threaten their way of life. The waveriders take their peers’ scorn in stride, for they would rather be righteous than popular. A waverider turns to violence only as a last resort, preferring to fight in their shapechanged fishform rather than with harpoon in hand. They use hit-and-run tactics as a hunter shark or employ their giant octopus form’s natural camouflage to harry opponents. When patrolling the open seas, waveriders skim across the water on personal waveboards with folding sails, similar in function to the skysails of the Zephrah. Ashari A reclusive society of elementalist druidic masters, the Ashari symbolize the connection between civilization and nature in balance as they govern, heal, and tame Exandria’s primordial threats. Mysterious Beginnings. No one knows the Ashari’s true origins, though one popular legend ties directly to the ancient war between the gods and the primordial titans. As the Prime Deities scattered the essence of their fallen foes across Exandria, the titans’ remains birthed new Elemental Planes. In response, numerous humanoids—who would eventually become part of the Ashari—were gifted with a magical affinity to shape the world and a responsibility to defend against future primordial threats. Triumph Divided. A multiracial people, the Ashari strategically organize into four distinct communities—the Fire Ashari of Pyrah, the Air Ashari of Zephrah, the Earth Ashari of Terrah, and the Water Ashari of Vesrah. Each community builds homes alongside sources of elemental power. Primordial Guardians. The walls between the Material Plane and the Elemental Planes are thin, and if those boundaries are tested, they tear asunder and form rifts. These planar fractures hemorrhage vast fields of wildfire, avalanches of crushing stone, boundless expanses of screeching hurricanes, and unending oceans of pounding tsunamis, all seemingly yearning for destruction. When an elemental rift grows volatile, the Ashari become a living dam—subduing, soothing, and sealing its escaping power. Then, once a rift calms, the Ashari's work to heal the surrounding land begins. Selfless Respect. Ashari is a word found in many languages with a multitude of meanings, including: sunrise, innate will, torchbearer, and gardener. Traits Healing Tides. Whenever the waverider casts a spell of 1st level or higher that affects a nonhostile creature, that creature regains 3 hit points (in addition to any healing the spell may provide). Marine Empathy. The waverider can speak with and understand aquatic plants and animals. Spellcasting. The waverider is a 7th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following druid spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): druidcraft , poison spray (2d12), resistance 1st level (4 slots): create or destroy water, cure wounds, healing word 2nd level (3 slots): animal messenger, lesser restoration, moonbeam 3rd level (3 slots): conjure animals (aquatic beasts only) , water breathing, water walk 4th level (1 slot): control water Actions Harpoon (Melee). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: (1d10+2) piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a Strength contest against the waverider or be pulled up to 20 feet toward the waverider. Attacks with this weapon made while underwater do not have disadvantage. Harpoon (Ranged). Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: (1d10+2) piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a Strength contest against the waverider or be pulled up to 20 feet toward the waverider. Attacks with this weapon made while underwater do not have disadvantage. Reactions Fishform (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The waverider can transform into a hunter shark or a giant octopus. Its game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the chosen creature, but the waverider retains its alignment, personality, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. It also retains its skill proficiencies, in addition to gaining those of the creature it transforms into. When the waverider is reduced to 0 hit points, falls unconscious, or dies in this form, it reverts to its humanoid form. It can remain in fishform for up to 3 hours or until it reverts to its humanoid form as a bonus action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any)
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

