# Ashyra

**description**: Traits Atonement ( 3 /Day). If Ashyra fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. When she does, she must either end the effect of her Ancient Curse on one enemy within 120 feet of her or be dazed until the end of her next turn. Mummy Dust. Whenever Ashyra takes piercing or slashing damage, each creature within 5 feet of her takes 9 (2d8) poison damage. Actions Multiattack. Ashyra makes two attacks using Desiccating Slam, Soul Fire, or both, and she uses Ancient Curse. Desiccating Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target’s speed is reduced to 0, and they can’t regain hit points until the start of Ashyra’s next turn. Soul Fire ( 3 rd-Level Spell). Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d10 + 4) radiant damage, and if the target is a creature, their hit point maximum decreases by a number equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest or is targeted by a cure ailment power of 4th order or higher, a greater restoration spell, or a similar supernatural effect. The target dies if this effect reduces their hit point maximum to 0. Ancient Curse. Ashyra inflicts weakness on one creature she can see within 120 feet of her. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be cursed. While the target is cursed in this way, their attacks deal half damage. The curse lasts until Ashyra chooses to end it or until removed by a cure ailment power, a remove curse spell, or a similar super­natural effect. Bonus Actions Misty Step ( 2 nd-Level Spell). Ashyra teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space she can see. Reactions Weight of Ages. When a creature Ashyra can see within 60 feet of her deals damage to her, Ashyra brings down the weight of ages on them. The creature must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be restrained until the end of their next turn. Villain Actions Ashyra has three villain actions. She can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. She can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Sands of the Ancients. A storm of stinging dirt whirls around Ashyra in a 15-foot-radius until the end of her next turn. For the duration, that area is heavily obscured, and when a creature starts their turn in or enters that area for the first time on a turn, they must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 22 (4d10) necrotic damage. Action 2 : Dust to Dust. Ashyra bursts into a cloud of dust and makes one Desiccating Slam attack against each enemy within 60 feet of her, then she reforms in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of her original location. Action 3 : Last Rites. Ashyra commands the land to entomb her foes. Each enemy within 30 feet of her must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage and is entombed in stone. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and is not entombed. An entombed creature is restrained, has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the stone, and takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage at the end of each of their turns. The creature can be freed if the stone is destroyed (AC 17; 30 hit points; immunity to poison and psychic damage).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

