# Aspect of Yeenoghu

**description**: The god of gnolls, the demon lord Yeenoghu is also known as the Lord of Savagery. Cruel and sadistic, he spreads misery and enjoys inflicting pain on his foes before slaughtering them. For Yeenoghu to grant an Aspect, the petitioner should be a powerful gnoll or flind and must use the Aspect to further the Beast of Butchery's need for murder and destruction. The Aspect of Yeenoghu appears as a 12-foot tall, gaunt gnoll with emaciated features. Its body, which radiates an overpowering and disgusting musky smell, is covered with a leathery hide topped with a dirty orange mane, and protected with garish, spiked armor scraps tied together with chains and decorated with the flayed skin of its progenitor's foes. In combat, the Aspect of Yeenoghu will mostly attack with its flail, never bothering with spells unless the situation warrants it. If given the chance, the Aspect will not immediately kill those it fights. Instead, it will maim them first, then slay and devour those they love in front of them. Only when it has broken its foes will it finish them off. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes three Flail attacks. Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 5 (1d10) force damage. If it is the aspect's turn, the aspect can cause the target to suffer one of the following additional effects, each of which it can apply only once per turn: Confusion. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be affected by the confusion spell until the start of the aspect’s next turn. Force. The target takes an extra 11 (2d10) force damage. Paralysis. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed until the start of the aspect’s next turn. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) acid damage. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: detect magic 1/day each: dispel magic, fear, invisibility, teleport Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The aspect moves up to its speed. Swat Away. The aspect makes one Flail attack. If the attack hits, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet in a straight line away from the aspect. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is also knocked prone. Savage (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect makes a separate Bite attack against each creature within 10 feet of it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

