# Aspect of Kostchtchie

**description**: Kostchtchie will only answer petitions from his frost giant worshipers, and if ever, it doesn't take much effort for as long as it allows the Aspect to unleash its bloodthirsty rage and wreak havoc against as many enemies as possible. The Aspect is nearly identical in size with its progenitor, resembling a cross between an ogre and a frost giant. Its muscular body is squat and rotund and stands about , and its skin is deathly white with shades of icy blue. It wields an almost exact copy of its mighty, oversized warhammer that emanates bluish frost. In combat, the Aspect of Kostchtchie will hardly deviate from its course of action, which is to angrily crush and maim as many foes as it can, hardly casting any spells. The only thing that would cause it to alter its actions is when it spots a challenging opponent. It would then use its curse on its opponent before charging towards it. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two melee attacks, only one of which can be a Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) force damage. Matalotok (Warhammer). Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) force damage, or 17 (2d10 + 6) force damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, and the weapon emits a burst of cold that deals 10 (3d6) cold damage to each creature within 30 feet of it. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: command, darkness 1/day each: dispel evil and good, telekinesis, wind walk Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The aspect moves up to its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect makes one melee weapon attack. Curse (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect curses one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The cursed creature gains vulnerability to all damage dealt by the aspect until the end of the aspect's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

