# Aspect of Demogorgon

**description**: The Aspect of Demogorgon will be about 15 feet in height with a body that of a green-scaled dinosaur with a huge forked tail. Its muscular and hairy torso is topped with two leering simian heads that resemble a cross between a baboon and a mandrill. Of all Aspects, the Aspect of Demogorgon is probably the most difficult to measure and anticipate its actions. Being the embodiment of chaos, madness, and destruction, its worshipers are always taking a huge risk to petition for one. But then again, almost all worshipers of Demogorgon are unhinged, if not totally insane. The Aspect of Demogorgon will act similarly to its progenitor, with its two simian heads not caring where their gaze might land, even if it falls on a loyal worshiper. This is probably why its worshipers will only petition one when they are in desperate need or in a dire situation, such as when their place of worship is attacked by a party of powerful adventurers. In combat, the Aspect of Demogorgon will seemingly appear to employ random attacks, not focusing on any single target. In truth, each of the two heads is simply following its tactical course of action and will not work together unless faced with a strong foe. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Two Heads. The aspect has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, deafened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Tentacle attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Gaze. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d12 + 5) force damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. Gaze. The aspect turns its magical gaze toward one creature that it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or suffer one of the following effects (choose one or roll a d6): 1–2: Beguiling Gaze. The target is stunned until the start of the aspect’s next turn or until the aspect is no longer within line of sight. 3–4: Confusing Gaze. The target suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The effect lasts until the start of the aspect’s next turn. The aspect doesn’t need to concentrate on the spell. 5–6: Hypnotic Gaze. The target is charmed by the aspect until the start of the aspect’s next turn. The aspect chooses how the charmed target uses its action, reaction, and movement. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: detect magic, major image 2/day each: dispel magic, fear, telekinesis Legendary Actions The aspect can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Gaze. The aspect uses Gaze and must use either Beguiling Gaze or Confusing Gaze. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 11 (2d10) necrotic damage. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

