# Aspect of Orcus

**description**: Petitioning Orcus for an Aspect will only have a chance of success if the reason for the petition furthers the goal of the Demon Prince of Undeath, which is the nullification of all life. The Aspect of Orcus stands about 12 feet tall and has a disgusting corpulent body that is covered with animal hair. Its head and legs resemble that of an emaciated giant goat and massive leathery bat-like wings spread from its back. In its hand is a lesser but still potent copy of its dreadful weapon, the Wand of Orcus. The Aspect of Orcus always begins combat by summoning undead before wading into battle. If it finds an opportunity to trap or block targets within melee range from escaping, it will use its Creeping Death ability and cast it centered on its space. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Wand of Orcus, Tail, or Necrotic Bolt attacks. Wand of Orcus. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 13 (2d12) necrotic damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) force damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) necrotic damage. Conjure Undead (1/Day). While holding the Wand of Orcus, the aspect conjures Undead creatures whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 150. These creatures magically rise up from the ground or otherwise form in unoccupied spaces within 150 feet of the aspect and obey his commands until they are destroyed or until he dismisses them as an action. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: detect magic 3/day: animate dead (as an action) 1/day each: blight, circle of death, dispel magic, speak with dead Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Necrotic Bolt. The aspect makes one Necrotic Bolt attack. Tail (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect makes one Tail attack. Creeping Death (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect chooses a point on the ground that it can see within 100 feet of it. A cylinder of swirling necrotic energy 60 feet tall and with a 10-foot radius rises from that point and lasts until the end of the aspect’s next turn. Creatures in that area have vulnerability to necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

