# Aspect of Zuggtmoy

**description**: The Aspect of Zuggtmoy looks like a 14-foot tall fungal creature that has the features of a female humanoid dressed in a faux gown made of lichen and mycelium. Sprouting from its lower torso are fibrous tentacle-like pseudopods that excrete poison. To prepare for a big fight, the Aspect of Zuggtmoy will always create thralls and spore creatures first. Only when it is satisfied that is has enough, will it venture forth to seek its enemies. In combat, the Aspect of Zuggtmoy will lash at and batter its foes with its pseudopods. If it can catch more than two targets, it will release its infestation spores. Those that survive its initial attacks will be subjected to its mind control spores. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes three Pseudopod attacks. Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) force damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: detect magic, locate animals or plants 1/day each: dispel magic, entangle, plant growth, teleport Bonus Actions Infestation Spores (3/Day). The aspect releases spores that burst out in a cloud that fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on her, and it lingers for 1 minute. Any creature in the cloud when it appears, or that enters it later, must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, the creature can’t be infected by these spores for 24 hours. On a failed save, the creature is infected with a disease called the spores of Zuggtmoy, which lasts until the creature is cured of the disease or dies. While infected in this way, the creature can’t be reinfected, and it must repeat the saving throw at the end of every 24 hours, ending the infection on a success. On a failure, the infected creature’s body is slowly taken over by fungal growth, and after three such failed saves, the creature dies and is reanimated as a spore servant if it’s a type of creature that can be (see the “Myconids” section in the Monster Manual ). Mind Control Spores (Recharge 5–6). The aspect releases spores that burst out in a cloud that fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on her, and it lingers for 1 minute. Humanoids and Beasts in the cloud when it appears, or that enter it later, must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, a creature can’t be infected by these spores for 24 hours. On a failed save, the creature is infected with a disease called the influence of Zuggtmoy for 24 hours. While infected in this way, the creature is charmed by her and can’t be reinfected by these spores. Reactions Protective Thrall. When the aspect is hit by an attack roll, one creature within 10 feet of her that is charmed by her is hit by the attack instead. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Exert Will. One creature charmed by the aspect that she can see must use its reaction, if available, to move up to its speed as she directs or to make one weapon attack against a target that she designates. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect makes one pseudopod attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

