# Aspect of Baphomet

**description**: Baphomet, the Horned King, may bestow his petitioners an Aspect if it is going to be used to hunt prey. The Aspect of Baphomet will appear as a 15-foot tall shaggy minotaur with six iron horns protruding from the top of its head. It sports a weapon that looks similar to Baphomet's Heartcleaver but is just a lesser copy. The Aspect of Baphomet does not share the same cunning as its progenitor, but its savagery and might in combat are much in line with the Prince of Beasts. In combat, the Aspect will immediately charge at its foes. Only against challenging opponents will the Aspect even think of using its spells or its Frightful Presence ability. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Labyrinthine Recall. The aspect can perfectly recall any path it has traveled, and it is immune to the maze spell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes one Bite attack, one Gore attack, and one Heartcleaver attack. It also uses Frightful Presence. Heartcleaver. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) force damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the aspect's choice that is within 120 feet of the aspect and aware of it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the aspect's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Heartcleaver Attack. The aspect makes one Heartcleaver attack. Charge (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks, then makes a Gore attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

