# Aspect of Dispater

**description**: Dispater rarely grants an Aspect and will probably only do so if the petitioner has something precious to offer in return. Forbidden knowledge, forgotten secrets, and powerful magical treasure hold more value than souls to the Lord of Dis. The Aspect of Dispater will resemble a 9-foot tall bald man with pale-reddish skin, a pair of short horns on its forehead, and one leg ending with a goat-like cloven foot. The Aspect always wears rich, finely embroidered clothing over its dark plate mail armor and is never without his iron rod that is shaped like a dragon. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Fear Aura. A creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the aspect must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, unless the aspect is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the aspect's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rust Metal. Any nonmagical weapon made of metal that hits the aspect corrodes. After dealing damage, the weapon takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty to damage rolls. If its penalty drops to -5, the weapon is destroyed. Ammunition made of metal that hits the aspect is destroyed after dealing damage. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Iron Rod attacks. Alternatively, it can make one Iron Rod attack and use Daggers of Dispater or Spellcasting. Iron Rod. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) force damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the aspect can choose one of two effects: 1. Flesh to Iron. The creature begins to turn to iron and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the creature is turned into iron for 1 hour. 2. Corrode. If the target is a metallic object, or is wearing metal armor or carrying a metal shield (Dispater's choice), its takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty to the AC it offers. Armor reduced to an AC of 10 or a shield that drops to a +0 bonus is destroyed. Daggers of Dispater. The aspect conjures a barrage of flying daggers that unerringly strike each creature of the aspect's choice that it can see within a 60-foot cone. Each target must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 7 (3d4) force damage and 7 (3d4) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Dark Discomfiture (Recharge 5–6). The aspect magically forces creatures to instantly relive painful and shameful memories in excruciating detail. Each visible creature of the aspect's choice within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) psychic damage and is incapacitated for 1 minute. An incapacitated creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated. Teleport. The aspect magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): 2/day each: alter self (can become Large when changing its appearance), blade barrier, detect magic, heat metal (3rd level), suggestion Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Iron Rod. The aspect makes an Iron Rod attack. Infernal Magic (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect uses Teleport or Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

