# Aspect of Graz'zt

**description**: Of all demon lords of the Abyss, Graz'zt is the most likely to grant a follower's petition for an Aspect. The Dark Prince of Pleasure, unable to resist feeding his vanity, enjoys the awe his Aspect inspires upon his worshipers. The Aspect of Graz'zt stands just slightly smaller than its handsome progenitor at nearly 9-feet tall. Its muscular body is covered in dark purplish skin, and it has six fingers on each hand as well as six toes on each foot. It wields a greatsword that has the likeness and near power of Wave of Sorrow but nowhere near Graz'zt's skill in combat and magic. In combat the Aspect will rely mostly on its martial prowess and Wave of Sorrow. It will only resort to its spells if faced with a challenging foe. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Wave of Sorrow attacks. He can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting. Wave of Sorrow (Greatsword). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) force damage plus 14 (4d6) acid damage. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: charm person, detect magic 1/day each: darkness, dispel magic, dominate person, telekinesis Teleport. The aspect magically teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The aspect transforms into a form that resembles a Medium Humanoid or back into his true form. Aside from his size, his statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment he is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. Reactions Negate Spell (Recharge 5–6). The aspect tries to interrupt a spell he sees a creature casting within 60 feet of him. If the spell is 3rd level or lower, the spell fails and has no effect. If the spell is 4th level or higher, the aspect makes a Charisma check against a DC of 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, the spell fails and has no effect. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Abyssal Magic. The aspect uses Spellcasting or Teleport. Dance, My Puppet! One creature charmed by the aspect that the aspect can see must use its reaction to move up to its speed as the aspect directs. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect makes one Wave of Sorrow attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

