# Aspect of Moloch

**description**: It doesn't take much for Moloch to grant petitioners an Aspect, as it currently needs coins, gems, and treasure to help build an army. The Aspect of Moloch has a powerful, stout crimson-skinned physique with thick arms and legs that ripple with muscle. Large ridged horns sprout from the side of its head and its mouth is filled with fearsome sharp teeth. The Aspect has an array of abilities to employ against its foes, but mostly relies on its martial-based abilities. It uses its Breath of Despair as often as it can, especially against large groups of foes. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The aspect regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of its next turn. The aspect dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes one Bite attack, one Claw attack, and one Many-Tailed Whip attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) fire damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) force damage. Many-Tailed Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) lightning damage plus 5 (1d10) thunder damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 30 feet in a straight line toward the aspect. Breath of Despair (Recharge 5-6). The aspect exhales in a 30-foot cube. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 27 (5d10) psychic damage, drop whatever it is holding, and become frightened of the aspect for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from the aspect by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn’t take the Dash action. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn’t have line of sight to the aspect, the creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing its appearance), detect magic 1/day each: confusion, fly, major image, stinking cloud, suggestion, wall of fire Teleport. The aspect teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw . The aspect makes a Claw attack. Teleport. The aspect uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

