# Aspect of Tiamat

**description**: It was only recently that Tiamat was almost able to return to the Prime Material Plane but was thwarted at the last moment by an intrepid group of heroes. She will be willing to grant a petitioner an Aspect if it would somehow help her further her goal of escaping her eternal prison in the Nine Hells. The Aspect of Tiamat will appear as a huge multi-headed dragon with each chromatic dragon head represented. The Aspect of Tiamat may not be as powerful as its progenitor, but it is still a terrifying entity to engage. Not many can survive a single dragon's breath, let alone one every turn. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. If the aspect has at least 1 hit point, it regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. Multiple Heads. The aspect can take one reaction per turn, rather than only one reaction per round. It also has advantage on saving throws against being knocked unconscious. If it fails a saving throw against an effect that would stun a creature, one of its unspent legendary actions is spent. Actions Multiattack. The aspect can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes two Claw attacks and one Tail attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the aspect's choice that is within 120 feet of the aspect and aware of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the aspect's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 5 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. The aspect's legendary actions are associated with its five dragon heads (a bite and a breath weapon for each). Once the aspect chooses a legendary action for one of its heads, it can't choose another one associated with that head until the start of its next turn. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) acid damage (black dragon head), lightning damage (blue dragon head), poison damage (green dragon head), fire damage (red dragon head), or cold damage (white dragon head). Black Dragon Head (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect exhales acid in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Green Dragon Head (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect exhales poisonous gas in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Blue Dragon Head (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect exhales lightning in a 90-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Red Dragon Head (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect exhales fire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 31 (9d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. White Dragon Head (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect exhales an icy blast in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

