# Aspect of Bael

**description**: Bael only listens to petitions from his followers who consider themselves soldiers and generals, and only if the Aspect is to be used in times of war as part of a tactical move or stratagem. The Aspect of Bael looks like a 10-foot-tall muscular humanoid with handsome bovine features. It has an impressive mane of bright red hair and a pair of bull horns on its head. Its skin is colored gold and its mouth is ridged with sharp teeth and fangs. When engaging enemies, the Aspect of Bael, unfortunately, does not share its progenitor's natural ability to think a few steps ahead, measure the battlefield, and make tactical decisions. Instead, the Aspect prefers to wade into battle with its morningstar, only falling back to its spells and other abilities if hard-pressed. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Dread. Any creature, other than a devil, that starts its turn within 10 feet of the aspect must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of it until the start of its next turn. A creature succeeds on this saving throw automatically if the aspect wishes it or if it is incapacitated. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The aspect regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold or radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of its next turn. The aspect dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Hellish Morningstar attacks. Hellish Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) force damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Teleport. The aspect magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: alter self (can become Medium), detect magic 3/day each: charm person, invisibility, major image 1/day each: dispel magic, fly, suggestion, wall of fire Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Fiendish Magic. The aspect uses Spellcasting or Teleport. Attack (Cost 2 Actions). The aspect makes one Hellish Morningstar attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

