# Aspect of Bel

**description**: Bel does not have any cults but is still worshipped by some warriors and soldiers. Although it is very unlikely that he will grant a petition to bestow an Aspect, it is still possible depending on the reason, especially if it can somehow help him reclaim the rulership of Avernus back from Zariel. The Aspect of Bel appears as a pit fiend wearing a golden suit of armor and wielding a flaming greatsword. The fiend is a deadly opponent to face, having retained the tactical brilliance of its progenitor. In addition, its fearsome sword can cut down the mightiest of heroes and when facing a great number of foes, it can unleash devastating fire magic to quickly turn the tide of battle in its favor. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Fear Aura. A creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the aspect must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, unless the aspect is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the aspect's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two attacks: one with its Greatsword and one with its Tail. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) fire damage. If the target is a flammable object that is not being held or worn, it catches fire. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: detect magic 3/day each: fireball, mirror image, teleport 1/day each: dispel magic, hold monster, wall of fire Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tactical Edge. Roll a d6 for the aspect. The number rolled on the die is subtracted from the next attack roll made against the aspect or an ally of its choice within the next minute. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect makes one Greatsword or Tail attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The aspect uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

