# Aspect of Asmodeus

**description**: Asmodeus, despite being the most powerful fiend in the known multiverse, ironically does not make it difficult to grant a petitioner an Aspect. However, the petitioner must willingly sign away his soul in eternal servitude to Asmodeus. The Aspect of Asmodeus may not match the cunning and calculating logic of its progenitor, but it still captures the Lord of Nessus's magnetic appeal. The Aspect appears as a 13-foot tall, dark-skinned man with extremely handsome features. Two short curving horns sprout from its forehead and its eyes glow a malevolent red. It wears a rich crimson robe made from the most expensive materials and wields a faux version of the Archfiend's Ruby Rod. The Aspect exudes a charismatic aura that captivates any that look at it to kneel and bow in reverence and adoration. While it may lack its progenitor's brilliant tactical mind, the Aspect is still a mighty being to face. Its spell abilities are already more than enough to defeat most heroes. But with the Ruby Rod in its hand, the Aspect is a very formidable opponent able to force enemies into submission, cast spells effortlessly, and freeze foes with a glare. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Aura of Submission. While the aspect is wielding the Ruby Rod, a creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the aspect must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw, unless the aspect is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened, the creature is stunned. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The aspect regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold or radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of its next turn. The aspect dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Ruby Rod attacks and uses its Chill Gaze. Alternatively, it can make one Ruby Rod attack and use Dominate, Spellcasting, or Teleport. Ruby Rod. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) force damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is stunned until the end of the aspect's next turn. Chill Gaze. The aspect turns its magical gaze toward one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 16 (3d6 + 6) cold damage, can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the creature can use either an action or a bonus action on its turn, but not both. These effects last until the end of the aspect's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage. Teleport. The aspect magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Dominate. One creature the aspect can see within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 day. The charmed target obeys the aspect's verbal or telepathic commands. If the target receives a suicidal command, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. If the target successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune to this aspect's Dominate for the next 24 hours. The aspect can have only one target affected by Dominate at a time. If it uses Dominate on another, the effect on the previous target ends. Spellcasting. The aspect casts any spell of 4th level or below that has a casting time of one action, requiring only verbal components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). It can't cast the same spell more than once until the aspect has taken a long rest. Reactions Negate Spell (Recharge 4–6). The aspect tries to interrupt a spell he sees a creature casting within 60 feet of him. If the spell is 3rd level or lower, the spell fails and has no effect. If the spell is 4th level or higher, the aspect makes an Intelligence check against a DC of 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, the spell fails and has no effect. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Attack. The aspect attacks with its Ruby Rod or uses Chill Gaze. Infernal Magic (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect uses Dominate, Spellcasting, or Teleport.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

