# Aspect of Juiblex

**description**: Of all demon lords, the least likely to ever bestow an Aspect is Juiblex. The Faceless Lord is apathetic, even to its own worshipers. It would take a very specific reason for it to ever allow it, which is the promise to be able to consume and absorb an insurmountable number of living matter, such as unleashing the Aspect in the middle of a human bustling city or an elven tree-home community. The Aspect of Juiblex will resemble a 9-foot tall, horrid-looking amorphous mound of greenish, slimy ooze with numerous tendrils. Its glistening, slimy body is riddled with pulsating blood-shot eyes and gaping, biting maws ridged with sharp teeth. In combat, the Aspect will use its Eject Slime against armored targets and then concentrate its acid lash attacks against the most vulnerable foe, attempting to kill it quickly so it can consume it. It will seldom use its spells, unless to finish off a foe. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Foul. Any creature, other than an Ooze, that starts its turn within 10 feet of the aspect must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the creature's next turn. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The aspect regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. lf it takes fire or radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of its next turn. The aspect dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Spider Climb. The aspect can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Acid Lash attacks. Acid Lash. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) acid damage. Any creature killed by this attack is drawn into the aspect's body, here the corpse is dissolved after 1 minute. Eject Slime (Recharge 5–6). The aspect spews out a corrosive slime, targeting one creature that it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 44 (8d10) acid damage. Unless the target avoids taking all of this damage, any metal armor worn by the target takes a permanent −1 penalty to the AC it offers, and any metal weapon the target is carrying or wearing takes a permanent −1 penalty to damage rolls. The penalty worsens each time a target is subjected to this effect. If the penalty on an object drops to −5, the object is destroyed. The penalty on an object can be removed by the mending spell. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: detect magic 1/day each: contagion, gaseous form Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The aspect makes one Acid Lash attack. Corrupting Touch (Costs 2 Actions). Melee Weapon Attack: + 8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) poison damage, and the target is slimed. Until the slime is scraped off with an action, the target is poisoned, and any creature, other than an Ooze, is poisoned while within 10 feet of the target.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

