# Aspect of Zariel

**description**: Zariel grants petitioners her Aspect if it will help her cause, especially if the Aspect is used to train warriors that may eventually become part of Zariel's army. Zariel's Aspect resembles a 9-foot tall female with angelic features, but its facial expressions twisted in an eternal scowl. It has three horns sprouting from its forehead that curls over its head seemingly like a helmet and legs that resemble a goat's. Wings that once had feathers now burn with an eternal flame, spread from its back. The Aspect of Zariel wields a flaming sword and javelin, which it relies on most during combat, just like its progenitor. Priding itself a true warrior, the Aspect rarely uses its spells and abilities unless faced with a powerful foe. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the aspect's darkvision. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The aspect regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of its next turn. The aspect dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Flail or Longsword attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Horrid Touch, if available. Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) force damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) radiant damage, or 16 (2d10 + 5) radiant damage if used with two hands, plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Horrid Touch (Recharge 5–6). The aspect touches one creature within 10 feet of her. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 33 (6d10) necrotic damage and be poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the target is blinded and deafened. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Teleport. The aspect magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The aspect's casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing her appearance), detect evil and good 1/day each: blade barrier, dispel evil and good, fireball, invisibility (self only), major image, wall of fire Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Teleport. The aspect uses Teleport. Immolating Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect turns its magical gaze toward one creature it can see within 120 feet of it and commands it to burn. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or take 16 (3d10) fire damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

