# Aspect of Mephistopheles

**description**: Of all archdevils, Mephistopheles is the least likely to bestow an Aspect. The Lord of Cania rarely entertains any of its worshipers and hates any distractions they bring. The only time it would consider granting one is if the petitioner is an exceptional wizard or sage that can be of use to him and is willing to sign over their souls. The Aspect of Mephistopheles stands 9 feet, has deep crimson skin, and handsome albeit devilish features. It has blood-red pupils, thick, jet-black hair, bat-like wings, and long horns that curl backward. The Aspect is often dressed in a wizard's robes but without the top, revealing a muscular bare chest. It wields a flaming ranseur. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Hellfire Aura. A creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the aspect, or touches it or hits it with a melee attack while within 10 feet of it and the Hellfire Aura is active takes 4 (1d8) fire damage and 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. Any humanoid killed by Hellfire Aura has its soul funneled into the River Styx, where it’s reborn instantly as a lemure devil. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a wish spell followed by a true resurrection spell. The aspect can activate or dismiss its Hellfire Aura with a bonus action. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes two Ranseur attacks. Ranseur. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) force damage plus 11 (2d10) cold, fire, or lightning damage (aspect's choice). Hellfire Gaze (Recharge 5–6). Unless the aspect is blinded, its eyes emit hellfire in a 120-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage and 14 (4d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Any humanoid killed by Hellfire Gaze has its soul funneled into the River Styx, where it’s reborn instantly as a lemure devil. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a wish spell followed by a true resurrection spell. Teleport. The aspect magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The aspect can cast the following spells, requiring no material components, and using Charisma as its spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks): At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing its appearance), detect magic, mage hand, ray of frost (4d8) 2/day each: charm monster, fireball, Otiluke's resilient sphere, telekinesis 1/day each: chain lightning, cone of cold, dispel magic, wall of fire Reactions Absorb Spell (Recharge 5–6). The aspect tries to interrupt a spell it sees a creature casting within 60 feet of it. If the spell is 3rd level or lower, the spell fails and has no effect, and the aspect regains hit points equal to the twice the spell's level. If the spell is 4th level or higher, the aspect makes a Charisma check against a DC of 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, the spell fails and has no effect. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The aspect makes one Ranseur attack. Infernal Magic (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect uses Spellcasting or Teleport.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

