# Aspect of Geryon

**description**: It doesn't take much for Geryon to grant a petitioner an Aspect, for as long as the Aspect is to be used in hunting and destroying its enemies. The Aspect of Geryon resembles a creature with the torso and arms of a gorilla, the lower body of a giant serpent, and the head of giant humanoid. Great bat-like wings spread from its back and its tail ends with a stinger that drips deadly venom. The Aspect of Geryon lives for battle and relishes entering into melee combat where it enjoys tearing foes with its claws and impaling others with its stinger. It will only use its Horn or spells if hard-pressed or facing a great number of opponents. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The aspect regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of its next turn. The aspect dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes one Claw attack and one Stinger attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) cold damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (DC 17) and it is restrained until the grapple ends. The aspect can grapple one creature at a time. If the target is already grappled by the aspect, the target takes an extra 27 (6d8) cold damage. Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 20 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) force damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 13 (2d12) poison damage and become poisoned until it finishes a short or long rest. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to half the poison damage taken. This reduction lasts until the poisoned condition is removed. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing his appearance), detect magic 1/day: banishment, ice storm, invisibility (self only), locate object, suggestion, wall of ice Teleport. The aspect magically teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Infernal Glare. The aspect targets one creature he can see within 60 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the aspect until the end of its next turn. Teleport. The aspect uses Teleport. Swift Sting (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect makes one Stinger attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

