# Aspect of Fraz-Urb'luu

**description**: Rarely does Fraz-Urb'luu share its essence to create an Aspect of itself, especially if the ones petitioning for one are unaware that they are petitioning the Prince of Deception. If it ever happens, however, an Aspect of Fraz-Urb'luu may not share the same skill level of deceit and illusory powers of its progenitor, but it is more than capable enough to deal with most enemies. The Aspect of Fraz-Urb'luu will appear as a 10-foot-tall muscular, green furred gargoyle with reptilian features. Large fin-like ears stretch from the side of its head and long tendril-like whiskers dangle from each side of its chin. In combat, the Aspect will employ hit and run tactics, swooping in to strike vulnerable targets and flying away before its allies can help. In between those strikes it will use its spells such like Phantasmal Killer to take out those that are most likely to be susceptible to it. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Undetectable. The aspect can't be targeted by divination magic, perceived through magical scrying sensors, or detected by abilities that sense demons or fiends. Actions Multiattack. The aspect makes one Bite attack and Fist attack, and it uses Phantasmal Terror. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) force damage. Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 18 (3d8 + 5) force damage. Phantasmal Terror. The aspect targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, or it takes 16 (3d10) psychic damage and is frightened of the aspect until the end of its next turn. Spellcasting. The aspect's casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: alter self (can become Medium), detect magic 3/day each: dispel magic, phantasmal force 1/day each: mislead, programmed illusion, seeming Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) force damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is also grappled (escape DC 17). The grappled target is also restrained. The aspect can grapple only one creature with his tail at a time. Terror (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect uses Phantasmal Terror.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

