# Aspect of Lolth

**description**: The Demon Queen of Spiders will only answer petitions from a favored drow worshiper, and only if the petition has something to do with taking vengeance against an entity or organization Lolth hates. The Aspect of Lolth will always appear as that of Lolth's drider-form or that of a gigantic spider with Lolth's strikingly beautiful head. While it may not match the natural cunning of its progenitor, the Aspect will still personify her extreme cruelty and hatred against all non-Drow races and will take great pleasure in tormenting and destroying its foes. The Aspects Deities and fiends will sometimes send a portion of their power to the Prime Material Plane in order to provide assistance to their worshipers. These fragments of spiritual energy manifest in an “Aspect,” a being that is similar in form to their originators but are not directly controlled. Instead, they are a separate entity altogether, albeit sharing the same agenda as its progenitor. Aspects can never be summoned, but highly favored priests or mages can petition their gods to grant them an Aspect. Born of Power. Despite being just a portion of the progenitors’ power, the Aspects will take a physical and biological form that is nearly identical to their progenitor and with near matching attributes and traits, but scaled down in power. Unless specified, fiendish Aspects last 666 days before they dissipate, or until recalled by their progenitor. There can be only One. Only one Aspect can exist at a time, no matter how many times the progenitor creates them. In addition, the progenitor cannot exist in the same plane as its Aspect. When the progenitor creates an Aspect, it sends an essence of itself to the destination plane. Only when it reaches that plane does the Aspect take form. Once an Aspect is created, the progenitor must recall it or wait for it to dissipate before it can create a new one. Independent Extension. Aspects are not directly controlled by their progenitor nor can they see through the Aspect’s eyes or learn any knowledge the Aspect discovers. They are independent beings after their manifestation and will act in accordance to their alignment and general goal of their progenitor. They are aware that they are not the 'real' beings, but understand that they are an extension and take comfort that once they dissipate, they will return to their real form. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aspect fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. If the aspect has at least 1 hit point, it regains 10 hit points at the start of her turn. Spider Climb. The aspect can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the aspect knows the exact location of any creature in contact with the same web. Web Walker. The aspect ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Actions Multiattack. The aspect uses Web. It then makes one Bite attack, one Whip attack, and two Foreleg attacks or uses Insidious Bolt three times. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) force damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is reduced to 0 hit points, unless it is immune to poison damage. Otherwise, the target takes 11 (2d10) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute on a failed save. Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) force damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage, and the target has disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws until the end of the aspect's next turn. In addition, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 25 feet toward the aspect. Foreleg. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) force damage, and if the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 14). While grappled, the target is restrained, takes 3 (1d6) necrotic damage at the start of each of the aspect's turns, and the aspect can't use one of its Forelegs on another target. Insidious Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) poison damage and 7 (2d6) psychic damage, and the target is poisoned until the end of the aspect's next turn. While poisoned, the target can't use reactions and has disadvantage on saving throws. Web. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one Huge or smaller creature. Hit: The creature is restrained by webbing. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 18 Strength check, escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 12, 10 hit points, resistance to bludgeoning damage, and immunity to acid, poison, and psychic damage. Spellcasting. The aspect casts one the following spells, requiring no material components ability and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: alter self (can become a Medium female Drow when changing her appearance), detect magic, web 1/day each: confusion, dispel magic, dominate person, fly Legendary Actions The aspect can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aspect regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Insidious Poison. The aspect chooses one creature within 30 feet that it has poisoned. The target must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target uses its reaction to move up to half its speed as the aspect directs and make one weapon attack against a visible creature of the aspect's choice. Web. The aspect uses Web. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The aspect attacks with its Whip or Foreleg.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

