# Assaku Plaguebringer

**description**: The hideous assaku is a powerful demon that personifies disease, rot, sickness, and the plague of the Abyss. It bears resemblance to a monstrous, 10-foot-tall, giant winged rat. The assaku moves with a disturbing gait, upright on its spindly hind legs, using its bat-like wings for balance. Its repugnant fur, covered in lesions and pus-oozing sores, is swarming with parasites. Aura of Affliction. Any creature foolish enough to be within proximity of an assaku risks getting sickened from its foul presence. The assaku brings with it an aura of decay and contagion, causing those nearby to feel weakened and nauseated. The pungent stench of rot and disease, in addition to the assaku's appearance, are enough to make even the hardiest warriors tremble in revulsion. Flesh-rotting Bite. Anyone bitten by an assaku can be stricken by a vile disease that causes its flesh to rot, debilitating the victim and making it more vulnerable. The disease spreads rapidly, with the affected flesh turning black and oozing putrid fluids. Victims are tormented by excruciating pain, while their bodies slowly waste away. Putrid Spittle. It can also spit a noxious bile, a sickening concoction of bacteria, digestive fluids, and foul saliva. The bile burns upon contact, causing severe inflammation and blindness until the spittle is removed. This vile attack further enhances the assaku's ability to incapacitate and torment its enemies. Plaguebringer. The assaku revels in its role as a harvester of suffering and spreader of disease. It is drawn to areas ravaged by sickness and epidemics, using its presence to exacerbate the suffering already present. It takes pleasure in the anguish it inflicts, thriving on the misery it causes. Insidious Saboteur. In demon armies, the assaku serves as a scout and infiltrator. Its ability to move silently and undetected through the most treacherous terrains makes it a valuable asset for gathering intelligence or sabotaging enemy defenses. In prolonged sieges, an assaku is used to spread disease and sickness to weaken enemy ranks, silently sowing chaos and discord. Traits Keen Smell. The assaku has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Magic Resistance. The assaku has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The assaku makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. It can use Putrid Spit in place of its Bite attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and if the target is a creature, it must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw against disease or become poisoned until the disease is cured. While poisoned, the creature has disadvantage on Charisma checks and vulnerability to all damage. Every 24 hours that elapse, the target must repeat the saving throw, reducing its hit point maximum by 10 (3d6) on a failure. The disease is cured on a success. The target dies if the disease reduces its hit point maximum to 0. This reduction to the target's hit point maximum lasts until the disease is cured. Putrid Spit. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) poison damage and 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and the target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become blinded. The creature remains blinded until the spittle is removed. An affected creature or another creature within 5 feet of it can take an action to wipe the spittle off. Putrid Breath (Recharge 6). The assaku exhales vile, nauseating, greenish gas in a 20-foot cube originating from the assaku. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 28 (8d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature spends its action on each of its turns coughing and reeling. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Teleport. The assaku magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Bonus Actions Aura of Affliction. The assaku activates or deactivates this sickening aura. While active, any creature that ends its turn within 30 feet of the assaku takes 4 (1d8) poison damage and 4 (1d8) necrotic damage and has disadvantage on Constitution saving throws until the end of its next turn. Constructs, Undead, and creatures summoned by the assaku are immune to this effect. Summon Rats (1/Day). The assaku summons 8d6 giant rats , 4d6 rat swarms , 2d6 dire rats , or 1d4 wererats . The rats appear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of it. The rats act right after the assaku on the same initiative count and fight until they’re destroyed. They disappear when the assaku is destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

