# Assassin of Baphomet

**description**: Assassin Trained in the use of poison, assassins are remorseless killers who work for nobles, guildmasters, sovereigns, and anyone else who can afford them. Cults of Baphomet⁠ Known as the Horned King, Baphomet divides the creatures of the world into two groups. Those who acknowledge his power are his servants, and he endows them with savagery and a hunter’s cunning. The rest are prey, creatures to be hunted and slaughtered. His aim is to transform the cosmos into his personal hunting ground. B⁠aphomet is a savage entity, but he tempers his ferocity with shrewdness. He loves the hunt and the sense of impending doom that comes over prey that can’t escape his pursuit. His fondness for labyrinths, instilled in the minotaurs he created, reflects this aspect of his personality. B⁠aphomet⁠ studies every detail of the mazes he creates and exults in the dread that overcome those who become lost in them. He tracks them at his leisure, striking only after the maze’s contorted corridors have exhausted the energy and the hope of his victims. Cultists. The cult of B⁠aphomet attracts those who see themselves as superior to everyone else, to the extent that they consider other people little more than animals. Baphomet’s teachings reinforce these beliefs, appealing to the ego and justifying narcissism. Bigots are also drawn to Baphomet’s doctrine of individual superiority. Cultists of B⁠aphomet include nobles who use their vassals as playthings, assassins who practice their murderous art for the sheer love of hunting intelligent creatures, and paranoid humans who combine a hatred⁠ of outsiders with bloodthirstiness. Typically, a cult builds a maze beneath a castle, a guild hall, or some other place it controls. The cultists drug their victims, strip them of their weapons and armor, and place them in the labyrinth before they wake up disoriented. Then the cultists⁠ stalk their prey in the maze. They howl as they chase their quarry, striking fear into their victims’ hearts before descending for the kill. If the hunt claims a particularly powerful creature, B⁠aphomet might bestow boons on the cultists⁠ as a reward. Demonic Boons Ability Score Adjustment: Up to a +4 bonus to Strength, Wisdom, or both (not applied) B⁠aphomet grants the gifts of cunning and physical power. He grants his rank-and-file followers the Unerring Tracker trait, and cult leaders gain the Incite the Hunters trait. All of his devotees also gain the Labyrinthine Recall trait. Traits Assassinate. During its first turn, the assassin⁠ has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn. Any hit the assassin scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit. Evasion. If the assassin⁠ is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the assassin⁠ instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Sneak⁠ Attack⁠ (1/Turn). The assassin⁠ deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack⁠ roll, or when the target is within 5 ft. of an ally of the assassin⁠ that isn't incapacitated and the assassin⁠ doesn't have disadvantage on the attack⁠ roll. Unerring Tracker. As a bonus action⁠, this creature magically creates a psychic link with one creature it can see. For the next hour, as a bonus action⁠ this creature learns the current distance and direction to the target if it is on the same plane of existence. The link ends if this creature is incapacitated or if it uses this ability on a different target. Incite the Hunters (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As an action⁠, this creature allows each ally within 30 feet of it that has the Unerring Tracker trait to make one weapon attack as a reaction against the target of that ally’s Unerring Tracker. Labyrinthine Recall. This creature can perfectly recall any path it has traveled. Actions Multiattack. The assassin makes two shortsword attacks. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Any Race)
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any Non-good Alignment
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

