# Assaku Plague Lord

**description**: The hideous assaku is a powerful demon that personifies disease, rot, sickness, and the plague of the Abyss. It bears resemblance to a monstrous, 10-foot-tall, giant winged rat. The assaku moves with a disturbing gait, upright on its spindly hind legs, using its bat-like wings for balance. Its repugnant fur, covered in lesions and pus-oozing sores, is swarming with parasites. Aura of Affliction. Any creature foolish enough to be within proximity of an assaku risks getting sickened from its foul presence. The assaku brings with it an aura of decay and contagion, causing those nearby to feel weakened and nauseated. The pungent stench of rot and disease, in addition to the assaku's appearance, are enough to make even the hardiest warriors tremble in revulsion. Flesh-rotting Bite. Anyone bitten by an assaku can be stricken by a vile disease that causes its flesh to rot, debilitating the victim and making it more vulnerable. The disease spreads rapidly, with the affected flesh turning black and oozing putrid fluids. Victims are tormented by excruciating pain, while their bodies slowly waste away. Putrid Spittle. It can also spit a noxious bile, a sickening concoction of bacteria, digestive fluids, and foul saliva. The bile burns upon contact, causing severe inflammation and blindness until the spittle is removed. This vile attack further enhances the assaku's ability to incapacitate and torment its enemies. Plaguebringer. The assaku revels in its role as a harvester of suffering and spreader of disease. It is drawn to areas ravaged by sickness and epidemics, using its presence to exacerbate the suffering already present. It takes pleasure in the anguish it inflicts, thriving on the misery it causes. Insidious Saboteur. In demon armies, the assaku serves as a scout and infiltrator. Its ability to move silently and undetected through the most treacherous terrains makes it a valuable asset for gathering intelligence or sabotaging enemy defenses. In prolonged sieges, an assaku is used to spread disease and sickness to weaken enemy ranks, silently sowing chaos and discord. An Assaku Plague Lord's Lair Graveyards and battlefields filled with rotting corpses, filthy sewers, and deplorable dungeons are favored by the assaku plague lord as lairs. Dretches and all manner of rats and wererats can be found within the lairs and serve the assaku plague lord as guardians. An assaku plague lord encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 17 (18,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the assaku can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the assaku can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The assaku targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or it suffers the effect of the contagion spell without making a saving throw. The disease is determined randomly. The assaku casts stinking cloud , requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17), at 4 different points within its lair. The assaku doesn't need to see the points and doesn't need to maintain concentration on the spell. The effect lasts for 1 minute, until the assaku uses this lair action again, or until the assaku dies or is incapacitated. The assaku targets up to 3 dretch, rat, or wererat allies it can see within 60 feet of it. The target can use its reaction to move up to its speed or make one melee weapon attack. Traits Keen Smell. The assaku has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the assaku fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The assaku has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The assaku makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. It can use Putrid Spit in place of its Bite attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) necrotic damage and if the target is a creature, it must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw against disease or become poisoned until the disease is cured. While poisoned, the creature has disadvantage on Charisma checks and vulnerability to all damage. Every 24 hours that elapse, the target must repeat the saving throw, reducing its hit point maximum by 14 (4d6) on a failure. The disease is cured on a success. The target dies if the disease reduces its hit point maximum to 0. This reduction to the target's hit point maximum lasts until the disease is cured. Putrid Spit. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) poison damage and 11 (2d10) necrotic damage and the target must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become blinded. The creature remains blinded until the spittle is removed. An affected creature or another creature within 5 feet of it can take an action to wipe the spittle off. Putrid Breath (Recharge 5–6). The assaku exhales vile, nauseating, greenish gas in a 40-foot cube originating from the assaku. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature spends its action on each of its turns coughing and reeling. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Teleport. The assaku magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Bonus Actions Aura of Affliction. The assaku activates or deactivates this sickening aura. While active, any creature that ends its turn within 30 feet of the assaku takes 5 (1d10) poison damage and 5 (1d10) necrotic damage and has disadvantage on Constitution saving throws until the end of its next turn. Constructs, Undead, and creatures summoned by the assaku are immune to this effect. Summon Rats (1/Day). The assaku summons 8d6 rat swarms , 4d6 dire rats , or 2d4 wererats . The rats appear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of it. The rats act right after the assaku on the same initiative count and fight until they’re destroyed. They disappear when the assaku is destroyed. Legendary Actions The assaku can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The assaku regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The assaku moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Claw. The assaku makes one Claw attack. Spittle (Costs 2 Actions). The assaku uses Putrid Spittle. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The assaku uses Teleport.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

