# Asteroid Worm

**description**: Asteroid worms are titanic predators of the spaceways, known to haunt airless moons and rocky belts of drifting planetoids. They can hibernate for long periods but even in their torpor they remain sensitive to the presence of living creatures and of the potent energies of interplanetary spacecraft. Their enormous rocky mass is virtually indistinguishable from the ores and minerals of their lairs, and creatures and even small spacecraft may fly into their monstrous gullets thinking to find shelter or a hiding place amid the crags and craters of a desolate planetary crust. Asteroid worms require no air to breathe, but after consuming prey the worms and the parasitic mites living in their gullets may produce pockets of cloying fumes or damp vapor that pool within their bodies, forming a crude and generally noxious atmosphere of sorts for those plumbing the depths of an asteroid worm’s interior. Here There Be Monsters. The asteroid worm is a creature that dwells within, and feeds on, rock formations in the void of space. These creatures burrow through larger asteroids, creating crisscrossing patterns of tunnels until the asteroid’s mineral deposits are spent. Although normally content to feed on the mineral content of asteroids, these worms have been known to surface from their burrows to swallow space-faring creatures, objects, and even small vessels whole. While the chances that a worm is lying in wait on a lone, wayward asteroid are slim, failure to heed the tell-tale signs of manifold pockets on the planetoid’s surface has led to many unnecessary deaths. Adaptive Biology. The biology of asteroid worms is poorly understood. While the mineral compositions of asteroids vary wildly, the worms demonstrate little difficulty in digesting whatever the planetoid has to offer. A worm can adapt to a new asteroid mineral-environment within hours of transference from its previous asteroid. While mainstream theories state that this is indicative of either a capacity for rapid genetic or gastrointestinal metamorphosis, a fringe theory postulates that there may be an as-yet-unseen connection between the worm and its environment. However, because there are few willing to brave the perils of asteroid belts to capture one of these creatures alive, these theories remain just that. Asteroid worms are omnivorous, subsisting on minerals and energies from decimated starships as well as the organic material of creatures traveling within them. They can continue growing almost indefinitely, and specimens hundreds of feet long and weighing hundreds of tons have been discovered. It is believed that they reproduce hermaphroditically, typically after a particularly abundant spree of consumption, expelling a single rock-like egg into the void to grow and mature. Newly hatched asteroid worms are similar in size, appearance, and abilities to purple worms, though lacking a poisonous sting and not needing to breathe. Once making planetfall, the larval asteroid worm burrows throughout its new home planetoid, honeycombing the planet with caves and cysts as it seeks vital minerals to fuel its growth and build its rocky carapace. Virtually Indestructible. The asteroid worm has the ability to reconstitute itself from slivers of its remains. As little as 1/100th of the worm is necessary to regenerate its entire body. This ability has proven essential in the volatile environment of an asteroid field, where violent collisions between asteroids are commonplace. While it is theoretically possible for a worm to survive planetary impact, it is equally likely that reentry would incinerate the worm and leave nothing to regenerate. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyIndent, li.BodyCopyIndent, div.BodyCopyIndent {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent Char"; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.BodyCopyIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

