# Astirax

**description**: Although technically creatures from beyond Aryth, astiraxes are very different from most fiends and celestials. They are created beings, born of the very weave of magic and roiling energies pulled from other planes of existence when Izrador fell. The dark god shaped these energies into spirits that he uses to help implement his evil designs. Born of magic, astiraxes are enemies of spellcasters anywhere. They can scent the power that resides within each spellcaster and can also drain their magical energy with a single ethereal blow. But even worse, astiraxes can possess unintelligent animals, making them the perfect spies for the Shadow. Astiraxes are naturally invisible and bodiless spirits. Should one become visible via divination spells, it appears as an apparition of rotting animal flesh. It takes on the appearance of all the animals it has ever possessed, causing an older astirax to look like a cobbled- together, phantom animal golem, made of the rotting flesh of dead animals. Astiraxes can be slain, though at the same time more can be created by Izrador’s will. It is said that the Shadow must put some small measure of his accumulated power into each one, however. Thus, destroying an astirax is a small but noticeable blow to his designs. Celestials and Fiends Creatures from the planes beyond are a special case on Aryth, having been trapped there for thousands of years with no way to get home or call others from their planes of origin. Because the elthedar had built great civilizations and were master practitioners of the arts of magic, there was a significant outsider presence on Aryth before the Sundering. That event caused some celestials and fiends to go mad instantly, affecting them in unexplainable and never-before-seen ways. Some consider these the lucky ones. Others were merely frustrated by their inability to return home, and they endeavored to find a way to break the Veil that enveloped the world. Through the millennia, these celestials and fiends have made pacts with one another and just about every other powerful creature on the planet in order to find a way home. They have served dragons, and elves, and the Shadow, and siphoned magic from nexuses all over the world. All of their attempts have failed. After thousands of years, many celestials and fiends have faded into incorporeal shades of their former selves. A few have managed to maintain their physical forms through some means or another. Celestials and Fiends of Eredane The demon-infested depths of the Aruun are what one thinks of when considering fiends—and for good reason. Its humid confines house the majority of evil outsiders in the world, and not many angels to combat them. The demon ruins of Ibon-sul have acted as a prison to demons for thousands of years, so long that not even the eldest Danisil sage has memory of what created such a place. There are fears that since Izrador’s victory, the invisible bonds that trap beings there are being weakened, and that more and more demons are escaping every year. Elsewhere, angels, demons, and devils alike have tried to blend in as best they can. Many succumb to the pull of oblivion and lose themselves among the other spirits, joining the Eternal, but others try to find a way home from the physical world or even simply resign themselves to life among the mortals. Indeed, good and evil outsiders often find common cause, and in many cases, old hatreds have fallen by the wayside in light of their new circumstances. For a chance to return home, there is barely an angel on Aryth who would not work with a demon or devil, but their natures remain unchanged, and such alliances often do not last long, too strained by old prejudices and differences in philosophy that often have lethal consequences. Using Celestials and Fiends in Midnight All types of outsiders are rare in Eredane, but most common creature profiles for celestials and fiends can still be used in the setting. The only differences is that all of these creatures lose any abilities they had to travel to other planes, or summon other celestials or fiends. They are still able to cast any innate spells they have in their profile, provided those spells are not on the banned spell list on page 103 . The demons of Ibon-Sul, specifically, can be represented by most traditional devil or demon profiles. Spirits Midnight is a world full of spirits. These can be the ghosts of the dead, the faded essence of a celestial or a fiend, or something stranger. In the setting, these spirits fall into one of three general categories: the Eternal, the Trapped, and the Lost. The Eternal are the active essences of the world, unique beings that represent some aspect of creation and have a purpose that they are forever striving to accomplish. They seldom meddle in the affairs of mortals, but are also so powerful that they fear little from mortals in return. The Trapped are creatures from other planes (celestials, fiends, etc) whose bodies have faded into nothingness. In their default form they cannot interact with the physical world, and most have difficulty discerning things in the physical world that are not specifically tied to their natures or their interest. They can vaguely sense creatures, objects, and the passage of time, but not in the manner mortals sense things. Some rituals and magic can allow creatures from the physical world to contact and interact with spirits, but the alien minds of spirits are inscrutable things, and getting them to communicate what they’ve seen can be and adventure in itself. The Lost are the spirits of those who once lived. Like the Fell, they are traumatized and scarred by their own deaths, though for these ghosts, they are often compelled to perform some cryptic task based on their former life. Unfortunately, eternity in a bodiless, incorporeal state can drive even a good soul to become a wrathful and vicious shadow of its former self. All spirits reside on the edges of the material realm of Aryth, not truly within the Ethereal Plane. However, most have the ability to become invisible for short or long periods of time. Traits Incorporeal Movement. The astirax can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Invisible. The astirax is invisible. If it makes an attack, it becomes visible for one minute. Magic Hunter. The astirax has advantage on attack rolls targeting any creatures that can cast spells, except for rangers and paladins. Scent Magic. The astirax always knows the location of any magic items or any creatures that can cast spells, except for rangers and paladins, within 600 feet. Actions Ethereal Blow. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) force damage. If the target can cast spells and has spell slots, it must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or lose one of its lowest available spell slots. Possession (Recharge 6). One animal with an Intelligence score of 5 or less that the astirax can see within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the astirax; the astirax then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The astirax now controls the body. The astirax can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except for ones that specifically affect astiraxes, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target’s statistics, but doesn’t gain access to the target’s knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the astirax ends it as a bonus action, or the astirax is forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the astirax reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to this astirax’s possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

