# Astralsupial

**description**: An oversized opossum with thick, patchy fur hangs upside down from its tail in a nearby tree. Its fleshy hands have five digits, including an apposable thumb. In place of sharp teeth, a mouthful of flat molars results in an unnervingly charming grin. This unique marsupial collects odds and ends in an extradimensional pouch on its body and defends itself by throwing these objects at attackers. Unknown Origins. No one knows exactly how the astralsupial came to be, but a magical anomaly likely created the first one. They are native to the Astral Plane. Occasionally, pulling from the extradimensional pouch has adverse effects and the astralsupial rips itself into another plane of existence. Tree Hugger. When outside the Astral Realm, the astralsupial prefers the safety of forest canopies and swamp trees. They use their strong tails to hang from branches or climb high into the trees to avoid danger. They remain peaceful, surviving mostly on plant life. When confronted, they would rather feign death than fight to the death. Apposable Thumbs. The astralsupial has advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks made to climb. Keen Hearing and Smell. The astralsupial has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Actions Multiattack. The astralsupial makes two Claws attacks and uses Astral Pouch. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Astral Pouch. The astralsupial reaches into its extradimensional pouch and chooses a point it can see within 30 feet of it. Each creature within 10 feet of that point must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. Roll a d6 to determine which of the following effects happens. The astralsupial is immune to its own Astral Pouch effects. Ball Bearings. Ball bearings roll out of the pouch, scattering at the end of the astralsupial's next turn. On a failed save, a creature is knocked prone. Cooking Utensils. Cast-iron cooking pans fly out of the pouch. On a failed save, a creature takes 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage. Tangled Threads. A mass of thread and string bursts out of the pouch. On a failed save, a creature is restrained until a creature takes an action to break the thread by succeeding on a DC 10 Strength check. Astral Mirror. A mirror imbued with a trace of the Astral Plane's power flashes brilliantly. On a failed save, a creature takes 1d4 psychic damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. Smelly Trash. Handfuls of putrid trash spill from the pouch. On a failed save, a creature is poisoned for 1 minute. The creature can make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Magic Beans. Magical beans bounce out of the pouch. A creature takes 10 (4d4) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Bonus Actions Astral Traveler (2/Day). The astralsupial briefly surrounds itself in a shower of glittering dust and teleports to an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet. Reactions Playing Dead. When the astralsupial is reduced to 10 hp or less, it feigns death in hopes of deceiving its attackers. A creature that sees the astralsupial in this state can determine it is a ruse with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check. This ruse lasts until the astralsupial ends it (no action required), up to 8 hours. The first attack it makes within 1 round of ending the ruse has advantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

