# Ataeshia

**description**: Traits Offer to Remembrance ( 3 /Day). When Atæshia fails a saving throw, a willing creature within 60 feet of her who can see her can give their life to protect her. This creature dies instantly, and Atæshia succeeds on the saving throw. Reborn From War. When Atæshia is reduced to 0 hit points, she disintegrates into ash on a solemn wind. For the next 100 years, if a Celestial, a Elemental, or a Humanoid whose challenge rating or level is 5 or higher dies within 60 feet of where Atæshia died, Atæshia returns to life where she died with 25 hit points. Actions Multiattack. Atæshia makes three Pale Flame attacks. She can replace one attack with a use of Moment of Loss, if available. Pale Flame. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) radiant damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage. If this attack reduces a creature to 0 hit points, they die and all their remains burn to nothing. Moment of Loss (Recharge 6 ). Atæshia transforms one creature she can see within 60 feet of her into the form of a living ash cloud. While transformed to ash, the target is immune to all damage, can’t provide cover to other creatures, and can’t take reactions. At the start of the target’s next turn, they reform and must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target is reduced to 1 hit point. On a successful save, the target takes 44 (8d10) necrotic damage. This damage can’t reduce the target’s hit points below 1. From Death, Life ( 1 /Day). Atæshia uses her Kindled Sacrifice villain action, even if it is unavailable, to sacrifice herself. Bonus Actions Flickering Flame. Atæshia forms into a cloud of ash, teleports to an unoccupied space she can see within 60 feet of her, and reforms into her true form. Each creature within 5 feet of the space she left must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 5 (1d10) fire damage. Reactions Convocation of Ash. When another Elemental Atæshia can see within 60 feet of her is hit with an attack, the damage from the attack is halved and the target can move up to half their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Villain Actions Atæshia has three villain actions. She can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. She can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Wave of Sorrow. Atæshia unleashes a pulse of overwhelming sadness. Each enemy Atæshia can see within 120 feet of her must make a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is dazed for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). On a successful save, a creature can’t take reactions until the end of their next turn. Action 2 : Kindled Sacrifice. Atæshia chooses a willing creature within 60 feet of her to die so their allies may live. The target dies, and up to two other dead creatures within 60 feet of the target return to life. These revived creatures regain the same number of hit points the sacrificed creature had, up to the revived creature’s hit point maximum. Action 3 : Life’s Finale. Atæshia releases a torrent of primordial anguish to unmake the marrow of creation around her. Each enemy within 60 feet of her must make a DC 21 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, they take 55 (10d10) necrotic damage and can’t regain hit points until the end of Atæshia’s next turn. On a successful save, they take half as much damage, but suffer no other effect. Succeed or fail, if this damage reduces a creature to 0 hit points, they immediately fail one death saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Elemental (Air, Earth, Fire)
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

