# Athach

**description**: An athach is a massive 18-foot tall giant that has a third arm growing from its malformed, portly body and a gnarled, tusked maw that drips with debilitating venom. The creature never bathes, and the stench its body emits is nearly overpowering. Obsessive Hoarder. An athach is a greedy collector of gems, jewelry, and precious metals. It has an obsessive fascination with such objects, polishing and talking to them for hours in its lair. When it isn't admiring its loot, it sets out to hunt for food or look for more treasure, which directly puts it into conflict with dwarves, mining settlements, and merchant caravans. Paranoid Sociopath. Due to its greedy and obsessive nature, the athach is a solitary creature. It will never live with another intelligent being it doesn't intend to eat, and very rarely will it be with another of its kind, except probably its mate. But due to their greed, the relationship often does not last long as they will soon try to murder each other for fear that the other will steal the other's treasures. An athach prefers to keep monstrous pets, such as hydras, owlbears, and otyughs, to guard its lair. Grappling Brute. In combat, it moves with a lumbering gait, crushing enemies with its enormous tree-trunk club. It will try to grab targets smaller than itself and will then either bite their heads off, slam them to the ground, or fling them like a missile weapon against other foes. Actions Multiattack. The athach makes two Greatclub attacks and one Slam attack. It can use Slam Foe or Fling in place of its Slam attack. If the athach is grappling a creature, the attach can also use its Bite. Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 18) and restrained until the grapple ends, and the athach can't use Slam on another target. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one grappled creature. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) piercing damage, and if the target is a creature, it must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effects on itself on a success. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Slam Foe. The athach slams a creature grappled by it into another creature it can see within 5 feet of it or a solid surface. Each creature must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or take 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of the athach's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Fling. One creature grappled by the athach is thrown up to 40 feet in a random direction and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes a solid surface, the target takes 8 + 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

