# Athenian Eldritch Champion

**description**: The eldritch champions are extraordinary warriors, with an incredible mastery of martial combat and its resulting combination with arcane prowess. They are elite troops that are spread out over entire platoons, typically as the companion of a general, second-in-command of an elite unit led by a strategist or they may even be a general themselves. Most often they are accompanied by Sacred Dogs of Athena, which turns any congregation where the champion is present into a death trap for most foes. Furthermore, the champions are always outfitted with magic items when out on the field. This includes enchanted armor and weapons, elemental gems, spell scrolls and an assortment of potions, ranging from healing, to resistance, speed and even invisibility. Although they are not specialists in magic, their potential is considerably higher than that of arcane warriors. Their choice of spells is also meant to focus on boosting their skills, while also providing a measure of defense against other spellcasters on the field. Elite amongst the Wise. The eldritch champion is a rare sight, for it is the most powerful type of warrior amongst the army. They are even rumored to be blessed by Athena herself, although there is no claim to it from the champions themselves. Athenian Army Athens is the biggest magocracy in the entirety of the Greek world, represented by a plethora of powerful spellcasters. It is rare for an experienced warrior in the city to not know at least one spell and there are orders of mages specialized in battle magic. However, the city honors the patron goddess of the city, Athena, the Goddess of Wisdom. She is specially appreciated by warriors and scholars, which makes the amount of faithful within the city quite extensive. As such, the ranks of the army are not just powerful, but also versatile. Both martial prowess and varying degrees of arcane and divine expertise are the building blocks for one of the three superpowers in the Greek world. Naval Supremacy. Aside from their hold on magic and its institutionalized learning, the Athenian state holds the most powerful navy in the continent, with a fleet of 500 ships, which requires 100.000 sailors to operate. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the champion fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Commander's Aura. Any of the champion's allies within 30 feet of them add the champion's Intelligence modifier to their weapon damage rolls. Chosen of the Aegis. While the champion is using a shield they gain an additional +1 bonus to their AC. Eldritch Strike. When the champion hits a creature with a weapon attack, that creature has disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes against a spell before the end of the champion's next turn. Magic Resistance. The champion has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The champion's weapon attacks are magical. Owl's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the champion's darkvision. Regeneration. The champion regains 10 hp at the start of their turn if they have no more than half of their total hit points. Spellcasting. The champion's Spellcasting Ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following spells: At Will: fire bolt, ray of frost, shocking grasp 3/day each: absorb elements, invisibility, shield 2/day each: blur, counterspell, magic missile (as a 3rd level spell), silvery barbs 1/day each: fire shield, fireball, haste, holy weapon, wall of force Actions Multiattack. The champion makes four weapon attacks. They can replace up to two weapon attacks with the casting of a cantrip. Booming Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) thunder damage. If the target moves willingly before the start of the champion's next turn, it takes an additional 18 (4d8) thunder damage. Arcane Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) force damage. Ray of Frost (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d8) cold damage. On a hit, the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the battle-mage's next turn. Fire Bolt (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 120ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d10) fire damage. Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is large sized or smaller, it must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone or pushed back 10 ft. (champion's choice) Shocking Grasp (Cantrip). Melee Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) lightning damage. The champion has advantage on the attack roll if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit, the target can't take reactions until the start of its next turn. Bonus Actions Swift Casting (3/day). The champion can cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action. Eldritch Step (Recharge 4-6). The champion teleports, along with any equipment they are wearing or carrying, to an unoccupied space they can see within 60 feet of themselves. Legendary Actions Athenian Eldritch Champion can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Athenian Eldritch Champion regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The champion can move up to their speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. The champion can make a booming blade attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 actions). The champion can cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action or bonus action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

