# Athenian Battle-Mage

**description**: Battle-Mages are accomplished spellcasters who act as heavy hitters in combat units alongside soldiers and arcane warriors. Their education is primarily focused on evocation magic, but they also can provide a measure of utility and defensive magic for themselves and their fellow athenians. They are primarily deployed on smaller teams, where heavy artillery such as cannons and ballistas are not practical to carry, so they can deal out damage on a wider scale. This combination has proven brutally efficient on infiltration teams, hit-and-run operations and sabotage attempts during wars. Athenian Army Athens is the biggest magocracy in the entirety of the Greek world, represented by a plethora of powerful spellcasters. It is rare for an experienced warrior in the city to not know at least one spell and there are orders of mages specialized in battle magic. However, the city honors the patron goddess of the city, Athena, the Goddess of Wisdom. She is specially appreciated by warriors and scholars, which makes the amount of faithful within the city quite extensive. As such, the ranks of the army are not just powerful, but also versatile. Both martial prowess and varying degrees of arcane and divine expertise are the building blocks for one of the three superpowers in the Greek world. Naval Supremacy. Aside from their hold on magic and its institutionalized learning, the Athenian state holds the most powerful navy in the continent, with a fleet of 500 ships, which requires 100.000 sailors to operate. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Careful Casting. When a battle mage casts a spell that causes damage or that forces a creature to make a saving throw, it can choose itself and any number of allies to be immune to the damage caused by the spell and to automatically succeed on the required saving throw. Spellcasting. The battle-mage's Spellcasting Ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following spells: At Will: fire bolt, mage armor, mage hand, minor illusion, ray of frost, shocking grasp 3/day each: magic missile (as a 2nd-level spell), shatter, shield, thunderwave 2/day each: counterspell, dispel magic, enhance ability, fireball, invisibility, misty step 1/day each: banishment, fly, polymorph Actions Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. Fire Bolt (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 120ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) fire damage. Mind Sliver (Cantrip). The target must succeed on an DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or take 7 (2d6) psychic damage and subtract 2 (1d4) from the next saving throw it makes before the end of the battlemage's next turn. Ray of Frost (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) cold damage. On a hit, the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the battle-mage's next turn. Shocking Grasp (Cantrip). Melee Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) lightning damage. The battle-mage has advantage on the attack roll if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit, the target can't take reactions until the start of its next turn. Bonus Actions Arcane Mark. The battle-mage can mark one creature within 60 feet. The marked creature has disadvantage on any spells cast by the battle mage until the beginning of the battle mage's next turn. Reactions War Mage Reflex. When the battle-mage takes damage from a creature's attacks, spells or abilities, it can cast a cantrip against the offending creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

