# Athen-Ra Volsofui'i

**description**: “Everyone is trying to define power; I prefer seizing it. Let them name it, I will live it.” A mysterious woman of unknown origin, Athen-Ra is the de facto leader of the Gemology Union . She is in direct contact with its board of directors and some of the key members that operate unobtrusively. Most people don’t know who she is, or that she has such a powerful position in the union. Athen-Ra’s Story Her parents came to Tolia from a distant unknown realm. She was still a baby when they arrived at the Garrote Mountains. She vaguely remembers her parents being killed, their flesh being eaten, and their bones being made into a totem for the Blood God. The same barbarian tribe that murdered her parents adopted her. The only thing left of her parents was the swaddling with her name stitched on it; Athen-Ra Volsofui’i. The tribe had caretakers that attended to all of the tribe’s children, of which she became one. She was kept warm, well-fed and content until she was 6. Then, she started to help the grown-ups with their endeavors. It was like being an apprentice to masters whose metier was adulthood. She had experienced and witnessed many things that most wouldn’t. She was among the few who survived to become an adult, and she earned face tattoos when she did. At some point, due to unforeseen weather conditions, she got separated from the tribe and chose not to return. Instead, she sought a safe place to live out her days, and found Cyherested. It took her over 40 years to seize the power she has today. The strength, the resilience, and the power of will she mustered were all the tools gifted by her tribe, and by using them, adapting to a new environment, and accepting knowledge without resistance, she built her empire brick by brick. Athen-Ra’s Goals Athen-Ra feels complete and satisfied while she is in charge. Authority figures annoy her and she tries to be more powerful than all of them. Roleplaying Athen-Ra Athen-Ra changes her appearance every day through make-up; yet, her condescending eyes, emotionless expression, and tattooed face give her away regardless of how much make-up she wears. She can muster any kind of emotion, travel to the most despicable places, bargain with the lowest of the low, and take inhumane actions even though she is mostly seen in elite places with important figures, attending social events, appearing in political campaigns, and dating ministers. She doesn’t hesitate to obtain power, and she doesn’t shy away from using it. Athen-Ra in Combat Athen-Ra and her surroundings are constantly watched over by a security team that mostly consists of retired law enforcement agents, and ex- CBI Sorcerers . These agents are almost always on high alert and ready to intercept any kind of hostile action. She tries to run from combat while her security team fights off the attackers and secures the way. However, she would prefer to die instead of being controlled or imprisoned; so, if she had to, she would fight with everything she’s got. Even if she is killed, her security team will try to take her body with them. With or without the body, she will be resurrected if her soul is free and willing.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

