# Aurae

**description**: Nymphs are powerful fey who embody the splendor of the natural world. Architects of wild beauty, nymphs are bound to, and protect, the forests, rivers, springs, meadows, mountains, and seas they shape and call home. Nymphs feel a greater kinship to elves than do most other fey, and the two groups resemble each other in general appearance, though nymphs have more obviously supernatural features. Enigmatic Values . All nymphs are incredibly beautiful and demand to be surrounded by aesthetically elegant creatures and items that rival their own appearance. They are chaotic beings that believe in the importance of beauty above all else. Rather than viewing the world in terms of good and evil, most nymphs see only beauty and ugliness. To them, actions that create beauty are laudable; beautiful creatures and objects must be protected. That which destroys or damages beauty, or promotes ugliness, must be eradicated. Secluded Surroundings . Nymphs make homes in the most beautiful locations of the natural world. They augment these places, nurturing the plants, shaping the earth, and purifying the water. Those seeking a nymph should look to the most breathtaking natural landmarks in their vicinity as a sign of her presence. However, intruders are rarely welcome, as most nymphs prefer to live in solitude. Many nymph homes lie on the borders between the fey and the mortal realm. Time passes differently in these locations, and mortals who unwittingly wander into a nymph’s domain for an afternoon may find themselves displaced by centuries in time. Ephemeral Lovers . Many prominent heroes of legend are thought to be the offspring of nymphs. Affairs between nymphs and mortals tend to be fleeting and frequently end in tragedy. Powerful mortals who are seduced into joining nymphs in the fey realm may disappear from the mortal realm for centuries, throwing kingdoms into chaos in the meantime. Nymphs taken into the mortal world as wives and husbands soon pine for the natural splendor of their wild homes, and they usually abandon their mortal families. Types of Nymphs Nymphs are divided into six subraces: dryads of the forests, naiads of lakes and rivers, nereids of the oceans, oreads of the mountains, oceanids of the islands, and aurae of the night sky. Nymphs may be male, female, both, or neither. However, most nymphs possess certain delicate feminine qualities, regardless of their gender, and they are collectively described with feminine pronouns. Nymph Lairs The lair of a nymph is a beautiful, natural place that reflects her type. For example, dryads make their lairs in the branches and roots of a great tree to which she is bound. Naiads often dwell within underwater caves that can only be reached by swimming beneath a river or lake. Oreads may choose picturesque ruins located high in the mountain that she calls home. When a nymph’s lair contains a connection to the fey, or lies within the fey, she gains access to lair actions. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the nymph can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects: The nymph glimpses the future, so that it has advantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until initiative count 20 on the next round. The nymph merges with her surroundings and reappears anywhere in her lair. This ability functions exactly like dimension door except that it requires no components and the range is limited to within the nymph’s lair. Regional Effects The region containing a nymph’s lair is warped by the ephemeral nature of the feywild. Time passes differently in the lair of the nymph. Every day spent there counts as a month in the mortal world. The nymph can decrease this rate of time passage to a week or increase it to a year. Monstrosities, aberrations, fiends, and humanoids with Charisma scores of 8 or less feel extremely uncomfortable in a nymph’s lair. They have disadvantage on all saving throws and ability checks. Aurae Aurea are nymphs associated with the sea and the night sky, currents, breezes, and the constellations. Each aurae claims an island for her home, and she guards it with fearsome devotion. The most territorial of the nymphs, aurae have taken it upon themselves to stem the tide of civilization and do not tolerate mortals on their islands. They are not malicious or cruel, and they always give trespassers fair warning to leave. But if their words go unheeded, they will not hesitate to smite interlopers with all their power. Aurae sometimes become muses for mortals. These nymphs have an innate fascination with words and language, and thrill in the abilities of poets, storytellers, and lyricists. Some of history’s greatest songs, poems, and tales are thought to have been inspired by aurae. Like other nymphs, aurae can charm others to fight for them, but they also wield great strength, both physical and magical. In battle, aurae weave fey magic into beautiful songs to lull their opponents to sleep and to inflict psychic harm through vivid nightmares.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (nymph)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 4963
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

