# Aurnozci

**description**: Aurnozci, the Caged Worm The demon lord Aurnozci is a wormlike horror of fiery flesh and toxic seepage. In its present form, Aurnozci can’t leave Xulregg, the Abyssal layer that’s both its fiefdom and its prison. It lairs within a grotesque hive dangling from a mountain-size tree of tar and flame called Gorewood. Aurnozci relies on demonic proxies and mortal worshipers to enact its will beyond the Abyss. The exact nature of the curse that binds Aurnozci to Xulregg is its cult’s most closely guarded secret, fully known only to the faith’s enigmatic leader, a masked archmage called the Eye of Aurnozci. Aurnozci’s followers believe the demon lord’s imprisonment is coming to an end, and soon the Caged Worm will shed its current form and transform into an even more powerful shape. Once it attains this new form, Aurnozci can escape Xulregg and wreak havoc across the multiverse. To accelerate this terrible transformation, cultists hunt down mortal souls for violent ritual sacrifice to their god. Using Aurnozci in a Game Aurnozci’s cult targets mortals to use as sacrifices for the demon lord. The cult’s hordes of minions travel throughout the Material Plane to bedevil and capture less powerful creatures and enemies of the cult. Lower-level characters could earn the cult’s ire by stepping on the wrong toes during their early adventures, such as by attacking a sect of the cult. The cult’s leader, the Eye of Aurnozci, focuses on powerful mortals or enemies of the cult. High-level characters with a record of heroic deeds can easily fall into this category. The Eye of Aurnozci might also take interest in a mortal who draws the Flames card from a Deck of Many Things —a tantalizing opportunity for the cult to make good on the card’s dire prophecy. Once a character is targeted by the cult of Aurnozci, fiendish assassins assail the party. If the Caged Worm and its followers are the primary antagonists in your campaign, these attacks could happen as frequently as every session; otherwise, space them out every few sessions. At first, the foes might be lesser demons like manes or dretches , or Humanoid cultists of Aurnozci. As the characters level up, the enemies gradually increase in strength. Between fights, the characters can slowly unravel details of the cult pursuing them. By the time the characters learn they must travel to the Abyss to stop the cult’s aggression, they might be regularly encountering throngs of glabrezus , nalfeshnees , or other powerful demons. The party’s journey to Xulregg and infiltration of Gorewood are adventures in themselves. A map of Gorewood and an overview of the locations within this Abyssal realm appear later in this chapter. Depending on your players’ actions, the characters might resolve their final confrontation with Aurnozci’s cult by diplomacy or by force. The safest way to escape the cult is to confront the Eye of Aurnozci and persuade this shadowy villain to call off the attacks. Alternatively, a strong enough party might take the fight to Aurnozci in its hive and attempt to slay the demon lord once and for all. Roleplaying Aurnozci Aurnozci is a being of mindless destruction, and the Caged Worm has few dealings with mortals that don’t end in consumption. Periodically, the Eye of Aurnozci communes with their horrifying master or leads a ceremony of propitiation in the Firehive. In combat, Aurnozci screeches horribly and attacks any intruders in sight with reckless abandon. Aurnozci’s Lair Aurnozci’s lair is a layer of the Abyss called Xulregg. See below for details about this realm. The challenge rating of Aurnozci is 23 (50,000 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Aurnozci can take one of the following lair actions; Aurnozci can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Cocoon. Aurnozci targets one Medium or smaller creature it can see within 60 feet of itself and encases the creature in a constricting cocoon. The target must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or have the restrained condition for 1 minute. A target that starts its turn restrained in this way takes 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage. A creature can use its action to try to tear apart the cocoon, ending the cocoon’s effect with a successful DC 23 Strength (Athletics) check. Insect Swarm. Aurnozci creates a 30-foot-radius sphere of stinging wasps centered on a point within 300 feet of itself. The sphere spreads around corners. The sphere remains for 10 minutes or until Aurnozci uses this lair action again. The sphere’s area is heavily obscured and is difficult terrain. When the sphere appears, each creature in it must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) piercing damage and 16 (3d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this saving throw when it enters the sphere’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there. Regional Effects Xulregg is an oppressively muggy realm known for the following regional effects: Boiling Water. Bodies of water on Xulregg perpetually boil, and even bottled liquids steam when exposed to the layer’s atmosphere. Being immersed in water there doesn’t confer resistance to fire damage, and a creature that starts its turn in water takes 7 (2d6) fire damage. A creature that imbibes a liquid (such as a potion) takes 3 (1d6) fire damage. Fast Metamorphosis. On Xulregg, eggs, larvae, and pupae all develop and metamorphose at ten times their usual rate, regardless of sustenance or any other growing conditions. If Aurnozci dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Cultists of Aurnozci Aurnozci grants its cultists the following trait: Burning Corpse. When the creature dies, its body is reduced to a pile of smoldering embers in the space where it fell. The ashes take 1 minute to cool. Until then, a creature takes 3 (1d6) fire damage when it enters the ashes’ space for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there. Xulregg The Abyssal layer of Xulregg is a sweltering forest of massive trees, rotting undergrowth, and boiling marshes. Locations in Xulregg The following locations are keyed to map 20.1. Gorewood. The center of Xulregg is Gorewood, a massive gum tree in an eternal state of smoldering decay. Gorewood’s trunk is as large as any mountain on the Material Plane, and its winding branches are as broad and meandering as river deltas. Thousands of chambers, tunnels, and halls—all claimed by the cult of Aurnozci—riddle the tree’s rotten interior. Huge sections of the tree crackle and glow with ancient embers, though Gorewood grows faster than any fire can destroy it. Wet, sticky tar seeps from Gorewood’s bark, fueling the tree’s eon-spanning burn but also keeping the fire in check. Firehive. Aurnozci’s nest hangs from one of Gorewood’s strongest, knobbiest branches, secured by a hundred-foot-thick cord of Aurnozci’s iron-hard silk. The nest itself, called the Firehive, resembles a gargantuan wasp nest with an open top. Aurnozci’s power causes the Firehive to throb like a beating heart, and the nest’s surface is hot to the touch. Halfway up the Firehive, a ramshackle platform of regurgitated bones encircles the nest. From here, demonic pilgrims and priests of Aurnozci peer through cracks in the nest’s wall to gaze upon their dread lord. A broken Gorewood limb overlooks the opening at the top of the nest. Aurnozci’s servants throw sacrifices to it from this overlook, and the Eye of Aurnozci conducts profane rituals atop a dais on the tree limb’s edge. Scabbery. When Aurnozci’s minions are destroyed on the Material Plane, their souls slip through cracks in the multiverse and drip to Xulregg to feed Gorewood’s thirsty roots. After a time, Gorewood rebirths the recycled demons, excreting each into its own chrysalis-like pod made from the tree’s fleshy inner wood. The massive hollow chamber in Gorewood from which these chrysalises develop, bulge, and pop is called the Scabbery. Not simply a disgusting moniker, the Scabbery’s name is also a reference to the way that demons reborn here emerge harder, stronger, and crueler than before. Warrens of Rot. The endless miles of sodden tunnels and caves beneath Gorewood are called the Warrens of Rot. Each passage was once a tentacular root that at some point caught fire, burned away, and became a hollow charcoal tube. Intruders caught in Aurnozci’s realm are held in the Warrens of Rot as future sacrifices to the Caged Worm. Strange, fiendish beasts lurk in the Warrens’ unexplored corners, so even powerful demons don’t linger in these tunnels. Whitemarsh. Vile offal drips from the bottom of the Firehive and collects on the ground below. This boggy wetland has become a fertile breeding ground called Whitemarsh: a primordial soup that gives rise to all manner of monsters. The weakest specimens are gobbled up by hungry demons fresh from the Scabbery. Sometimes, powerful behemoths with freakish powers emerge from Whitemarsh. Most such beings flee Xulregg or are captured and sacrificed to Aurnozci, though a few have been allowed to live and serve the Caged Worm as honored guardians. Traits Heat Regeneration. If the temperature around it is 100 degrees Fahrenheit or higher, Aurnozci regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold or radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of its next turn. Aurnozci dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Aurnozci fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Aurnozci has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. Aurnozci casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: Detect Magic , Heat Metal (7th-level version) 2/day each: Darkness , Dispel Magic , H old Person Actions Multiattack. Aurnozci makes one Bite attack and two Tail attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d12 + 8) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Mucus Spray (Recharge 5–6). Aurnozci sprays mucus in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that cone must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions Aurnozci can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Aurnozci regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. Aurnozci moves up to its speed. Tail. Aurnozci makes one Tail attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Aurnozci uses Spellcasting. Conflagration (Costs 2 Actions). Flames momentarily surround Aurnozci. Each creature within 15 feet of Aurnozci must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 27234
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Book of Many Things

