# Aurumvas

**description**: Teleporting Aurumvas Aurumvas’s Greed Is Good bonus action allows him to teleport all over the battlefield. By the time the characters are ready to face him in a mortal showdown, each likely has at least a few expensive magic items or pieces of equipment worth at least 100 gp. That allows Aurumvas to teleport to the most vulnerable and unprotected foe each round and unleash his Greedy Hands attacks upon them. Traits Abyssal Resistance (Costs 2 Souls). When Aurumvas fails a saving throw, he succeeds instead. Lethe. When Aurumvas’s soul count is 0, he has adv­antage on attack rolls, disadvantage on saving throws, and his Intelligence score becomes 3 (−4). Additionally, Aurumvas must use his movement on each of his turns to move as close as possible to the nearest creature he can sense with his soulsight, and then if he is able, he must use his action to attack and attempt to kill that creature. Aurumvas can’t act with any other purpose until he adds 1 to his soul count. Soul Devourer. When Aurumvas reduces a creature who isn’t a Construct or an Undead to 0 hit points or deals damage to a dying creature, the creature must make a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, Aurumvas consumes the creature’s soul and adds 1 to his soul count. A creature whose soul is consumed in this way immediately dies, and they can’t be restored to life by any means short of a w ish spell. Soul Weapons. While Aurumvas’s soul count is 2 or higher, his weapon attacks are magical, and allies within 60 feet of him deal an extra 5 (1d10) psychic damage with weapon attacks. Actions Multiattack. Aurumvas makes three attacks using Greedy Hands, Covetous Bolt, or both. Greedy Hands. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) psychic damage. Aurumvas can burn 1 soul to gain temporary hit points equal to the psychic damage dealt. Covetous Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (5d8) force damage. If the target has spell slots, Aurumvas can burn 2 souls to force the target to expend their highest-level spell slot available with no effect. Bonus Actions Greed Is Good. Aurumvas chooses an object he can see within 30 feet of him that is worth at least 100 gp. He teleports to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of that object. Reactions Absorb Soul. If a demon with a soul count of 1 or higher who Aurumvas can see dies within 60 feet of him, Aurumvas gains 1 soul. Villain Actions Aurumvas has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Time Is Money. Aurumvas warps time with his supernatural greed. Each ally he can see within 120 feet of him moves up to their speed. At the end of this round of combat, Aurumvas rearranges the initiative order in any way he chooses. Action 2 : That’s Ours. Aurumvas chooses up to three magic items he can see within 30 feet of him that aren’t artifacts or of legendary rarity and that don’t require attunement. He teleports each item to an ally who he can see within 30 feet of him, placing it either into their hands or at their feet. If a targeted object is being worn or carried by an enemy, the enemy can make a DC 19 Charisma saving throw, preventing that object from being teleported on a success. Action 3 : At Any Cost. Aurumvas teleports Tiny explosive treasures from his vault to four different points he can see within 120 feet of him. Each creature within 10 feet of one or more of these points must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon, Category 6)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

