# Avassh

**description**: Note: More information about Avassh can be found in its chapter, here . Facing Avassh Like all of the daelkyr, Avassh’s appearance is subjective. The mortal mind can’t entirely comprehend Avassh, and two viewers will see different details when facing the daelkyr. The general impression, however, is of a feminine humanoid wearing barklike armor. Long, prehensile roots emerge from its flesh and suspend it above the ground; while Avassh has a flight speed, this actually reflects this unnatural suspension. What at first appears to be long hair is a mane of writhing vines, which can lash out and crush its enemies. More than any other daelkyr, Avassh has a loose relationship with its physical form. Vegetation in the region around Avassh shivers and shudders. Avassh spreads seeds, and at any point it may dissolve its current body and emerge reborn from one of its seed pods. Wherever it goes, plants secrete strange pollens and scents; the world smells wrong, and leaves rustle in an unfelt wind. Rev and Ban battle Avassh in a swamp. Rev the warforged wrestles against grasping vines that restrain him. The goblin Ban is perched on Rev's shoulder, nocking an arrow to fire at the daelkyr Avassh, whose form resembles that of a female humanoid made of wood and vines, which emerge from its flesh and suspend it above the ground. Atop its head writhes long green vines, which are currently reaching toward Rev as if to grasp him. Avassh’s Lair Avassh is bound in a prison demiplane in Khyber. The demiplane takes the form of a giant rotting tree, with fungus blooming and vines twisting along the slick surface of the rotting wood. Avassh dwells deep within the heart of this Dying Tree, surrounded by corpse gardens and blight creatures. While Avassh focuses on its work, the roots of the Dying Tree burrow out through Khyber, seeking new soil. Where the roots find purchase, they can forge a temporary connection between the two points, triggering the regional effects described below. If it suits your story, and the proper rituals are enacted and the energies converge, Avassh can physically manifest at the terminus of a root. Avassh can take lair actions anywhere within the Dying Tree’s root structure. Avassh can’t travel more than 1,000 feet away from the root; if its body is transported more than 1,000 feet from the root, it immediately decomposes, and Avassh uses its Rebirth legendary action to reappear at the root terminus. Lair Actions. While in its lair, Avassh can take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Avassh can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; it can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Infectious Growth. Avassh releases a plume of infectious blight spores. Each creature it can see within its lair must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or become infected with a blight spore. Arboreal Temptation. Avassh grows a magical tree in an unoccupied space it can see within its lair. Each creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of that tree must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature must use its movement on its turn to end its turn as close as possible to that tree. Each creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of the tree (on that turn or subsequent turns) must pluck a leaf or fruit from its boughs, and a creature that does so can’t regain hit points until the end of its next turn. Awaken Minion. Avassh conjures either one treant or two shambling mounds in unoccupied spaces it can see within its lair. The creatures disappear when they are reduced to 0 hit points or when Avassh uses this lair action again. Regional Effects. A region touched by the roots of the Dying Tree can be warped in one or more of these ways; if Avassh dies or the roots are destroyed, the effects fade away after 1d10 days: Aberrant Blooms. Natural plants within 1 mile of the root terminus may develop unusual traits—while they retain their normal appearance, they could become poisonous or psychedelic, or start drawing on a source of sustenance other than sunlight. Alien Flora. Unnatural plants can appear within 1 mile of the root terminus, as such as those described in this chapter. Unnatural Growth. Plant growth and decay is unnaturally accelerated within 5 miles of the root terminus. Traits Alien Mind. If a creature deals psychic damage to Avassh or tries to read its thoughts, that creature must succeed on a DC 22 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. The stunned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Blight Spores. When Avassh uses its Ligneous Claw or Infectious Growth, it has a chance of infecting creatures with a blight disease carried by its corrupted spores. A diseased creature suffers the following cumulative effects for each blight spore infecting it: Its hit point maximum is reduced by 10. When it makes a saving throw against any of Avassh’s effects, it must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the saving throw. Blight spore disease can be cured by the lesser restoration spell or similar magic; when cured, all blight spores currently infecting the creature are destroyed. If blight spores reduce a creature’s hit point maximum to 0, it dies, then rises at the start of its next turn as a dolgaunt under Avassh’s control; this dolgaunt is both a Plant and an Aberration. This transformation can be undone only by a wish spell. Legendary Resistance (3/day). If Avassh fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Avassh has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. Avassh regains 20 hit points at the start of its turn. If Avassh takes radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of Avassh’s next turn. Avassh dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Ruinous Seed. At the start of its turn, Avassh grows a Medium seed pod in an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet of it. A seed pod has AC 12 and 50 hit points. Creatures within 5 feet of the seed pod when it grows take 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. Actions Multiattack. Avassh makes two Ligneous Claw attacks and two Thrashing Vines attacks. Ligneous Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) slashing damage, and the target is infected with a blight spore. Thrashing Vines. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) slashing damage, and the target is restrained until the end of its next turn. Mourning Bloom. Avassh grows a bloom of haunting roses from a point it can see within 120 feet of it, and the roses cry out with the voices of the blood that fertilizes their soil. Each creature in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 22 (4d10) psychic damage and becomes frightened of Avassh. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and is not frightened. A frightened creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, taking 22 (4d10) psychic damage on a failed save, and ending the effect on itself on a successful one. Rootbinding. Avassh attempts to remake one creature it can see within 30 feet of it into a twisted tree. The target must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, the target narrowly escapes being remade, and instead takes 55 (10d10) necrotic damage. On a failed save, the target’s body is twisted into the form of a Large tree, becoming paralyzed and rootbound. A rootbound creature must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of its turns. On a failed save, it is paralyzed until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, it is no longer paralyzed, but has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and its speed is reduced to 10 feet. The creature continues making this saving throw at the start of each of its turns until it either succeeds twice or fails twice (not including the initial failure that made that creature rootbound). If the creature succeeds twice, the effect ends and the creature takes 55 (10d10) necrotic damage. If the creature fails twice, the effect ends, the creature dies, and it is turned into an inanimate tree; this transformation can be undone only by a wish spell. Bonus Actions Teleport. Avassh teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Legendary Actions Avassh can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Avassh regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Vine Whip. Avassh makes a Thrashing Vine attack. Burst Seed Pod. Avassh chooses one seed pod it can see that was created by its Ruinous Seed. That seed pod is destroyed and explodes in a 20-foot-radius cloud of noxious fumes. Creatures within the fumes must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures are affected even if they hold their breath or don’t need to breathe. Rebirth (Costs 3 Actions). Avassh discards its current body and reemerges from one of its seed pods, destroying the seed pod in the process. Avassh ends all diseases and conditions afflicting it, and if it has fewer than half its maximum hit points, it reemerges with half its maximum hit points (143). Avassh can use this legendary action while incapacitated.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 21558
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

