# Azaka Warrior

**description**: This enormous insectile abomination resembles a horrific cross between praying mantis and crab. Its multi-faceted eyes glow with blue-white light. Azaka warriors stand about 7 feet tall and weigh nearly 1,500 pounds. Rank and File. Azaka warriors serve as the rank-and-file grunts and workers of their hives. Their formidable pincers serve as both deadly weapons and efficient digging implements. While azaka thought-seekers serve to help the hive find sources of arcane energy and transform other lifeforms into insectile slaves, azaka warriors do the actual labor of digging out tunnels and subduing victims for the thought-seekers to entrap. When encountered outside their tunnels, azaka warriors are typically together on a mission to accomplish one or both of these tasks. They almost never work individually. Azaka warriors are the most commonly encountered of their species. Within the observed structure of azaka hives, warriors’ roles are more multifaceted than their name may indicate. While they primarily serve as physical protection for their hive and for thought-seekers, azaka warriors also serve as collectors of “raw materials” for thought-seekers to be used in the creation of insectile thralls. Azaka warriors are also required to maintain and upkeep azaka hives in the absence of appropriate insectile creature servants for the task. Disturbing Biology. The life-cycle of azaka is poorly understood, though information so far gleaned indicates that the azaka are wholly incapable of reproduction among their own species. Rather, it appears that azaka are individually grown to set specifications through a means still unknown. Autopsied azaka possess physical pigmentation markers on their organs and the interior of their chitinous exoskeletons that appear to be a form of unknown language (perhaps even the written form of the azaka language itself). Azaka also do not appear to grow or age in any recognizable manner, showing none of the signs of physical growth or age that other insects do, such as molting. Azaka likewise do not need to sleep or eat in a conventional sense, but instead derive sustenance from magic and valuable gemstones. Hive Dependent. Outside of a hive mind, azaka warriors are degenerate creatures with limited cognitive capabilities. Lone azaka warriors rarely last long as they maintain their typical azaka aggressiveness and ferocity, lending themselves to fatal encounters with non-azaka. In these encounters, the stunted and nearly feral azaka care little for tactical assaults and will initiate combat with any creature without provocation. A group of isolated azaka warriors typically choose to perform a special ritual that transforms one of their number from a warrior into a thought-seeker, though the cognitive function to not only conceptualize but also perform such a ritual is far beyond what a typical azaka warrior is capable of, lending credence to the notion that this may be some pre-programmed behavior that lies dormant within the azaka subconscious. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Corbel; panose-1:2 11 5 3 2 2 4 2 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1610611985 1073783883 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.AetheraStatBlockDescription, li.AetheraStatBlockDescription, div.AetheraStatBlockDescription {mso-style-name:"Aethera Stat Block Description"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Corbel",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: aberration (aether)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

