# Azaka

**description**: The azaka are a ravenous plague of ancient origin. Dwelling deep beneath the crust of icy worlds, the azaka tunnel and search relentlessly, transforming thousands of miles of earth into crystalline tunnels and honeycombed hives seething with their kind. These voracious creatures feed on rich deposits of gemstones and precious metals, especially aetherite (see Appendix 1: Sci-fi Rules , pg. xx). They seek out sources of magical power to nourish themselves and bring more of their own kind into the world. Little is known or understood about the azaka, from the structure of their society, to their true numbers, to even their motivations. Captured azaka taken from their hive have savage, animalistic intelligence and impart little knowledge of their kind. What little is known of the azaka is a mixture of educated guesses, supposition, and facts gleaned from divination magic. Insatiable Slavers. For azaka, the desire to subjugate other organisms is second only to their drive to consume aetherite. The azaka have the ability to entrap other creatures within aetherite-infused cocoons that transform their victims into mindless, insectile versions of their former species to serve as mindless slaves to the ever-moving machinations of the hive. Alien Minds. Azaka society is divided into three known groups: the insectile slaves (see the insectile creature template), who perform a variety of tasks; azaka warriors, who serve as laborers and combatants; and azaka thought-seekers, who act as hubs for azaka hive-minds. Azaka do not have leaders but make decisions as a hive mind. Arcane Affinity. Azaka thrive on radioactivity and on magical energy, but areas of antimagic pose great danger to them. An azaka in such an area temporarily loses all benefits of the azaka hive mind (see below) and its magical abilities. This persists until the azaka is no longer in the area. Netherite poisoning affects them similarly, with the effects lingering until the effects of that poisoning are removed. Azaka mercilessly kill any of their own who are cut off from the hive mind in this way, even if the effects are only temporary. Azaka hive minds The strength and powers of an azaka hive mind depend on the number of azaka in the hive. For purposes of this ability, an azaka hive is defined as the number of creatures with the azaka subtype within a 1-mile radius of an azaka thought seeker. In combat an azaka hive mind acts on its own initiative count as a separate entity using its Intelligence modifier to determine its effective initiative, provided at least two azaka remain linked in the hive mind. If the number of azaka drops to one or fewer, the hive mind dissipates and can take no more actions. An azaka hive mind may take one action each round and may cast any of its available magic powers through any azaka currently in the hive mind, using that azaka as the point of origin for the effect. Azaka bonded into a hive mind gain a collective, distributed intelligence that increases with each azaka added to the hive mind collective. This collective consciousness is not only reflected into individual azaka, granting them a temporary boost in mental acumen, but also serves as a separate gestalt entity that exists entirely inside the collective consciousness, serving as a guide and director for the networked azaka. The nature of this consciousness, its wants, and desires is not understood but seems to be the driving force guiding the azaka’s consumption of magical energies and their rapid expansionism. Azaka Hive Mind Abilities Azaka hive minds have a minimum Intelligence score, a disruptive aura, and a number of legendary actions that vary with their size, as summarized below. Hive Size Intelligence Spell Disruption Chance Spell Disruption DC Legendary Actions Small (2 to 8) 15 10% 12 1 Medium (9 to 30) 17 20% 13 2 Large (31 to 80) 19 30% 14 2 Huge (81+) 21+ 40% 15 3 Disruptive Aura. A spell cast by a non-azaka creature within 30 feet of an azaka that is a member of a hive mind has a chance to consume a spell slot but not function. The percent chance is based on the size of the hive mind. A successful Wisdom saving throw by the spell’s caster negates this effect and allows the spell to function normally. The save DC is also based on the size of the hive mind (see above). At the GM’s option, this disruptive aura also may affect technological items, especially if using aethertech weapons as described in the Aethera Campaign Setting. Legendary Actions An azaka hive-mind can be represented in combat using legendary actions. The hive mind gains a number of actions each round based on its size (see above), choosing from the options below. It can take one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The hive mind regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Psychic Thrust. The hive mind targets a creature within 60 feet. The creature takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage. Brain Scramble (Costs 2 Actions). The hive mind targets a creature within 60 feet. The target, and all of the hive mind’s enemies within 10 feet of the target, must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or lose the ability to communicate and behave as if under the effects of the confusion spell. These effects last 1 minute. At the end of each of its turns, an affected target can make a Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, this effect ends for that target. Sense Thoughts. Until the end of its next turn, the hive mind automatically detects and locates all conscious creatures within 60 feet, as if it possessed truesight with respect to those creatures. Induce Paranoia. The hive mind targets a creature within 60 feet. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or it becomes hostile to all other creatures for 1 minute. During that time it cannot treat others as allies or be treated as an ally, can take no actions that directly benefit another creature (such as casting beneficial spells on them), and must attempt opportunity attacks whenever any creature provokes them. Azaka are large insectile creatures that feed on radiation. Their telepathic abilities merge the minds of all azaka within range of each other into a single hive mind. Other Rumored Azaka While azaka warriors and thought-seekers are the most commonly encountered members of their species (along with gruesome insectile creature slaves) there are feverish stories of other azaka that may roam the world. Aetherweaver: Some reports claim that groups of azaka smaller than a human were weaving pure magical energy into a crystalline fiber to create organic hive-like structures in the remains of an abandoned subterranean settlement. These creatures were described to be three to four feet in height with spindly legs nearly twice as long and capable of fabricating structures from raw energy. Dream Eater: Rumors tell of a remote whaling community that collapsed after its residents experienced a shared nightmare of a multi-tentacled insect-like creature burrowing its tendrils into their skulls. The town’s survivors awoke terrified and reported vivid hallucinations of azaka inside their compound. These hallucinations reached a fever pitch when members of the militia began attacking the figments, resulting in a nearly complete massacre of the entire settlement. Harvester: Reported by a band of scouts during a blizzard in a petrified forest, the purported azaka harvester is at least gargantuan in size and capable of flight. The scouts were not able to get a clear look at the creature but reported seeing bright magical radiance coming from inside the creature’s chitinous body. This alleged azaka gained its name after the scouts discovered an itinerant stone giant village devoid of all life. The scout team professes that the azaka “harvested” all of the stone giants, but how one such creature was able to perform such a task is unknown. Necropolis: Of all the rumored azaka sightings, the azaka necropolis is the most harrowing. The azaka necropolis is a potentially colossal azaka that resembles a cross between a praying mantis and a centipede with thousands of scythe-like legs. This creature was described as being followed by a rolling wake of reanimated dead across an open tundra. It apparently issues an exhaust of black smoke from its mouth and eyes as it travels, leading some to suggest that it may be some form of mechanical construct cobbled together from the remains of fallen azaka. Further complicating these rumors is the fact that the azaka have no reported ability to control, or affinity towards, the undead, especially since many of the azakas’ powers have no effect on undead creatures. Reaper: Azaka reapers exist, but whether they are an independent form of the species of a warrior azaka with specialized psychic magic capabilities is unknown. Reaper azaka are reported to be of roughly the same size and shape as warrior azaka, with scythelike forelimbs and the ability to utilize warping spells abilities to teleport short distances. These hit-and-run attacks are uncommon and no reaper azaka corpse has ever been retrieved from an encounter site, nor has one been taken alive. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.H1Body, li.H1Body, div.H1Body {mso-style-name:"H1 Body"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-next:Normal; margin-top:12.0pt; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:none; page-break-after:avoid; mso-hyphenate:none; tab-stops:9.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; text-transform:uppercase; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold;}p.StatBlockTitle, li.StatBlockTitle, div.StatBlockTitle {mso-style-name:"Stat Block Title"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block Title Char"; mso-style-next:Normal; margin-top:12.0pt; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; tab-stops:right 144.0pt 216.0pt; font-size:9.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; font-variant:small-caps; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold; mso-bidi-font-weight:normal; mso-no-proof:yes;}p.ItemDescription, li.ItemDescription, div.ItemDescription {mso-style-name:"Item Description"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.AetheraBodyTextIndented, li.AetheraBodyTextIndented, div.AetheraBodyTextIndented {mso-style-name:"Aethera Body Text Indented"; mso-style-update:auto; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}span.StatBlockTitleChar {mso-style-name:"Stat Block Title Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block Title"; mso-ansi-font-size:9.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; font-variant:small-caps; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold; mso-bidi-font-weight:normal; mso-no-proof:yes;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

