# Baalzebul

**description**: Baalzebul, is an archdevil and the lord of Maladomini, the seventh layer of the Nine Hells. He is known as both the Lord of Lies and the Lord of the Flies because his tightly woven web of intrigue traps even the smallest fly. In recent centuries he was cursed with a new hideous form by Asmodeus. This form earned him a new title—The Slug Archduke. Baalzebul was originally known as Triel, one of the most powerful and beautiful angels to be found in Celestia. Triel’s selfish acts in the name of achieving his perfection resulted in his corruption and exile from Celestia. After his fall, Asmodeus, perhaps out of some lingering sense of sympathy, quickly promoted Baalzebul to the ranks of devilish nobility. Baalzebul’s ruthless lust for power served him well and before long he not only displaced the ancient, original Lord of Maladomini but managed to become the only archdevil to rule two layers of the Nine Hells, although he ruled Malbolge through the devil Moloch. However, Baalzebul’s pride continued to be his undoing. When he attempted to take Asmodeus’s throne, his schemes were discovered and thwarted. Asmodeus inflicted a series of bizarre penalties upon Baalzebul. He was cursed to appear as a slug for one year per lie he had told to a devil, and any deal he struck with a mortal would result in a disaster for the participant. His castle was turned to excrement and filled with filth and his dominion of Malbolge was stripped from him. Despite his punishments, Baalzebul is still dangerously cunning and charismatic. Even while trapped in the form of a slug, he remained the Lord of Lies, whose every deception was made with ease. Every one of his untruths is told with a specific purpose in mind, and only other devils are safe from his lies. Baalzebul’s Two Forms When dealing with enemies or unfortunate subordinates, Baalzebul generally manifests as a powerful winged creature. However, the characters are most likely to encounter this archdevil in his slug form after he has incurred Asmodeus’s wrath again. The accompanying stat block works for both forms except that Baalzebul’s movement in his slug form is replaced with: 20 ft., burrow 20 ft., climb 20 ft. Baalzebul’s Lair Baalzebul’s lair resides within whichever city is the newest he has constructed. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Baalzebul can take one lair action to cause the following effect or one from the archdevil lair action list ; he can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Protective Burrow. Baalzebul uses his burrow speed to dig into the ground. He gains half-cover when buried 10 feet and three-quarters cover at 20 feet. Regional Effects The region containing Baalzebul’s lair is corrupted by his presence, which creates the following effect: Filth. Within 1 mile of the lair, stinking piles of filth accumulate as if from nowhere. The entire area is covered with garbage and feces and is treated as difficult terrain. If Baalzebul dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede Baalzebul’s darkvision. Fiendish Regeneration. Baalzebul regains 20 hit points at the start of his turn. If he takes radiant damage this trait doesn’t function at the start of his next turn. Baalzebul dies only if he starts his turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Lord of Flies. Insects don’t attack Baalzebul, and he can issue orders to them. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Baalzebul fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Baalzebul has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Stench of the Slug (Slug Form Only). A creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of Baalzebul must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or have the poisoned condition until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature is immune to this stench for 1 hour. Actions Multiattack. Baalzebul uses Heart of Pestilence (if available), then makes three Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. Pungent Eruption (Slug Form Only, Recharge 4-6). Baalzebul causes refuse and caustic liquid to spill from the ground at a point he can see within 300 feet. Each creature in a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. Targets take 36 (8d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Creatures that fail the save have the poisoned condition for 1 minute. Heart of Pestilence (Recharge 5–6). Baalzebul channels pestilence into his body, sickening creatures within 50 feet that can see him. Sickened creatures must make a DC 21 Charisma saving throw, followed by a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. Failing the Charisma save makes a creature have the frightened condition, while failing the Constitution save makes a creature weak. While weakened, a creature deals half damage on melee attacks. Both effects last for 1 minute or until a Greater Restoration spell or similar is cast. Spellcasting (Winged Form Only). Baalzebul casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 24): At will: Animate Dead, Darkness, Detect Evil and Good, Detect Magic, Dispel Evil and Good, Hallow, Hold Monster, Suggestion, Teleport, True Seeing 1/day each: Symbol (pain or insanity), Wish Bonus Actions Displace. Baalzebul magically teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing and carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Legendary Actions Baalzebul can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Baalzebul regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Pummel. Baalzebul makes a Slam attack. Teleport. Baalzebul uses Displace. Insect Gorge (Costs 2 Actions). Baalzebul disgorges a swarm of biting flies at a point he can see within 300 feet of himself. Each creature within a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 44 (8d10) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The biting flies persist for 1 minute, or until Baalzebul uses this ability again. Creatures that enter the flies’ area or end their turn inside it must repeat the saving throw. Call Underling (Costs 3 Actions). Baalzebul summons an allied bone devil in an unoccupied space that he can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28645
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Chains of Asmodeus

