# Baba Yaga's Horsemen Black Night

**description**: These mounted knights wield great weapons as swift as dawn, as bright as the blazing sun, and as cold as the grave. The white horseman is a young rider full of promise, the red rider a man in his prime, and the black rider a scarred and bearded fellow, his eyes dark and his mouth set in a grim frown. They ride with purpose on powerful steeds. Baba Yaga’s three horsemen are legends in their own right. Bright Day, Red Sun, and Black Night (also known as the White, Red, and Black horsemen) are her faithful emissaries, scouts, and warriors abroad. The three horsemen change over time, but they are typically male, human warriors. Their appearance is distinctive: each dresses in colors and lacquered armor and trappings to suit their name, with their magical horses colored to match. Their roles appear to coincide with their appointed offices, although their precise relationship to Baba Yaga is the source of much speculation. Varied Origin. They may be serving Grandmother Winter for a time in exchange for a favor or bargain, or they may be cursed to replace a previous horseman they slew. In either case, Baba Yaga is the source of their power. The horsemen are innately connected to the domain of time; each represents part of the day, as measured by the sun. Bright Day is bound to and governs dawn to mid-day, Red Sun from mid-day to sundown, and Black Night rules until daybreak. While Baba Yaga herself is wily and capricious, her three horsemen are bound to cosmological forces that are uniform and constant, which is reflected in their alignment and demeanor. One Rises, Two Set. The horsemen never co-exist with one another except within the confines of their mistresses’ Dancing Hut and the fenced yard around it. Each one must yield his presence on the Material Plane to his successor in rotation (this varies on other planes, depending on intervals of day and night). Forcing two horsemen to co-exist on the Material Plane places a perilous strain on reality. Bringing all three together could trigger a primal magical event or chronal catastrophe. Timeless Nature. The horsemen don’t age and don’t require food, drink, or sleep. Baba Yaga’s Horsemen in Midgard The great witch Baba Yaga is a power to be reckoned with in Midgard, always plotting with her daughters, the vila, and seeking to gobble up the vile gnomes whose souls she claims are rightfully hers. Baba Yaga rules over great ley line magic, and commands the elements and enchantments with ease, but she cannot be everywhere at once. Three of her most faithful servants are the White Horseman, the Red Horseman and the Black Horseman—embodied forms of the times of day, and a symbol of Baba Yaga’s mastery of time itself. She uses nicknames for them, calling them “My Bright Dawn, my Red Sun, and my Dark Midnight” because they are bound by time (and some believe, because they control dawn, noon, and sunset). She has many other servants as well, but the horsemen, her dancing hut, and the sorcerer Koshchei the Deathless are three of the greatest. Encounters with Baba Yaga’s Horsemen The horsemen make good foes for the long term; their power is great enough that they can ignore even great dangers when serving their mistress. Here are some possible encounters involving them: Red Sun burns down a village while the PCs are sleeping at the inn. If questioned or challenged, he says nothing, but provides a scroll from Baba Yaga ordering the village’s destruction. Red Sun rides off into the dawn. Black Night bears a similar scroll, asking an elvish character to provide Baba Yaga with a pint of blood; if the request is granted, Black Night leaves without incident, but if it is denied, a young human boy is found outside the party’s sleeping chambers, drained of all blood. At noon, Bright Day leads a parade of strange creatures, everything from shadow fey duelists and enchantresses to a glowing will o’wisp and a bright malakbel demon, burning so bright it set fire to crops and thatched huts near it. The fey mention Bright Day is going to pay Baba Yaga’s respects to the River King. If the party chooses to join the procession, they cannot leave it until sunset—and may find their company is not entirely welcome. Traits Innate Spellcasting: The horseman is a 12th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Charisma (save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: ray of frost 1/day each: dimension door, fire shield, haste, slow 2/day each: darkness 3/day each: ethereal jaunt, phantom steed (appears as a horse colored appropriately to the horseman), plane shift (self and steed only) Magic Resistance: The horseman has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Peerless Rider: ny attacks directed at the horseman’s mount targets the horseman instead. Its mount gains the benefit of the rider’s damage and condition immunities, and if the horseman passes a saving throw against an area effect, the mount takes no damage. Quick Draw: The horseman can switch between wielding its lance and longsword as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack: The horseman makes three attacks with its lance or longsword. It can use Temporal Strike with one of these attacks when it is available. Lance: Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 12 (1d12 + 6) piercing damage. Disadvantage within 5 ft. Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 10 (1d8 + 6 ) slashing damage. Temporal Strike (recharge 5-6): When the horseman strikes a target with a melee attack, in addition to taking normal damage, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or instantly age 3d10 years. A creature that ages this way has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws based on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution until the aging is reversed. A creature that ages beyond its lifespan dies immediately. The aging reverses automatically after 24 hours, or it can be reversed magically by greater restoration or comparable magic. A creature that succeeds on the save is immune to the temporal strike effect for 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

