# Baernoloth

**description**: This horrid creature stands 9 feet tall and weighs about 500 pounds. Its gaunt oversized head looks like that of a horse's skull, with thin skin barely covering it. Necrotic ooze drips from its foul maw. Disgusting warts and pus-filled sores riddle its leathery hide. Its gangly limbs end in terrible claws that can rip flesh like a knife through butter. Reclusive Lords. It is said that the baernoloths were the first yugoloths or were the creators of the yugoloths. Whether that is true or not, the baernoloth all but vanished, leaving the ultroloths in charge. The baernoloths went to the Gray Waste, and now live as reclusive hermits in well-guarded towers. They no longer interact with other yugoloths, except for ultroloths, who pay tribute to them, in return for the baernoloth's wisdom and guidance. Ultroloths may command armies of yugoloths, but it is the baernoloths that secretly provide direction to the ultroloths. Collector of Secrets. Not unlike arcanoloths, baernoloths collect secret lore and answers to mysteries that they can use for their ends. They also appear to know more about other fiends; in particular, their strengths and weaknesses that they can exploit. It is often for this reason that ultroloths seek them out. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the baernoloth fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The baernoloth has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The baernoloth makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) force damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and the baernoloth targets one visible creature within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or take psychic damage equal to the Bite attack damage dealt. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) force damage and the baernoloth targets one visible creature within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or take psychic damage equal to the Claw attack damage dealt. Teleport. The baernoloth magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Pain and Anguish (Recharge 6). Each visible creature of the baernoloth's choice within 60 feet of the baernoloth must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 36 (8d8) psychic damage and is incapacitated for 1 minute. An incapacitated creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated. Spellcasting. The baernoloth casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: alter self, detect thoughts, invisibility (self only), suggestion 2/day each: cloudkill, dispel magic, fear, synaptic static 1/day each: power word pain, symbol (as an action), weird Legendary Actions The baernoloth can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The baernoloth regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The baernoloth makes a Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The baernoloth uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The baernoloth uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Yugoloth)
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

