# Banderhobb Bogeyman

**description**: Once in awhile, there will be a banderhobb of exceptional guile and skill that reforms in the Shadowfell. Birthing the legend of the Bogeyman, this deadly banderhobb can shift from the Shadowfell and into the Material Plane. While it enjoys feeding on flesh, the banderhobb bogeyman needs to consume psychic energy generated by frightened beings to fuel its magical abilities. It is not unusual for a banderhobb bogeyman to lead a band of banderhobb shadow assassins and raiders. Traits Feed on Fear. A frightened creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the banderhobb takes 3 (1d6) psychic damage, unless the banderhobb is incapacitated. Each time a creature takes damage this way, the banderhobb regains 3 (1d6) hit points and gains advantage on melee attack rolls until the end of its next turn. Resonant Connection. If the banderhobb has even a tiny piece of a creature or an object in its possession, such as a lock of hair or a splinter of wood, it knows the most direct route to that creature or object if it is within 1 mile of the banderhobb. Actions Multiattack. The banderhobb uses Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack, one Tongue attack, and two Claw attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Shadow Step. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (5d6 + 5) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the banderhobb can't use its Bite attack or Tongue attack on another target. Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (4d6) necrotic damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the target is pulled to a space within 5 feet of the banderhobb. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the banderhobb's next turn. Swallow. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Medium or smaller creature grappled by the banderhobb. Hit: 22 (5d6 + 5) piercing damage. The creature is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the banderhobb, and it takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage at the start of each of the banderhobb’s turns. A creature reduced to 0 hit points in this way stops taking the necrotic damage and becomes stable. The banderhobb can have only one creature swallowed at a time. While the banderhobb isn’t incapacitated, it can regurgitate the creature at any time (no action required) in a space within 5 feet of it. The creature exits prone. If the banderhobb dies, it likewise regurgitates a swallowed creature. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the banderhobb's choice that is within 60 feet of the banderhobb and aware of it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the banderhobb's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Shadow Step. The banderhobb teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space of dim light or darkness that it can see. Spellcasting. The banderhobb casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: darkness, detect thoughts, phantasmal force 2/day each: major image, phantasmal killer, plane shift (self only) Bonus Actions Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the banderhobb takes the Hide action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

