# Banderhobb Shadow Assassin

**description**: Banderhobbs usually have a short existence. They expire once they fulfill their duties, leaving only a puddle of dark goo and a puff of shadow. In rare instances, however, a banderhobb may reform in the Shadowfell and continue to live the rest of its existence there, evolving into more mature and dangerous versions of their standard ilk. They eventually band together, loosely kept in line by the most powerful in their group. They are often hired and summoned by fiends, cultists, and evil spellcasters to serve as mercenaries. Traits Assassinate. During its first turn, the banderhobb has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn. Any hit the banderhobb scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit. Resonant Connection. If the banderhobb has even a tiny piece of a creature or an object in its possession, such as a lock of hair or a splinter of wood, it knows the most direct route to that creature or object if it is within 1 mile of the banderhobb. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The banderhobb deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the banderhobb that isn't incapacitated and the banderhobb doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Multiattack. The banderhobb makes one Bite attack and one Tongue attack. It can replace one attack with a use of Shadow Step. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the banderhobb can't use its Bite attack or tongue attack on another target. Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (3d6) necrotic damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the target is pulled to a space within 5 feet of the banderhobb. Swallow. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Medium or smaller creature grappled by the banderhobb. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) piercing damage. The creature is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the banderhobb, and it takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage at the start of each of the banderhobb’s turns. A creature reduced to 0 hit points in this way stops taking the necrotic damage and becomes stable. The banderhobb can have only one creature swallowed at a time. While the banderhobb isn’t incapacitated, it can regurgitate the creature at any time (no action required) in a space within 5 feet of it. The creature exits prone. If the banderhobb dies, it likewise regurgitates a swallowed creature. Shadow Step. The banderhobb magically teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space of dim light or darkness that it can see. Bonus Actions Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the banderhobb takes the Hide action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

