# Bandersnatch

**description**: “ But while he was seeking with thimbles and care, A Bandersnatch swiftly drew nigh And grabbed at the Banker, who shrieked in despair, For he knew it was useless to fly." — The Hunting of the Snark by Lewis Carroll Ferocious and quick on its feet, the bandersnatch is a consummate predator. It is a muscular fey creature with a deep-chested body, round ears, and a tuft at the end of its tail. Parts of its coat could easily be mistaken for coniferous tree needles, allowing the bandersnatch to camouflage itself in a forest. Terrible Claws . The bandersnatch has venomous claws that putrefy a target. As the venom courses through the veins of a living creature, it decomposes the target’s flesh and eventually kills its prey. This allows the bandersnatch to stalk a dying target and scavenge the remains as a meal. Tactics . This fast predator chases down prey much like a big cat. It stalks a target using its superior camouflage before running at a target to utilize its Pounce trait. Should it succeed in knocking its prey prone, the bandersnatch uses its bonus Bite attack. It singularly focuses on a target it has taken down and releases poisonous fumes to keep others at bay with its Noxious Stench legendary action. The bandersnatch instinctively backs down after it has been reduced to 20 or fewer hit points, taking the Disengage action before retreating. Putrefying Lore At the GM's discretion, a character can learn to cure the bandersnatch's venom if they have a background that involves healing or fey ancestry, or if they have proficiency in the Survival skill or with a poisoner's kit. Any other character who succeeds on a DC 12 Intelligence (Nature) check knows how to cure the venom. Forest Camouflage. The bandersnatch has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in forest terrain. Pounce . If the bandersnatch moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the bandersnatch can make one Bite attack against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack . The bandersnatch makes one Bite attack and one Putrefying Claw attack. Bite . Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. Putrefying Claw . Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage, and the target is infected with putrefying venom. At the start of each of the target’s turns, the target takes 3 (1d6) poison damage. If the target suffers this effect for 1 hour, the venom putrefies the target’s flesh and kills the target. Any effect that cures disease or ends the poisoned condition removes the venom from the target. A creature that spends 1 minute working with the dead bandersnatch’s remains and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check creates one dose of an antidote for the putrefying venom, which can be consumed as an action and ends the venom effect. This check can be attempted multiple times with the creature’s remains. Legendary Actions The bandersnatch can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The bandersnatch regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Putrefying Claw . The bandersnatch makes one Putrefying Claw attack. Noxious Stench (Costs 2 Actions) . The bandersnatch emits a toxic cloud from its needle-like fur. Each creature within 60 feet of the bandersnatch must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the bandersnatch’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 23348
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 13

