# Banelich

**description**: During the time when the Church of Bane first rose to power, its most powerful clergy were slain by the forces of good. Unwilling to risk any more deaths of his most powerful and devout priests, the God of Strife provided the knowledge of a vile rite that would grant the performer immortality in the form of Lichdom. If the banelich was destroyed but its phylactery was not, it enables the banelich to reform, recover, and return to serve the will of Bane once again. Liches This section presents two variety of liches - the banelich and the pactlich. Both liches have the same lair actions and regional effects as the lich (MM). Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the lich fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rejuvenation. If it has a phylactery, a destroyed lich gains a new body in 1d10 days, regaining all its hit points and becoming active again. The new body appears within 5 feet of the phylactery. Turn Resistance. The lich has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns Undead. Actions Multiattack. The lich makes two Coldfire attacks. Paralyzing Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (3d6) cold damage. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Coldfire. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) cold damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Spellcasting. The lich casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): At will: guidance, mending, thaumaturgy 3/day each: command, dispel magic, hold person 1/day each: antimagic field, banishment, blade barrier, contagion, flame strike, freedom of movement, gate, guardian of faith * * The lich casts this spell before combat. Grasp of Death (1/Day). Melee Spell Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or its hit points drop to 0. On a success, a creature takes 28 (8d6) necrotic damage. Bonus Actions Divine Word (1/Day). The lich casts divine word using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19). Legendary Actions The lich can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The lich regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Cantrip. The lich casts a cantrip. Coldfire. The lich uses its Coldfire. Paralyzing Touch (Costs 2 Actions). The lich uses its Paralyzing Touch. Painwrack (Costs 2 Actions). The lich fixes its gaze on one creature it can see within 10 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or take 16 (3d10) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. The stunned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn't stunned. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the lich's Painwrack for the next 24 hours. Disrupt Life (Costs 3 Actions). Each non-Undead creature within 20 feet of the lich must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 21 (6d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

