# Baphomet

**description**: The demon lord Baphomet, also known as the Horned King and the Prince of Beasts, rules over minotaurs and those with cruel hearts. He is worshiped by those who want to break the confines of civility and unleash their bestial natures. Over time, Baphomet’s cultists become tainted by his influence, gaining bloodshot eyes and coarse, thickening hair. Small horns eventually sprout from the forehead. In time, a devoted cultist might transform entirely into a minotaur—considered the greatest gift of the Prince of Beasts. Baphomet appears as a great, black-furred minotaur 20 feet tall with six iron horns. A hateful light burns in his red eyes. He wields a great glaive called Heartcleaver, but sometimes casts this deadly weapon aside so that he can charge his enemies and gore them with his horns, trampling them into the earth and rending them with his teeth like a beast. If Baphomet is killed anywhere other than the Abyss, he re-forms at full strength in the great, blood-spattered labyrinth that spans his layer of the Abyss. Traits Charge. If Baphomet moves at least 10 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 16 (3d10) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 25 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone. Innate Spellcasting. Baphomet’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 18). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect magic 3/day each: dispel magic, dominate beast, hunter’s mark, maze, wall of stone 1/day: teleport Labyrinthine Recall. Baphomet can perfectly recall any path he has traveled, and he is immune to the maze spell. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Baphomet fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Baphomet has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. Baphomet’s weapon attacks are magical. Reckless. At the start of his turn, Baphomet can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attack rolls against him have advantage until the start of his next turn. Actions Multiattack. Baphomet makes three attacks: one with Heartcleaver, one with his bite, and one with his gore attack. Heartcleaver. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d10 + 10) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8 + 10) piercing damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d6 + 10) piercing damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Baphomet’s choice within 120 feet of him and aware of him must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. These later saves have disadvantage if Baphomet is within line of sight of the creature. If a creature succeeds on any of these saves or the effect ends on it, the creature is immune to Baphomet’s Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions Baphomet can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Baphomet regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Heartcleaver Attack. Baphomet makes a melee attack with Heartcleaver. Charge (Costs 2 Actions). Baphomet moves up to his speed, then makes a gore attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28744
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Baldur's Gate - Descent into Avernus

