# Basilisk Companion (PB 3)

**description**: They’re great guard dogs. You just gotta raise ’em from eggs. No, no. Don’t look her in the eye. She turned the tax collector to stone the other day when he tried to pet her. She’s just a big softie, really. With eight legs, a scaled rough hide, and razor-sharp teeth coated in poison, the basilisk is a deadly threat—even aside from their petrifying eye beams. This dreadful creature can fell the mightiest of foes with a look, turning them into immobilized stone statues. Horrifyingly, the basilisk’s petrified prey remain aware of their fate and surroundings, trapping them in an unending nightmare. Many Environments. One of the most adaptable predators, basilisks can be found in nearly any environ- ment, but they prefer damp caves. Over time, their tough scales take on the color of their surroundings, allowing the bulky creatures to blend in better. Raising Young. Basilisks typically live in mated pairs and raise several younglings. Adults prefer to subsist on berries, fish, fowl, and carrion, resorting to eating their petrified victims only when starving. On the other hand, basilisk younglings can only eat petrified victims, and fami- lies of basilisk have been known to travel far from their nest to populated areas in search of prey for their babies. Dangerous Servitors. Crime lords and overminds seek basilisk eggs to raise and train as bodyguards and pets. Training is dangerous, and many handlers (and their unscrupulous colleagues) find themselves turned to stone as the basilisk escapes and runs amok. Some creatures keep basilisks not for their terrifying abilities, but for their immunity to petrification. Medusas, largely due to their own limited options for companionship, commonly keep basilisks as pets. Both parties benefit from this symbiotic relationship, as the medusa feeds their own victims to the basilisk and their younglings. Alchemical Properties. Alchemists have discovered that after a basilisk eats petrified flesh, the basilisk’s gullet produces an oil that can be used to restore a petrified vic- tim. Unsavory alchemists pay good money to those willing to steal a basilisk youngling from their nest. Actions Signature Attack (Bite). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB piercing damage. 1st Level: Poison Spittle (2 Ferocity). The basilisk makes a signature attack. On a hit, the attack deals an extra PB damage, and a different creature the basilisk chooses within 5 feet of them takes PB poison damage. 3rd Level: Poison Gaze (5 Ferocity). The basilisk chooses up to three creatures they can see within 15 feet of them. Each creature must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the basilisk’s next turn. 5th Level: Lesser Petrifying Eye Beams (8 Ferocity). The basilisk targets one creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Constitu- tion saving throw or be restrained as they magically begin to turn to stone. A creature restrained in this way must repeat the saving throw at the end of their turn. On a successful save, the effect ends. On a failed save, the creature is petrified for 1 hour or until freed by a cure ailment power, lesser restoration spell, or similar supernatural effect. Reactions Heavy Glare. When a creature who can see the basilisk is hit by an attack by the basilisk’s caregiver, the basilisk forces that creature to make a DC 10 plus PB Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target can’t make opportunity attacks and has their speed reduced by 10 feet until the start of their next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

