# Battle Balloon

**description**: Through the winter clouds that surround the castle on this desolate hill, you see a shape emerge. Something so gigantic, you can’t believe it can actually fly. Airships are relatively rare in Acquisitions Incorporated, which is thought to hold no more than five in its fleet. But the unparalleled usefulness of these craft in commerce—and in combat—makes the company-standard battle balloon a much-coveted upgrade for any franchise. Origins and Operations. Professional secrecy and aggressive marketing make it unclear where the airship originated. Some say battle balloons were an original design created by the Heuristic Arcane Research and Development department of Acquisitions Incorporated. But the wizards of Halruaa developed similar skyships in ages past, and the Cult of the Dragon has been seen with flying ships of its own. Still, among the small number of factions and organizations known to possess or build airships, Acquisitions Incorporated might be the best known for its high-profile aerial escapades. It’s certain that neither the mages of Halruaa nor the members of the Cult of the Dragon ever crewed a battle balloon with keg robots, or used one to squash a tyrannosaurus flat. Flying Battle Vehicle. The standard design of an Acquisitions Incorporated-grade airship features an enormous balloon covered in a rope net. Trailing lines connect the balloon to the vessel of metal and wood suspended below. In the center of the deck, directly below the balloon, sits a large magic furnace, whose formidable lifting power is rumored to involve trapped elementals. The airship’s captain controls the arcane furnace and directs forward thrust by way of a propeller located at the back of the ship, helming the craft with a wheel positioned in the bow. Metal runners below the ship allow a battle balloon to land on the ground. Options and Armaments. Each franchise or organization customizes the offensive capability of its airships, but most battle balloons feature multiple harpoon guns, perfect for fighting and snaring aerial threats. Battle balloons that see a lot of combat are typically well stocked with other ranged weapons and polearms for ship-to-ship and crew-to-crew fighting. Whether privately financed or loaned out by Head Office under extraordinarily cautious terms, battle balloons can be customized with unique equipment—different siege weapons, lifting and cargo gear, and so forth—to make each airship unique. However, the most potent weapon featured on most Acquisitions Incorporated battle balloons is the green flame arbalester, a massive ballista whose bolts pulse with arcane power and detonate with formidable explosive force wherever they hit. Mobile Franchise Headquarters. A battle balloon is perhaps the most sought-after of the mobile headquarters options available to Acquisitions Incorporated franchises. The versatility of an airship allows for the rapid shipping of goods, mercenaries, and loot. Such a vessel also allows a quick escape from sticky developments and deals gone bad. Vehicle Rules Battle balloons and mechanical beholders are vehicles, and as such, they have special rules associated with them. Most pertinently, a vehicle has the six ability scores (Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma) and the corresponding modifiers. The Strength of a vehicle expresses its size and weight. Dexterity represents its ease of handling. A vehicle’s Constitution covers its durability and the quality of its construction. Vehicles usually have a score of 0 in Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. If a vehicle has a 0 in a score, it automatically fails any ability check or saving throw that uses that score. How a vehicle is crewed and what actions it can take on its turn are described in the stat block for the vehicle. The Hard Cloud The Hard Cloud is Acquisitions Incorporated’s company flagship, and as such, bears special note. The great battle balloon bristles with armaments, including a vicious dragon-slaying spear at the fore that has seen use more than once. The Hard Cloud is a veteran of numerous combat operations, and it has so far come out in one piece. Beyond the tales told of the vessel’s exploits, rumors abound regarding the wondrous vehicle. Is it powered by a bound efreeti, as some have said? Does the hold contain clones of every high-ranking member of Acquisitions Incorporated, including Omin Dran himself? Does the mess, in fact, employ a terrifying ghostly chef? The answers lie below decks, where few have had the opportunity to learn the truth.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: vehicle (80 ft. x 20 ft.)
- Expansion: 4048

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Acquisitions Incorporated

