# Battle Snail

**description**: This gigantic snail is native to the Feyrealm only. Its body is covered in a metallic shell where it can withdraw with blinding speed. It is a powerful predator that disables its prey by spraying it with a slimy spray that prevents it from fleeing. Battle Snail Upgrades Crafting. It requires one creature 1 hour per 5 gold pieces of resources to craft the appropriate item, requiring the necessary crafting proficiencies and tools. On the DM’s discretion, some upgrades can be broken down into resources and reused when crafting new upgrades. Feeding. Some upgrades require specific feed and Wisdom (Medicine) skill checks to be applied regularly to the battle snail. These treatments can slightly modify the biology of the battle snail. Upgrade Proficiencies Resources/Cost Ability Chain Mail Barding Smith’s tools 225 gp of materials AC 16 Splint Mail Barding Smith’s tools 600 gp of materials AC 17 Plate Barding Smith’s tools 4,500 gp of materials AC 18 Saddle Leatherworker’s tools 80 gp of materials Able to seat 1-2 medium creatures Battle Platform Carpenter’s tools 120 gp of materials Able to seat 1-4 medium creatures Howdah Carpenter’s tools 360 gp of materials Requires Battle Platform upgrade. Able to seat 1-4 medium creatures, provides half cover. Spiked Chains Carpenter’s, Leatherworker’s, or Smith’s tools 100 gp of materials Deals 1d6 piercing damage if a creature attempts to climb the battlesnail or attack if with a natural weapon. Armor Spikes Carpenter’s, Leatherworker’s, or Smith’s tools 250 gp of materials Deals 2d6 piercing damage if a creature attempts to climb the battlesnail or attack if with a natural weapon Ballista Turrets Carpenter’s, Smith’s and Tinker’s tools 500 gp of materials Requires Battle Platform upgrade. Heavy Ballista. A heavy ballista is a large object that has AC 17, 75 hit points, damage immunity to poison, psychic damage. It is a ranged weapon that fires heavy bolts with a range of 150/600 ft. that deal 22 (5d8) piercing damage. It takes one action to load the weapon, one action to aim it, and one action to fire it. A heavy ballista can be aimed and fired in the same round if two creatures perform these two actions at the same time. Harpoon Bolt Carpenter’s, Smith’s and Tinker’s tools 750 gp of materials Requires Ballista Turrets upgrade. Harpoon. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: Reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (5d8) piercing damage. If the target is a huge or smaller creature, it must succeed on a Strength contest or be pulled up to 20 feet toward the ballista. Incinerating Bolt Alchemist’s tools 1,250 gp of materials Requires Ballista Turrets upgrade. On a hit, the target takes 1d4 fire damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature can end this damage by using its action to make a DC 10 Dexterity check to extinguish the flames. Radula Spear DC 15 Medicine 10 gp of raw materials. Must succeed on the Wisdom (Medicine) skill check to upkeep the effect for one day. The battle snail’s radula hardens to a sharp point. Add 1d10 piercing damage to the battle snail’s damage on a bite attack. Caustic Slime DC 17 Medicine 10 gp of raw materials. Must succeed on the Wisdom (Medicine) skill check to upkeep the effect for one day. The battle snail’s slime becomes acidic. On a failed save against the Slippery Slime Spray attack of the battle snail, targets take 10 (3d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Acidic Slime DC 20 Medicine 20 gp of raw materials. Must succeed on the Wisdom (Medicine) skill check to upkeep the effect for one day. Requires Caustic Slime upgrade. The battle snail’s slime becomes more acidic. On a failed save against the Slippery Slime Spray attack of the battle snail, targets take 20 (6d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Slippery Slime DC 20 Medicine 20 gp of raw materials. Must succeed on the Wisdom (Medicine) skill check to upkeep the effect for one day. The battle snail’s Slippery Slime becomes more slippery. Each creature in that cone must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 17604
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Elderbrain

**book**: Crown of the Oathbreaker Compendium

