# Bavlorna Blightstraw

**description**: Younger than Skabatha and older than Endelyn, Bavlorna is called Slack-jawed Lorna because her wide mouth is prone to hang agape. Flies flit in and out of it. She is the hag of the present, the here and now, the moment to moment. Those desperate individuals who seek her out do so to find a remedy for a nagging problem or anxiety. Though she despises unannounced visitors, a tragic tale of woe and misery puts her in a bargaining mood. If these visitors enter into an agreement with Bavlorna, she’ll use her powers to resolve their pressing problem in exchange for something of use to her. Alignment. Neutral evil. Personality Trait. “I detest chores and would rather have other creatures do them for me.” Ideal. “I don’t care about the past or the future. I live in the present. What I do now, this very moment, is all that matters.” Bond. “I’m safe in my cottage. Why should I leave it when I can make others come to me?” Flaw. “Watching someone run widdershins makes me sneeze uncontrollably.” Bavlorna’s Appearance Bavlorna has a toad-like face with a mouth that magically widens and elongates, enabling her to swallow creatures whole. Her bulging eyes move independently, constantly scanning her surroundings. Stained and moldering patchwork garments hide much of the leathery, mummified flesh that stretches over Bavlorna’s compact frame and extraordinarily long, spindly limbs. She must submerge herself in a briny concoction for an hour each day, or her body will dry out until it locks up in a kind of living rictus, and she remains that way until submerged. As the hours pass between each immersion, her movements become more ponderous and her skin audibly cracks as she moves. Bavlorna lives like a hermit. She is frazzled, impatient, paranoid, and vindictive, lashing out at anyone she thinks is trying to deprive her of the treasures she has tucked away in her cottage. She trusts no one, so she creates tiny duplicates of herself, called lornlings, to serve as her attendants. When she travels away from her lair, she does so on her bobbing lily pad , accompanied by lornlings, which use the quickling stat block. Bavlorna’s Weakness Bavlorna is allergic to the sight of creatures running counterclockwise in circles, a motion known as “running widdershins.” Creatures that run widdershins within 10 feet of Bavlorna cause her to lapse into a fit of sneezing. See the stat block for more details. Traits Amphibious. Bavlorna can breathe air and water. Boon of Immortality. Bavlorna is immune to any effect that would age her, and she can’t die from old age. Widdershins Allergy. If a creature within 10 feet of Bavlorna uses at least 10 feet of movement to run in place counterclockwise, Bavlorna is overcome by a fit of sneezing and can’t cast spells until the end of her next turn. In addition, any creature Bavlorna has swallowed is immediately expelled and falls prone in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of her. Actions Multiattack. Bavlorna makes one Bite attack and one Withering Ray attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16) if it is a Medium or smaller creature. Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained, and Bavlorna can’t use her Bite attack on another target. Withering Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit : 17 (4d6 + 3) necrotic damage. Create Lornlings (Recharge 5–6). Bavlorna creates one or two 1-foot-tall duplicates of herself, called lornlings (use the quickling stat block in appendix C). Each lornling appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of Bavlorna, obeys her commands, and takes its turn immediately after hers. A lornling lasts for 1 hour, until it or Bavlorna dies, or until Bavlorna dismisses it as an action. Bavlorna can have no more than eight lornlings in existence at a time. Spellcasting. Bavlorna casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: detect magic 2/day each: create food and water, polymorph, remove curse 1/day: plane shift (self only) Bonus Actions Swallow. Bavlorna swallows a Small or smaller creature she is grappling, ending the grapple on it. The swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside Bavlorna, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns. If the swallowed creature is one of Bavlorna’s lornlings, Bavlorna gains all the lornling’s memories when the acid damage reduces it to 0 hit points. Bavlorna can have only one creature swallowed at a time. If Bavlorna dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained and can escape from the corpse using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone. Hourglass Coven The Hourglass Coven is a group of three hags, each one bound to an aspect of time: one reflects the past, another reflects the present, and the third reflects the future. These hags are utter wickedness distilled into corporeal forms, driven by a lust for secrets that can be used to manipulate their prey. Skabatha Nightshade, Bavlorna Blightstraw, and Endelyn Moongrave are daughters of Baba Yaga. The three became wild with jealousy when Iggwilv, Baba Yaga’s adopted daughter, surpassed them in power and carved out a Feywild domain for herself in the guise of an archfey named Zybilna. The hags wormed their way into Iggwilv’s good graces, biding their time until they could wrest the domain from her clutches. They waited until Iggwilv was lured away on an important matter to imbue Iggwilv’s Cauldron with the ability to freeze time. When their sister returned, the hags used this power to trap Iggwilv and her court in temporal stasis. The hags then carved up Iggwilv’s domain, splitting it between them. The sisters couldn’t agree on which of them should keep Iggwilv’s Cauldron , so they left it in Iggwilv’s palace and hired some unscrupulous mercenaries to watch over it. The hags loathe each other’s company, but one hag will occasionally visit another to plot against the third sister, creating a vicious circle in which Bavlorna and Endelyn plot against Skabatha, Endelyn and Skabatha conspire against Bavlorna, and Skabatha and Bavlorna bedevil Endelyn. Nothing much ever comes of these petty plots and squabbles, however. Shared Spells of the Hourglass Coven On the rare occasions when all three hags of the Hourglass Coven are within 30 feet of one another, any one of them can use an action to cast one of the following spells, requiring no material components (spell save DC 14): detect thoughts, dispel magic, finger of death, glibness, locate creature, mass suggestion . Once a spell from this list has been cast, no member of the coven can cast that shared spell again until the next dawn, when the coven regains all of its shared spells.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (hag)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 11857
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Wild Beyond the Witchlight

