# Bearfolk Druid

**description**: A golden-furred bearfolk dressed in a beaded poncho slashes the air before her with a hefty wooden scepter. As the rod cuts through the air, a curtain of darkness is burned away by the trailing blue light. Bearfolk druids provide frontline defense against the corrupting influence of shadow. Traits Grounded Nature. Bearfolk who pursue druidic training understand the state of balance inherent in all natural creatures. Such keen inner senses provide these druids with hyperawareness of whether or not the taint of unnatural shadow magic has influenced a creature, and their insight makes these druids more resistant to any corrupting influences. Moonlit Leaders. While bearfolk druids are common throughout all bearfolk communities in the mortal world, the highest concentration is in the Shadow Realm. Each day in the Moonlit Glades they push back against the slow, insidious influences of shadow corruption. These druids are critical to the survival of such bearfolk communities. Glowing Heart. The bearfolk has advantage on saving throws made to resist being frightened and to resist corruption effects, such as from shadow or the void. Keen Smell. The bearfolk has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Actions Multiattack. The bearfolk makes one Bite attack and one Quarterstaff attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage or 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage if used with two hands. Repel Corruption (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The bearfolk can speak words of power that repel evil creatures or creatures corrupted by shadow. Each evil-aligned or shadow-corrupted creature within 30 feet of the bearfolk must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the bearfolk for 1 minute. A creature affected in this way must spend its turns trying to move as far away from the bearfolk as it can and can't willingly move closer to the source of its fear. It also can't take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action. Spellcasting. The bearfolk casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: druidcraft , guidance , produce flame 2/day each: barkskin , cure wounds , faerie fire , speak with animals 1/day each: call lightning , dispel magic , entangle , moonbeam Bonus Actions Change Shape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The bearfolk magically transforms into a beast (with a challenge rating of 2 or less), remaining in that form for up to 4 hours, or back into their true form. Their weapon attacks while in beast form are magical. Otherwise, other than size, their statistics are the same in each form. They can speak and cast spells while in beast form. Any equipment they are wearing or carrying in Humanoid form melds into the beast form. They can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of their equipment. They revert to their Humanoid form if they die. Frenzy (1/Rest). The bearfolk can trigger a berserk frenzy that lasts 1 minute. While in the frenzy, they gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks and have advantage on attack rolls. Attack rolls made against the bearfolk while they are frenzied have advantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Bearfolk)
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

