# Befana (Malevolence I)

**description**: "Better a befana in the house than a guard at the door" - Popular Saying- Befane are the hideous hags of Brancalonia: supernatural sorcerers, creatures from Inferno who trample the world and are probably the origin of witchcraft as it is known in the Kingdom. They are also called crones and evil witches, and known by a series of local names: strias, striccas, bordes, janaras, mashaires, and so on... According to some, befane are ancient accursed creatures of unnatural origin, beings from Inferno permitted to live under the stars, or cannibal monsters similar to Marguttes; instead, for others they are practitioners of witchcraft who over time have been corrupted to the core by dark powers, and for this reason condemned to walk the world forever, accumulating victims upon victims. Even if the best-known among them appear as women, there is no shortage of heinous magicians and evil wizards, and in Torrigiana there are also numerous male befani. Befane are almost always cruel and gruesome hags dressed as peasants or witches of the woods. Occasionally, their appearance, their age, and even their personality can be totally different: beautiful ladies of the forest, creepy little girls with immense powers, and even kind old ladies could be neutral or good befane who have become independent or have disowned the dark powers that generated them. Whatever the truth is, while befane share a number of common traits, each one of them is a creature in itself, with distinct powers, malevolence, background, habits, and weaknesses. Malevolence Malevolence indicates the befana's level of power. The greater the Malevolence, the greater the creature's unique resistance, power, and abilities. For each Malevolence level, the befana gains a unique power, to be chosen from the befana's list of powers. Additionally, the befana adds the Malevolence level to its saving throw DC, attack rolls, and skill checks. Malevolence Level Number of Powers Basic Stats Change Challenge 1 1 Basic Stat 4 (1,100 XP) 2 2 Hit Points 105 (14d8+42), Damage Resistances, Innate Spellcasting 6 (2,300 XP) 3 3 Hit Points 136 (17d8+64), Damage Resitances, Innate Spellcasting, Legendary Actions, Multiattack (2) 9 (5,000 XP) The Befana’s Lair Typical befanas' lairs are: hovels and shacks in the woods which can be way much larger than they look on the outside, entire taverns, the hollow of a huge tree, a sailing ship's cabin, huts on poles or treehouses, a steaming cavern, a tangle of roots among the trees of a swamp, a beautiful house in the city, a tower's top floor. Lair actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the befana takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the befana can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: The befana magically calls to her a swarm of insects and a swarm of rats that act as her allies and obey her commands. The swarms remain for 1 hour, until the befana dies, or until the befana dismisses them as a bonus action. The befana casts fog cloud (no concentration required). The befana casts sleep (no concentration required), casting the spell as using a slot that is of one higher level than the spell for each Malevolence level (saving throw DC 12 + Malevolence level). Regional effects The region surrounding a befana's lair is altered by the creature's unnatural presence, which generates one or more of the following effects: Beer spoils, wine turns to vinegar, milk curdles, food quickly rots, and harvests are scarce. Within 500 feet of the lair, the ground is full of brambles, nettles, and poisonous plants. The area around the lair is shrouded by a thin greenish mist that gives off a sweet stench. If the befana is destroyed, these effects end after 2d6 days. "The Befanas come at night Children have a look of fright In their sack broken bones What a gift from those crones..." - Nursery Rhyme- Traits Innate Spellcasting. The befana's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +1 per Malevolence level; +4, +1 per Malevolence level to hit with spell attacks). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: Malevolence 1 At will: bane, chill touch, detect magic 2/day each: magic missile, sleep, hideous laughter Mimicry. The befana can mimic animal sounds and humanoid voices. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 14 (+1 per Malevolence level) Wisdom (Insight) check. Horrific Appearance. Any humanoid that starts its turn within 30 feet of the befana and can see the befana's true form must make a DC 12 (+1 per Malevolence level) Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute. Actions Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : (2d8+3) slashing damage. Illusory Appearance. The befana covers herself and anything she is wearing or carrying with a magical illusion that makes her look like another creature of her general size and humanoid shape. The illusion ends if the befana takes a bonus action to end it or if she dies. The changes wrought by this effect fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, the befana could appear to have smooth skin, but someone touching her would feel her rough flesh. Otherwise, a creature must take an action to visually inspect the illusion and succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the befana is disguised. Unique Powers (1 per Malevolence Level) Create Effigy*. If the befana manages to get a lock of hair (or something similar) from a creature, she can create a wax figurine that represents its appearance. Through a 1-hour ritual, the befana creates a bond between the creature and the effigy, and from this moment she can perform the following actions: As an action, the Befana manipulates the effigy, forcing the creature connected to it to perform an action of its choice. As a bonus action, the befana crushes the effigy, dealing 2d4 bludgeoning damage per Malevolence level, to the creature connected to it. As an action the befana plunges a pin or a dagger into the effigy, dealing 1d6 piercing damage per Malevolence level to the creature connected to it, which must succeed on a DC 12 (+1 per Malevolence level) Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target creature falls prone or loses an object held in its hand (the befana's choice). These actions can be taken only if the creature connected to the effigy is within 100 ft of the befana and the befana can see it. Flying Broom*. The Befana carries a broom of flying . Ball of Yarn (Recharge 5-6)*. Ranged Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 30/60 ft., a creature. Hit: The target is held by the yarn of the ball. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 12 Strength check (+1 per Malevolence level) bursting the yarn on a success. The yarn can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; hp 15; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage). Change Shape*. The befana magically polymorphs into a Small or Medium female humanoid, or back into her true form. Her statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. She reverts to her true form if she dies. Death Glare*. The befana targets one frightened creature she can see within 30 feet of her. If the target can see the befana, it must succeed on a DC 12 (+1 per Malevolence level) Wisdom saving throw against this magic or drop to 0 hit points. Invisible Passage*. The befana magically turns invisible until she attacks or casts a spell, or until her concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). While invisible, she leaves no physical evidence of her passage, so she can be tracked only by magic. Any equipment she wears or carries is invisible with her. Nightmare Haunting (1/Day)*. While on the Ethereal Plane, the befana magically touches a sleeping humanoid. A protection from evil and good spell cast on the target prevents this contact, as does a magic circle. As long as the contact persists, the target has dreadful visions. If these visions last for at least 1 hour, the target gains no benefit from its rest, and its hit point maximum is reduced by 5 (1d10). If this effect reduces the target's hit point maximum to 0, the target dies. The reduction to the target's hit point maximum lasts until removed by the greater restoration spell or similar magic.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 11925
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

