# Belashyrra

**description**: Belashyrra is the Lord of Eyes, also known to its cultists as the All-Seer or the Glorious Eye. Stories told of Belashyrra in the Shadow Marches whisper that the Lord of Eyes can see every evil deed a person commits, and that those touched by this daelkyr suffer terrible hallucinations that inevitably drive them to violence or death. Dreadful Visions. The madness of Belashyrra is tied to sight: images that can’t be unseen, horrific hallucinations, the fear of blindness and of being watched—or realizing that something else is using your eyes. Belashyrra can force its victims to question whether what they perceive is real, or can fill their world with such terrors that they willingly blind themselves to escape. Belashyrra sees mortals as raw materials to be exploited or insects to be exterminated. However, the Lord of Eyes has been known to take an interest in specific mortals. Belashyrra’s warlocks serve as its envoys in the world and are often directed to seek out creatures and sites that the daelkyr wishes to see through their eyes. Belashyrra’s Cults. The Lord of Eyes has followers across Khorvaire, and its cults are typically driven by mad visions. Devoted cultists can grow eyes in unusual locations, and might have darkvision or other supernatural abilities when they view the world through those eyes. Beholderkin often advise or lead Belashyrra’s cults, and cultists typically treat these aberrations as divine beings. Belashyrra’s Lair Belashyrra makes its lair in the Citadel of Lidless Eyes deep in Khyber, a site that appears to have been molded from molten stone, chitin, and flesh. Across its warped and liquid expanses, thousands of eyes of every size and shape peer into the endless darkness. Beholders, dolgrims, and stranger aberrations dwell within the halls of the citadel, which is one of the few places where such creatures are willing to live side by side. Some beholderkin serve Belashyrra as guards and agents, while others spend their lives in deep meditation, pursuing inner visions known only to the Lord of Eyes. It’s rumored that anyone who sits on the citadel’s throne can see through the eyes of any sentient creature on Eberron or in Khyber. If encountered in its lair, Belashyrra has a challenge rating of 23 (50,000 XP). Lair Actions. While within the Citadel of Lidless Eyes, Belashyrra can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Belashyrra can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; it can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: An eye opens on a solid surface within 60 feet of Belashyrra. One random eye ray of Belashyrra’s shoots from that eye at a target of Belashyrra’s choice that it can see. The eye then closes and disappears. Belashyrra creates a wave of madness. Each creature it can see within its lair must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 minute. While charmed in this way, a creature must use its action at the start of its turn before moving to make a melee attack against another creature of Belashyrra’s choice within reach. If there are no creatures within reach, the charmed creature can act normally for that turn. A charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Belashyrra taps into the eyesight of creatures in its lair and alters their perception. Each creature of Belashyrra’s choice in the lair must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the affected creature perceives objects and creatures a short distance from their actual locations, imposing disadvantage on the creature’s attack rolls against those targets. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this lair action for the next 24 hours. Regional Effects. Belashyrra’s lair is known to touch remote areas of the Shadow Marches and caverns below Xen’drik. A region containing a passage to Belashyrra’s lair is warped by its magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Creatures within 1 mile of the passage sometimes feel as if they’re being watched. Beasts that live within 5 miles of the passage undergo magical transmutation, growing eyes or eyestalks that Belashyrra can see through. A humanoid who spends at least 1 hour within 1 mile of the passage must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or descend into a type of madness (see “Madness of Belashyrra” below). A creature that succeeds on this saving throw can’t be affected by this regional effect again for 24 hours. If Belashyrra dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Madness of Belashyrra If a creature goes mad in Belashyrra’s lair or while it can see the daelkyr, it gains a form of indefinite madness. Roll on the Madness of Belashyrra table to determine the nature of this madness, which takes the form of a character flaw that lasts until cured. Chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide has more information on madness. Madness of Belashyrra d6 Flaw (lasts until cured) 1 “I constantly see shapes moving in the shadows.” 2 “I perceive certain types of people—vocations or entire societies—as hideous monsters.” 3 “Someone is watching everything I do.” 4 “When I close my eyes, I see my past misdeeds.” 5 “I don’t trust my sight. I have no idea what’s real and what’s a hallucination.” 6 “Something watches the world through my eyes. To thwart them, I keep my eyes closed or covered.”

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 4480
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Eberron - Rising from the Last War

