# Berberoka

**description**: Bellowing in rage, the moss and plant-covered giant absorbs an entire pond, growing as it spits a powerful jet of water. This giant is native to wetlands, acting as a protector of the wild areas in which it lives. Normally peaceable and nonthreatening, the berberoka is quick to attack those that threaten its domain. Marsh Guardian. Berberoka guard swamps, fens, and marshes from any who disrupt the natural balance. Travelers, hunters, and other interlopers are observed as they pass through, but most are left unmolested. The berberoka reserves its wrath for despoilers of the marshlands: those who hunt or fish all the wildlife, who drain swampland for farming, and especially those who poison the water or damage the local plants and animals. These quickly incur the berberoka's wrath. Foul Weather Friend. A berberoka is a solitary creature, preferring to remain alone in its home, but when its local environs are threatened, it is often willing to ally with other inhabitants against outside threats. Druids are happy to have a berberoka in the neighborhood, and both seek each other out when the danger proves too much for the giant or the druids alone. Amphibious. The berberoka can breathe air and water. Aqueous Regeneration. If the berberoka starts its turn in contact with a body of water large enough to submerge at least half of its body, it regains 10 hp if it has at least 1 hit point. Swamp Camouflage. The berberoka has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in marshland or swamp terrain. Swamp Stalker. The berberoka leaves behind no tracks or other traces of its passage when it moves through marshland or swamp terrain. Actions Multiattack. The berberoka makes three Slam attacks or two Muck-Coated Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Muck-Coated Slam (Saturated Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d12 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or its speed is reduced by 10 feet as mud and muck coat the target. A creature, including the target, can take an action to clean off the mud and muck. Water Jet (Saturated Only, Recharge 4-6). The berberoka releases all absorbed water as a powerful jet in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 40 (9d8) bludgeoning damage and is pushed up to 15 feet away from the berberoka and knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. After using Water Jet, the berberoka is no longer saturated. Bonus Actions Saturated Expansion. While in contact with a body of water, the berberoka absorbs water that is a cube up to 10 feet on a side, and it becomes saturated as the water fills its body. While saturated, the berberoka increases in size, along with anything it is wearing or carrying, becoming Huge, and it has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. If the berberoka lacks the room to become Huge, it attains the maximum size possible in the space available. Ground exposed by the absorbed water becomes difficult terrain.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

