# Black Puddling

**description**: “Impeccable posture… rippling muscles… a winning, can-do attitude… A black puddling is only ever as good as that which it emulates. And this one chose very wisely." — Heliana, Immodest Type: Ooze Creature Component: Any assimilooze Bonus Tamer Improvement: Growth I and +2 Hit Dice Extracted from the remains of assimiloozes, these curious creatures are subjected to intricate biomantic procedures to limit their dangerous adaptive powers. As a side effect of the time spent around biomancers, they develop a strong fascination with humanoids, especially adventurers. Black puddlings can often be seen mimicking interesting characters or attempting to replicate particularly impressive feats of wit or strength, with… varying degrees of success. If any of the black puddling’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the black puddling’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the black puddling’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the black puddling the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Growth I Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion) The black puddling’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the bludgeoning damage die of its Slam attack increases to a d6 . Armour Thief I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) Once on each of the black puddling’s turns, when it hits a creature made of metal or wearing nonmagical metal armour, it can attempt to steal some of that armour. The creature must make a Strength saving throw . On a failed save, if it’s wearing nonmagical metal armour, the armour takes a permanent -1 penalty to the AC it offers, or, if the target is made of metal, it takes a -1 penalty to AC until it finishes a long rest. Either way, the black puddling gains a cumulative +1 bonus to its AC, which lasts until its tamer finishes a long rest, at which point the stolen armour corrodes. Once a creature has made a saving throw against this feature, it automatically succeeds on them for the next 24 hours. This feature can’t cause the black puddling’s AC to exceed 10 + the maximum value of its Hit Die. Assimilate I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (10 minutes) Over the course of 10 minutes , the black puddling can study the corpse of a creature within its reach that has been dead for less than 24 hours, adapting itself to copy some of its traits. It gains one of the following benefits (tamer’s choice): It learns up to two languages the creature knew and can speak them. It gains up to two of the creature’s skill proficiencies. It gains resistance to a damage type the creature had resistance or immunity to. It gains one of the creature’s special senses, with the same range, to a maximum of 30 feet . It gains one of the creature’s speeds, growing appropriate limbs to use it (such as wings or flippers). This speed can’t exceed the black puddling’s walking speed. The black puddling can only have one benefit at a time, and if it would gain another, the first one is lost. Once the black puddling has studied a corpse in this way, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. The same corpse can’t be studied twice. The black puddling loses all benefits when its tamer finishes a long rest. Growth II Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type: Passive (companion) The black puddling’s size increases to Medium, its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the bludgeoning damage die of its Slam attack increases to a d8 . Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the black puddling can make two Slam attacks. Acidic Burst Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) Whenever a creature within 5 feet of the black puddling hits it with a melee attack, that creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 acid damage. Once this feature has triggered, it can’t do so again until the start of the black puddling’s next turn. Armour Thief II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Armour Thief I Type: Passive (companion) The penalty to AC increases to -2 and the bonus to AC increases to +2 each time the black puddling successfully steals another creature’s armour. Assimilate II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Assimilate I Type: Passive (companion) Studying a corpse only takes 1 minute instead of 10. The black puddling can have up to two benefits at the same time. If it gains another, its tamer chooses which one it replaces. Growth III Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Growth II Type: Passive (companion) The black puddling’s size increases to Large, its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the bludgeoning damage die of its Slam attack increases to a d10 . Iron Shell Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action) While the black puddling is wearing armour or has a bonus to AC from the Armour Thief feature, it can use a bonus action to retreat fully into its armour, gaining an additional +5 bonus to AC which lasts until it moves, or takes an action, bonus action, or reaction. Assimilate III Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Assimilate II Type: Passive (companion) Studying a corpse only takes an action, instead of 1 minute, and there is no limit to the number of times the black puddling can do so. The black puddling can have up to three benefits at the same time. If it gains another, its tamer chooses which one it replaces. When the black puddling would lose its benefits due to its tamer finishing a long rest, the tamer can choose one of them for the black puddling to keep.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: ooze
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 28918
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

