# Black Gauntlet of Bane

**description**: Bane and His Followers Bane is a god of tyranny, and both he and his worshipers seek to rule the world. Bane grants power to those who strive to rule with an iron fist. By imposing order on the world, Bane’s followers ensure that those who are clever, strong, and ambitious rise to the top while the weak languish at the bottom. Regardless of the form he takes, Bane is always marked by his jet-black right hand. He usually wears a gauntlet or glove over this hand to conceal his identity, revealing it only when the time has come to display his true power. He is always well-dressed, donning the fine clothing of a noble or wearing the armor and gear of a successful mercenary general. His preferred weapon is a mace. Bane overpowers those who display any weakness, bullying them into submission or crushing them with his physical and magical power. His charisma is such that he can sway the mighty to pledge their loyalty to him in return for power over others. He finds the hunger for power that exists in every mortal heart and awakens it with carefully crafted promises and flattery. He is the mastermind of the Dead Three, the one whose ambitions drive the group’s efforts. Bane’s devoted followers are warriors who seek to rule through martial strength and intimidation, cruel tyrants who use threats and gifts as needed to ensure loyalty. They enslave those too weak to resist them and shower the strong with gifts and promises of power to turn them into loyal vassals. Cruel Tyrants. Whenever Bane’s followers gain power, they institute draconian measures to ensure that their rule is unquestioned. They stamp out all opposition while richly rewarding those who swear fealty. Warrior Cult. Cultists of Bane are warriors who wear heavy armor and wield maces, swords, spears, and crossbows. They paint the right gauntlet of their armor black in honor of their patron. Bane’s clerics wield black maces with heads shaped to look like a closed fist. Cult Ranks. Bane’s cultists operate according to strict military hierarchies. The lowest rank consists of the fists of Bane, foot soldiers who obey all orders without hesitation. They are led by iron consuls, cunning field officers who excel at coordinating the fists in combat. The black gauntlets are the priests who command the consuls. Cultists of the Dead Three The Dead Three are evil adventurers named Bane, Bhaal, and Myrkul who long ago quested to become gods. They succeeded but grew even more ambitious. They tried to seize the Tablets of Fate from the overgod Ao and use them to rule over Faerûn and its gods. They failed and were slain during the Time of Troubles. Since then, a variety of contingency plans they had in place allowed them to be reborn. While the Sundering saw the other gods of the Forgotten Realms withdraw their direct influence from the world, the Dead Three remained behind in mortal form as quasi-divine beings. While their power has diminished, they remain a formidable trio and play a malevolent role in influencing events on Faerûn. Traits Aura of Terror. When a hostile creature within 5 feet of the black gauntlet makes an attack roll or a saving throw, it has disadvantage on the roll. Creatures that are immune to the frightened condition are immune to this trait. Spellcasting. The black gauntlet is a 5th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): guidance, sacred flame, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): bane, bless, cure wounds, guiding bolt (see “Actions” below) 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, hold person, silence 3rd level (2 slots): sending, spirit guardians Tactical Discipline. The black gauntlet has advantage on all ability checks and saving throws made during combat. Actions Multiattack. The black gauntlet makes two attacks with its mace. Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. Guiding Bolt (1st-Level Spell; Requires a Spell Slot). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (4d6) radiant damage, and the next attack roll made against the target before the end of the black gauntlet’s next turn has advantage. If the black gauntlet casts this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28744
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Baldur's Gate - Descent into Avernus

