# Black Slaad

**description**: The final state of the slaadi is the dreaded black slaad, which is what a white slaad evolves into if it was swallowed by the entropic energies of the Abyss or transformed by Ygorl the Lord of Entropy itself. The slaad becomes a powerful being of chaos that has several deadly abilities. A Black Slaad's Lair A black slaad's lair is usually a maze-like multilevel set of caverns or ruins, often defying laws of gravity. The black slaad normally places its lair in Limbo, but some have built lairs in the Abyss and in the Elemental Chaos. A black slaad encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 21 (33,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the black slaad takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the black slaad can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Each creature that is not a Construct or Undead within 30 feet of the black slaad must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The black slaad then regains a number of hit points equal to half the total damage taken by all affected creatures. The black slaad targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the black slaad's next turn. The black slaad summons a red slaad. The red slaad appears in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of the slaad and acts as its ally. The red slaad acts right after the black slaad on the same initiative count and fight until it is destroyed. It remains for 1 hour, until it or the black slaad dies, or until the black slaad dismisses it as an action. Regional Effects The region containing a black slaad’s lair is warped by the black slaad’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Random areas of up to 50 feet in diameter within 1 mile of the lair operate as if under a permanent reverse gravity spell. Random bursts of elemental energy scour the land within 6 miles of the black slaad’s lair. At the end of each hour spent in the area, creatures must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage (determined randomly). Rocky fissures within 1 mile of the black slaad’s lair form portals to Limbo, allowing red and blue slaads into the world to dwell nearby. If the black slaad dies, the slaads disappear immediately, and the other effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Magic Resistance. The slaad has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The slaad's weapon attacks are magical. Regeneration. The slaad regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Actions Multiattack. The slaad makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) slashing damage and must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the slaad's next turn. Bite (Slaad Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points until the start of the slaad's next turn. Claw (Slaad Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. Chaos Spittle . Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: Roll 1d8 to determine what effect happens: The target takes 35 (10d6) fire damage. The target takes 35 (10d6) acid damage. The target takes 35 (10d6) lightning damage. The target takes 35 (10d6) poison damage. The target takes 35 (10d6) cold damage. The target is restrained. lt must then make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the effect ends. If it fails its save three times, it permanently turns to stone and is subjected to the petrified condition. The successes and failures don't need to be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind. The target is blinded. lt must then make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw at the start of the slaad's next turn. A successful save ends the blindness. lf it fails that save, the creature is transported to another plane of existence of the DM's choosing and is no longer blinded. (Typically, a creature that is on a plane that isn't its home plane is banished home, while other creatures are usually cast into the Astral or Ethereal planes.) Two effects. Roll twice more, rerolling any 8s. Spellcasting. The slaad casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect magic, detect thoughts, invisibility (self only), mage hand, major image 2/day each: dispel magic, fear, fly, tongues 1/day each: circle of death, finger of death, plane shift, maddening darkness, power word kill Change Shape. The slaad transforms into a Small or Medium humanoid, or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the slaad is reduced to 0 hit points or uses a bonus action to end it. Legendary Actions The slaad can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The slaad regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The slaad makes a Claw attack. Chaos Spittle (Costs 2 Actions). The slaad makes a Chaos Spittle attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The slaad uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

