# Blackspawn Stalker

**description**: This nightmarish creature appears as a young black dragon whose body has mutated into that of a giant spider. It has lost its wings but has gained two spinneret tails, six arachnid limbs, and four pairs of eyes that glow a sickly yellow. The blackspawn stalker prefers to live in temperate swamps or dark, gloomy forests where they lay clutches of eggs in multiple locations to increase their chances of survival. Ambush Hunter. The blackspawn stalker is an expert trapper, spinning carefully-hidden webbings on the forest floor or the treetops to trap unsuspecting prey. It then spits caustic webbing at its target to pin them down before lunging at them for a bite and bludgeoning them with its tails. Dragonspawns The deity Tiamat continuously seeks to escape its infernal prison and return to the Prime Material Plane. To that end, it has empowered its most gifted followers to create the Dragonspawn from various beasts and monstrous eggs. These spawns of Tiamat have a sliver of Tiamats’ power and are born to spread chaos and destruction and help prepare for the Dragon Queen's return. Tiamat's Sentinels. Dragonspawn reach maturity in just a few years, never reaching sizes bigger than Large, and leave the nest to strike out on their own, preferring to stay in environments similar to those favored by their parents. They nest with other dragonspawn or even other races so long as they have the same objectives. They are normally found in the company of Tiamat's followers, such as the Cult of the Dragon and kobolds, often serving as guards. All dragonspawn are loyal to Tiamat’s cause and have adopted Tiamat’s temperament when it comes to dealing with other races, which is to say they look down on all non-Dragons and they hate good-aligned Dragons with a vengeance. Traits Spider Climb. The blackspawn stalker can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the blackspawn stalker knows the exact location of any creature in contact with the same web. Web Walker. The blackspawn stalker ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Slay Foe (1/Turn). The blackspawn stalker deals an extra 13 (3d8) damage with its weapon attack if it hits a creature that doesn't have all its hit points. Actions Multiattack. The blackspawn stalker makes one Bite attack and two Tail attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) acid damage and 4 (1d8) poison damage. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Acid Web Spray (Recharge 5–6). The blackspawn stalker emits noxious webbing in a line that is 30 feet long and 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 18 (4d8) acid damage and be restrained by webbing. A creature that starts its turn restrained takes 4 (1d8) acid damage. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 15 Strength check, escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 10, 5 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to acid, bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage. Bonus Actions Stealthy. The blackspawn stalker takes the Hide action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

