# Blestsessebe

**description**: A majestic antelope holds its head high. The golden, ridged horns forking from the top of its head catch the light and glow. As it leaps away, only a faint outline of its form remains visible. Found mostly in grasslands, blestsessebe travel anywhere, even to underground realms, to lead subjugated people to freedom. Foes to Tyrants. Blestsessebe seek independence for others from despotic regimes, which often leads them to the Material Plane where they find plenty of people seeking freedom from oppression. Blestsessebe try not to enact large-scale or flashy escapes, which may encourage tyrants to take more stringent measures. If a blestsessebe helps overthrow a dictator, it remains to work with the liberated subjects to ensure an even-handed successor government. Peaceable Runners. Blestsessebe use their incredible speed to escape foes, except when thwarting creatures oppressing others. When blestsessebe rescue escapees, they gift their speed to their wards and lead the creatures to safety. Once a blestsessebe has taken on this duty, it fights to protect those under its care, drawing the attention of pursuers and allowing its wards to escape. Friendly Rival to Cyonaxin. Blestsessebe and the cheetah-like cyonaxin (see) share similar goals, and the two celestials regularly work together. They often compete while carrying out missions, with the winner rescuing the most people, the most elderly, or the youngest person. The blestsessebe's more cautious nature and its reluctance to take unnecessary risks mean it typically loses these amicable competitions. When not carrying out missions of mercy, the celestials challenge each other to races that test their speed and endurance. Blur of Motion. When the blestsessebe moves at least 30 feet on its turn, ranged attack rolls against it have disadvantage until the start of its next turn. Freedom of Movement. The blestsessebe ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can't reduce its speed or cause it to be restrained. It can spend 5 feet of movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or being grappled. Magic Resistance. The blestsessebe has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Trampling Charge. If a blestsessebe moves at least 30 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a gore attack on the same turn, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the blestsessebe can make one hooves attack against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack. The blestsessebe makes one Gore attack and two Hooves attacks. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) radiant damage. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Distracting Glow (Recharge 6). The blestsessebe's horns flare brightly for a moment, distracting its enemies. Each hostile creature within 60 feet of the blestsessebe and that can see its horns must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be entranced by the blestsessebe until the start of the blestsessebe's next turn. An entranced creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures other than the blestsessebe. Hastening Stomp (Recharge 5-6). The blestsessebe rears and stomps, sending out a small, magical shockwave. For 1 minute, each friendly creature within 60 feet of the blestsessebe increases its speed by 10 feet and can use the Free Runner bonus action. Bonus Action Free Runner. The blestsessebe can take the Dash action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

