# Bloodthorn Druid

**description**: Devotees of the Bloodthorn Grove, these druids serve as its harvesters, seeking and providing sacrifices to keep it alive. They are utterly devoted to the Keeper of the Grove. Traits Boon of the Grim Harvest. The bloodthorn druid adds their Wisdom modifier to their AC as long as they are wearing light or no armor, and uses it in place of Strength for attack rolls and damage rolls made with sickles and scythes (included in stat block). Nature Walk. The bloodthorn druid ignores difficult terrain made of soil or plants, and can move through solid plant matter but not end their turn inside it. Sickle of the Reaper. Whenever the bloodthorn druid hits a creature with a melee attack, including melee spell attacks, the attack deals an additional 4 (1d8) necrotic damage and the bloodthorn druid gains a number of temporary hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt (included in stat block). Spellcasting. The bloodthorn druid is a 7th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with attacks). Actions Multiattack. The bloodthorn druid makes two Reaping Sickle attacks. Reaping Sickle. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: (1d6+3) slashing damage plus (1d8)necrotic damage. and the bloodthorn druid gains a number of temporary hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. Lacerate (2/Rest). The bloodthorn druid casts lacerate *. Melee Spell Attack: +5 to hit, reach 30 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (2d8) slashing damage, plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage and the creature must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury of Setback [ severity, “Laceration”. Each time the Injury creature takes an action, it loses 3 (1d6) hit points. This Injury is automatically removed at the end of a short rest, or when the creature regains hit points via magic. The bloodthorn druid gains temporary hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. Bloodthorn Bonds (1/Rest). The bloodthorn druid casts bloodthorn bonds *. One creature within 60 ft. that the bloodthorn druid can see must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) piercing damage and gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, "Bloodthorn Host", until the spell ends. While Injured in this way, a creature is restrained and takes 7 (2d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, it can attempt a DC 13 Strength check to break the bonds. Alternatively, any creature can attack the vines to break it free. Each vine has an AC of 15 and must be dealt at least 10 damage with a single action to be destroyed. Once three vines have been destroyed, the spell ends. Vicarious Shriek (1/Rest). The bloodthorn druid casts vicarious shriek *. Up to three creatures the bloodthorn druid can see within 30 ft. must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed saving throw, each creature takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage, plus 7 (2d6) additional psychic damage per creature that failed its saving throw, or half as much on a successful save. Additionally, each creature that fails its save becomes frightened of the bloodthorn druid and each target of the spell other than themselves. At the end of each of their turns, they can attempt a new saving throw to shake off the fear. On a creature's first failed save, the nearest creature within 60 ft. of them that is hostile to the bloodthorn druid and was not a target of the initial casting of the spell must make a Wisdom saving throw, on a failed save this creature takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage and becomes frightened of the bloodthorn druid and the targets of the spell. On a successful save the creature takes half damage and is not frightened. This creature can also attempt a new save to end its fear at the end of each of its turns, though the spell does not target additional creatures if it fails this save. Desiccating Sphere (1/Day). The bloodthorn druid casts desiccating sphere *. They reach out, pulling the life-giving water from each creature in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on a point you can see within range. Each living creature in the sphere must make a Constitution saving throw or take 27 (5d10) necrotic damage and gain a special Injury, "Dehydrated". While Injured in this way, a creature gains one level of exhaustion and has its non-magical movement speeds reduced by 5 ft.. Dehydrated is an Injury of Setback I severity, and is automatically removed at the end of a long rest. A creature cannot gain this Injury more than once, and it cannot be removed with a Wisdom (Medicine) check unless that check is made in conjunction with healing magic or made at the end of a short rest. On a successful save, a creature takes half damage and is not Injured. Plants have disadvantage on the saving throw, are vulnerable to the damage, and the movement speed penalty of the Dehydrated Injury increases to 10 ft..

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

