# Blood-Starved Vampire

**description**: They look like us. Sometimes they even act like us. But they are not like us. Lydia Lockwood, Occultist Vampirism is a curse of blood. A curse that harrows its victims, turning them into mirror-mockeries of life. They become beings of pure vitality that nonetheless hunger for life’s essence: blood. With that hunger comes power everlasting over life and death. By feeding, a vampire passes this curse onto their victims. Though vampires are fundamentally changed from their mortal forms, they retain the intellect and memories of their mortal selves. Vampire Spawn. A vampire’s power grows as they spend time in undeath. Vampire spawn, the youngest of their ilk, are barely separated from their mortal selves. They are driven by their thirst for blood and by their master’s orders. Thanks to adventurers and zealous priests, few vampire spawn survive long enough to become true vampires. True Vampire. After about a hundred years of undeath, a spawn grows in strength and intelligence, becoming a true vampire. They learn to control their thirst and earn new gifts, allowing them to turn their victims into vampire spawn and to charm humanoids. These benefits let the vampire blend into humanoid society, often by masquerading as a long-lost relative of their old family or taking up their former profession. Meanwhile, they carefully choose prey and build a protective army of spawn and thralls. Vampire Lord. Most vampire lords have spent more than three hundred years in undeath. Some are created through powerful magic. Most have been so corrupted by their curse that they have no moral code and stop at nothing to get what they want. After centuries of amassing resources, vampire lords have the power to achieve nearly any goal. Some build empires. Others seek godhood. A few lie dormant, buried in sarcophagi while the ages flow past, waiting to awaken in new worlds ripe for the plucking. Strengths and Weaknesses. Though most vampires shun sunlight, some know a secret ritual to counteract this weakness. Vampires don’t require food, water, or air, but their bodies become desiccated husks if they don’t regularly drink the blood of living beings. Each vampire has a special resting place, typically a coffin or similar vessel, where they can regenerate after an arduous battle. While thus recuperating, they can’t move. Vampire Thralls. True vampires and vampire lords can cast geas , which charms other creatures to do the vampire’s bidding. Vampires use this spell to charm creatures in positions of authority. Most have at least one or two thralls working in local governments, which allows the vampire to prey on the populace without any interference from law enforcement or military. Though magic makes reliable thralls, vampires also rely on promises and coercion to maintain a reliable feeding ground and enact sinister plots. Some humanoids are so desperate for power that they will kill for a vampire in exchange for a promise of being turned into one of the undead someday. Vampires also rely on their servants and supernatural abilities to uncover the crimes and misconduct of mortals in power. Those secrets are used to blackmail people into doing a vampire’s bidding. Whenever a servant disobeys a vampire, swift retribution comes in the form of teeth to the neck. At least they can serve as a drink. There is always another who can take the thrall’s place. Exsanguinating Weapons. Vampire lords can summon exsanguinating weapons made from the blood of their enemies. Only they can wield these weapons, and when a vampire is destroyed, their exsanguinating weapons disappear. The most infamous of these weapons is Sanguinus, the sword of Count Rhodar von Glauer. Blood-Starved Vampires. When a vampire goes without blood for a year or more, their body shrivels, becoming a living husk. The vampire’s thirst for blood becomes their singular focus as their weakened form craves it. These blood-starved vampires often band together for survival, since a single blow can turn one to dust. A blood-starved vampire must drink the blood of scores of humanoids to be restored to an unweakened state. Traits Minion. If the vampire takes damage from an attack or as the result of a failed saving throw, their hit points are reduced to 0. If the vampire takes damage from another effect, they die if the damage equals or exceeds their hit point maximum; otherwise they take no damage. Radiant Weakening. The vampire has disadvantage on saving throws against effects that deal radiant damage. Actions Feeding Frenzy (Group Attack). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2 piercing damage plus 3 necrotic damage. If two or more vampires joined the attack, the target’s hit point maximum is reduced by a number equal to the necrotic damage dealt. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest or is targeted by a cure ailment power, a lesser restoration spell, or a similar supernatural effect. The target dies if this attack reduces their hit point maximum to 0.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

