# Bloodscale Tyrant

**description**: Bloodscale tyrants are one of nature's most terrifying predators. Related to other theropods such as allosauri, these crimson-scaled dinosaurs wear a crown of bone spikes which inspired the latter part of their name, and have a number of feathers on their back, tail, and arms that help them remain stable during their hunt. As apex predators, bloodscale tyrants have an excellent smell for blood, and have been compared to sharks for their ability to sense wounded creatures at a distance by scent alone, though in reality they are not much better than wolves. Iron Scales. Beyond their crimson color, a bloodscale tyrant's scales are unique, absorbing iron from its own blood when wounded and amplifying their defensive properties and hardening them against incoming blows. Tactics. Despite its huge size, the bloodscale tyrant prefers to hunt medium creatures so that it can quickly swallow them and avoid an extended fight. However, for creatures too large to swallow, it simply relies on its feral strength to beat them into unconsciousness before tearing in for its meal. Its ability to remain still, combined with its excellent senses, also makes it an excellent ambush predator and whenever possible it seeks to take its prey unawares, opening the fight with a Pouncing Stomp if it is fighting more than one creature, or attempting to carry away a single creature by attacking with Vicious Chomp followed by Swallow Whole on its next turn. Traits Blood Scent. The bloodscale tyrant has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks relying on smell to detect Injured creatures with blood. Bloodscaled Monstrosity. While the bloodscale tyrant is Injured, its AC increases by 2. This trait can be negated with a special Injury of Handicap III severity specifically targeting this trait. Actions Vicious Chomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8+5) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be grappled. The bloodscale tyrant can only have one creature grappled in this way at a time. A grappled creature of size Medium or smaller becomes aware that it can be easily swallowed. Pouncing Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., up to two targets. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) bludgeoning or piercing damage. If the bloodscale tyrant moved at least 10 feet in a straight line before making this attack, the target(s) must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be grappled and knocked prone. The bloodscale tyrant releases its grip when it moves. Swallow Whole (grappled creature only). The bloodscale tyrant tosses its head back, giving one final chomp as it swallows the creature held in its mouth. One creature size Medium or smaller grappled by its Vicious Chomp must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 23 (4d8+5) piercing damage. Success or failure, the creature is swallowed by the bloodscale tyrant. The bloodscale tyrant can have up to 2 Medium or 4 Small creatures (or 1 Medium and 2 Small) swallowed at once. A swallowed creature is grappled and restrained, and takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage, plus 3 (1d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns. Whenever the bloodscale tyrant becomes Injured, it must make a Constitution saving throw equal to the temporary recovery DC of the Injury or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 5 feet of the bloodscale tyrant. If the bloodscale tyrant dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 15 feet of movement, exiting prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 1/7/1900

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

