# Bloodlord Varrox

**description**: Bloodlord Varrox Rides Again! If the characters managed to dispatch Bloodlord Varrox, the hobgoblin could easily return with the help of his infernal patrons to take revenge on the heroes who killed him. When Bloodlord Varrox returns from death, he can be more powerful than his previous incarnation, choosing from or inspired by one of the following options: Varrox returns with 168 hit points and a Strength of 24 (+7). Because of his new Strength score, he makes Strength (Athletics) checks with a +10 bonus and makes Soulsword and Death Skulls attacks with a +10 bonus to attack rolls and a +7 bonus to damage rolls. Varrox returns as a devil adjudicator (see “ECAS Stat Blocks”). Varrox returns as a vampire (see “Shadowkeep Stat Blocks”). Bloodlord Varrox stands victorious over his vanquished enemies. Traits Infernal Ichor. When Varrox dies, his corpse unleashes a spray of burning orange ichor. Each creature within 5 feet of him takes 5 fire damage. Infernal Sacrifice ( 3 /Day). When Varrox fails a saving throw, he can call on Hell to succeed instead. When he does, each ally within 60 feet of him takes 5 necrotic damage. Actions Multiattack. Varrox makes three attacks using Soulsword, Death Skulls, or both. Soulsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, they can’t regain hit points until the start of Varrox’s next turn. Death Skulls. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage, and Varrox can teleport to an unoccupied space he can see within 5 feet of the target. Bonus Actions Advance and Attack. Varrox barks orders at one ally within 60 feet of him who can hear him. That ally can use their reaction to move up to their speed and make a weapon attack. Reactions An Army from Blood. When a non-minion hobgoblin who Varrox can see within 60 feet of him takes damage, Varrox magically summons three hobgoblin recruits who appear in unoccupied spaces nearest to the damaged hobgoblin. Villain Actions Varrox has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Uncanny Leadership. Varrox chooses up to six non-minion allies within 60 feet of him who can see or hear him. Varrox and each chosen creature gain 10 temporary hit points and can move up to their speed. Action 2 : Hellish Transport. Varrox and each ally within 60 feet of him can teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space they can see. Action 3 : I Am Fire and Death. Each enemy within 20 feet of Varrox must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) fire damage plus 11 (2d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After the explosion, a shroud of black flame covers Varrox for 1 minute. For the duration, each time another creature hits Varrox with an attack while within 5 feet of him or touches him, that creature takes 5 (1d10) fire damage plus 5 (1d10) necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Hobgoblin)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

