# Bloodhound

**description**: Bio-Automatons When Dr. Stein discovered the Clockwork Arcadia’s advanced prototyper, CRE, he introduced it to the stochastic mutations that form the basis of biomantic research. He developed a process by which the deterministic machine could ‘imagine’ novel automaton designs, choose the best for a given purpose, and create new iterations on that prototype. Dubbing this form of burgeoning sentience ‘arcanificial intelligence’ (AI), he named this iterative process the AI-core-rhythm. With CREO’s help, CRE began creating a catalogue of all known lifeforms in the multiverse, combining this new-found knowledge with the reliability of its mechanical constructs. The result: bio-automatons. Bloodhound Bloodhounds are creatures born of biomancy and artifice. The subject for any bloodhound is a creature in possession of an especially tough physique; the surgeries to augment its body and the toll of the biomantic treatments on its organs can reduce even a stout farmer to a wasted husk. Bestial Affinity. A bloodhound sculpts its physique using the world around it as inspiration. More often than not, this draws from common creatures, like wolves and bears, or those that feed on the bloodhound’s scraps, such as ravens and hyenas. Though not necessarily evil, the further a bloodhound progresses on its journey of self-modification, the greater its mannerisms, behaviour, and thought patterns evolve to mimic its muse, and the more bestial it becomes. Regional Effects The region containing a bloodhound’s lair is warped by the infusion of his dark magic, creating one or more of the following effects: Enhanced Darkness. Shadows are magically extended and darker within the 6 miles surrounding the bloodhound’s lair. The radius of a creature’s darkvision is halved while within this area. Animal Frenzy. Animals are more aggressive and agitated than typical while within 1 mile of the bloodhound’s lair. Mounts and animal companions grow increasingly restless and difficult to handle, suffering disadvantage on Perception checks. Beasts with an Intelligence score of 3 or lower are most likely to experience this effect. Hunted. While within 1 mile of the bloodhound’s lair, humanoids feel as if they are being watched at all times and have an increasing sense that something is hunting them. If the bloodhound dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Lair Actions While the bloodhound is in its lair, it can use the following lair actions. The saving throw DC and damage of the lair actions depend on the level of the hunt, as shown in the Variable Lair Action Statistics table. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam Darkness Pack Howl 3rd 12 3 ( 1d6 ) 2nd-level Wolf 8th 14 7 ( 2d6 ) 4th-level Dire wolf 13 16 14 ( 4d6 ) 6th-level Poison wolf Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the bloodhound can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the bloodhound can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Darkness. The bloodhound creates a 20-foot-radius sphere of magical darkness, as per the darkness spell, centred on a point of his choice within the lair that lasts until initiative count 20 of the following round. The effect has an equivalent spell level equal to the value in the table above. Thorn Wall. The bloodhound summons tangled, thorny vines and brambles that burst from the ground, as per the wall of thorns spell and last for one hour ; the save DC and damage equals VDC and Vdam , respectively. Pack Howl (Waves 2 & 3 Only). The bloodhound rears back and unleashes an undulating howl, summoning a member of his wild pack. The creature summoned depends on the hunt level.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: construct
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

