# Blood Elemental

**description**: A rare form of water elemental, these creatures are typically created via magic rather than spontaneous formation. In cases where they survive their creation and escape to carry on their existence, they can inflict terrible losses on local fauna, and even whole towns and villages may be discovered exsanguinated in their wake. Appearance. Blood elementals are easily identifiable by sight, but the first sign that one is nearby is often an overpowering scent of bloody iron. In appearance, they typically have more form than a water elemental, with their top seeming roughly humanoid. Their heads have a smattering of eyes (usually about 13) and a jagged-toothed jaw, and their thick arms end in long, sharp claws. Unlike water elementals, their fluid form is much more viscous, and may appear somewhat curdled, with thick blobs dripping and running along the surface of their body. Tactics. When free to choose their own actions, blood elementals try to engulf as many creatures as possible, delivering Exsanguinating Touches to any creature it can't absorb. When fighting many creatures at once, it does its best to place a level of Exsanguinated on each creature it is fighting to reduce the likelihood of them escaping before seeking to increase those levels to Deadly IIII outcome. Traits Fluid Form. The blood elemental can move into a hostile creature’s space and stop there. It can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch without squeezing, and any space as small as ¼ inch when squeezing. When the blood elemental enters a creature’s space, that creature must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw to avoid the blood elemental’s Exsanguinating Touch. Additionally, the blood elemental is immune to effects that would cause it to bleed. Cold Weakness. Cold damage dealt to the blood elemental is considered 5 higher for the purposes of inflicting an Injury. Exsanguinating Touch. Whenever a creature with blood comes into contact with the blood elemental on its turn, that creature must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury, “Exsanguinated”. While Injured in this way, a creature is considered to have 1 level of exhaustion. Each time the creature would gain this Injury again, instead increase the level of the Injury (Exsanguinated 2, Exsanguinated 3, etc.). For every additional level of Exsanguination, the creature is considered to have another level of exhaustion. These exhaustion levels are removed when the Injury is removed. A creature naturally recovers from all levels of Exsanguination at the end of a long rest, and recovers from one level at the end of each short rest. A creature can’t gain more than one level of Exsanguinated in the same round. Actions Multiattack . The blood elemental makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) bludgeoning damage, and the creature is affected by the blood elemental’s Exsanguinating Touch. Engulf (recharge 4-6). Each creature in the elemental’s space must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failure, a target takes 11 (2d6+4) bludgeoning damage. If it is Large or smaller, it is also grappled (escape DC 15), and is restrained until the grapple ends. If the saving throw is successful, it is pushed out of the elemental’s space. A creature engulfed by the elemental can still breathe normally. The elemental can grapple one Large creature or up to two Medium or smaller creatures at a time. At the start of each of the elemental’s turns, each target grappled by it takes 11 (2d6+4) bludgeoning damage. A creature within 5 feet of the elemental can pull a creature or object out of it by taking an action to make a DC 15 Strength check and succeeding. When a creature attempts to pull another creature out of the elemental, it must either make a Constitution saving throw against the Exsanguinating Touch, or make its Strength check with disadvantage as it tries to avoid coming into contact with the elemental.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

