# Blood-Borne Ooze Companion (PB 4)

**description**: Blood-borne oozes form when ambient necrotic energy seeps into the blood of a corpse. Hunger drives these creatures to slither from their rotting birthplace, seeking to feed on the bodily fluids of a living victim—from the inside. Outside a host body, a blood-borne ooze resembles a gelatinous pool of blood mixed with other bodily ichor. The ooze’s ability to permeate skin—living or dead—allows them to infect unsuspecting mourners, coroners, gravediggers, or other individuals who frequent cemeteries. Hidden Parasites. Whenever possible, a blood-borne ooze prefers to feed stealthily, inhabiting a host and draining their vitality over an extended period. Through careful feeding, an ooze can exist inside the same host for weeks before symptoms become apparent. Even then, the cause is commonly misdiagnosed until it’s too late. Traits Amorphous. The ooze can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Actions Signature Attack (Pseudopod). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB bludgeoning damage. 1 st Level: Distracting Attack ( 2 Ferocity). The ooze makes a signature attack. On a hit, the attack deals its normal effects, and the next attack made against the target before the start of the ooze’s next turn has advantage. 3 rd Level: Clever Goop ( 5 Ferocity). The ooze takes the Hide action and makes a signature attack (in either order). If the attack hits a Large or smaller creature, the target is knocked prone. While the ooze is hidden in this way, they can approach a creature or move where they’re clearly visible without automatically giving away their position. 5 th Level: Crimson Feast ( 8 Ferocity). The ooze attempts to enter the body of a creature they can see within 5 feet of them who isn’t a Construct or an Undead. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the ooze melds into the target, who takes PBd6 necrotic damage, becomes the ooze’s host, and is poisoned until the ooze exits the host. While melded, the ooze has total cover against attacks and other effects originating outside the host, and they can’t take any action except to exit the host as a bonus action. At the start of each of the ooze’s turns, the host must make a DC 10 plus PB Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the host takes PBd6 necrotic damage and remains melded. On a successful save, the host takes half as much damage and the ooze exits the host. If the host dies or is subject to a cure ailment power, a protection from poison or lesser restoration spell, or a similar supernatural effect, the ooze exits the host. When the ooze exits the host, they enter an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the host. Bonus Actions Parasitic Symbiosis. If the ooze’s caregiver is within 5 feet of them, the ooze moves inside their caregiver. While inside their caregiver, the ooze has total cover against attacks and other effects originating outside the caregiver. The ooze can exit the caregiver by using another bonus action, entering an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the caregiver. Quick Cure ( 1 /Day). While inside their caregiver (see Parasitic Symbiosis), the ooze cleanses their caregiver’s blood, ending the paralyzed and poisoned conditions on the caregiver.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Ooze
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

