# Blue-Flame Custodian

**description**: Creations of the Scions, blue-flame custodians are instrumental tools of the eldritch hunt, as their azure flames reveal even those who lurk beyond. Though their minds are engineered to be unbreakable, their swords often fail under the tremendous force of their blows. The cerulean fire that powers them is manufactured by exposing flames to Scionic lightning, a practice that some in their ranks call blasphemous. A custodian's sturdy body is used as a shield in the midst of battle, defending the intellectual and frail scientists that are the Scions—a shield that must be held separate from one’s body. Indeed, some have tried to create armor from the body of custodians; all were immolated by the azure flames. In the aftermath of the first hunts, the production of blue-flame custodians came to a halt, as the rare metals required for their construction disappeared, along with entire trade routes, when Luyarnha was cut off from the world. Now, what remains of these living suits of armor is fiercely protected by the Scions, and their bodies are always sought after, should they fall in battle. Traits Illumination. The custodian sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. Immutable Form. The custodian is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Inferno (1/Day). Upon approaching death's door, the custodian unleashes its full potential. When the custodian is reduced to 84 hit points or fewer, its flames consume it for the next minute, and it gains the following benefits: At the start of each of its turns, each creature within 5 feet of it takes 5 (2d4) fire damage. Its Blue-Flame Blast creates a 30-foot cone and deals an additional 3 (1d6) fire damage. Its melee weapon attacks deal an additional 2 (1d4) fire damage on a hit. Its speed is doubled. Magic Resistance. The custodian has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The custodian's weapon attacks are magical. Scorching Azure. Whenever the custodian deals fire damage, its blue flames are unleashed. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be scorched by them for 1 minute or until a creature takes an action to douse the fire. While scorched in this way, a creature sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius, takes 2 (1d4) fire damage at the start of each of its turns, can't benefit from being invisible, and the custodian can see it through full cover while within 300 feet of it. Actions Multiattack. The custodian makes two melee attacks. Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) slashing damage. Bonus actions Blue-Flame Burst. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) fire damage. Blue-Flame Blast (Recharge 3-6). The custodian magically releases a blast of flames in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature within 5 feet of the custodian can use its reaction to attempt to redirect the flames before creatures make their saving throws. It must make a contested Athletics check. On a success, it can choose in which direction the custodian releases the burst of flames. Reactions Blinding Nova. When the custodian is attacked by a creature within 30 feet of it that it can see, the custodian can impose disadvantage on the attack roll, causing a burst of blinding flames to erupt from itself. An attacker that can't be blinded is immune to this effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

