# Boggle Trickster

**description**: Boggle tricksters are craftier, quicker, and tend to be more annoying than their normal kin. Arcane Tricksters. These boggles are canny rogues that dabble in enchantments and illusions which they use for distraction while it skips in and out of the darkness to steal from, frighten, and – at inopportune moments – torment its victims. While they do not intentionally try to kill anyone, they can be very dangerous if backed into a corner, if that is at all possible. Sneaky Infiltrators. When not engaging in pranks to amuse themselves, boggle tricksters are sometimes hired as spies by their fey masters to infiltrate strategic targets, such as a noble folk's keep, a church, or a wizard's tower where they can potentially encounter adventurers hired as guards. Traits Evasion. If the boggle is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the boggle instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Actions Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage. The attack deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage if the boggle has advantage on the attack roll. Bolt of Misfortune. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) psychic damage, and the target has disadvantage on its next attack roll, ability check, or saving throw made within the next minute. Oil Puddle. The boggle creates a puddle of oil that is either slippery or sticky (boggle’s choice). The puddle is 1 inch deep and covers the ground in the boggle’s space. The puddle is difficult terrain for all creatures except boggles and lasts for 1 hour. If the oil is slippery, any creature that enters the puddle’s area or starts its turn there must succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. If the oil is sticky, any creature that enters the puddle’s area or starts its turn there must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be restrained. On its turn, a creature can use an action to try to extricate itself from the sticky puddle, ending the effect and moving into the nearest safe unoccupied space with a successful DC 12 Strength check. Spellcasting. The boggle casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion 1/day each: disguise self, invisibility, phantasmal force, silent image, Tasha's hideous laughter Bonus Actions Boggle Oil. The boggle excretes nonflammable oil from its pores, giving itself one of the following benefits of its choice until it uses this bonus action again: Slippery Oil. The boggle has advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks made to escape bonds and end grapples, and it can move through openings large enough for a Tiny creature without squeezing. Sticky Oil. The boggle has advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks made to grapple and any ability check made to maintain a hold on another creature, a surface, or an object. The boggle can also climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Dimensional Rift. The boggle creates an invisible and immobile rift within an opening or frame it can see within 5 feet of it, provided that the space is no bigger than 10 feet on any side. The dimensional rift bridges the distance between that space and a point within 30 feet of it that the boggle can see or specify by distance and direction (such as “30 feet straight up”). While next to the rift, the boggle can see through it and is considered to be next to the destination as well, and anything the boggle puts through the rift (including a portion of its body) emerges at the destination. Only the boggle can use the rift, and it lasts until the end of the boggle’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

