# Bogie

**description**: The bogie (also called a boogeyman, boogie monster, or boogie woogie) is the embodiment of nightmares. Their appearance varies from moment to moment, but those targeted by a bogie's Terrify action can identify that bogie upon sight regardless of the form they take. A bogie feeds off the fear of their victims; rather than killing their prey, they often savor the victim's terror for weeks or even months at a time. Bogies are typically found in urban environments, particularly in crowded living spaces—or even in closets and under beds. Tactics A bogie often attacks from hiding, targeting a creature who looks inexperienced or uncertain. They use their Terrify ability until a target fails its saving throw, then harry the same creature with melee attacks. However, bogies are innate cowards who prefer to feed on helpless targets and flee combat when they know they can't win. Bogie Mythology Tales of bogies and similar monsters are found in many cultures, often used by adults to frighten children into good behavior. Bogies are typically described as masculine or androgynous monsters that punish people for misbehavior, though their appearance varies from story to story. In modern family media, they're often portrayed as cute "monsters" instead of sinister terrors. Incorporeal Movement . The bogie can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. They take 5 (1d10) force damage if they end their turn inside an object. Actions Multiattack . The bogie uses Terrify, then makes two attacks with their claws. Claws . Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit : 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage. Terrify . The bogie chooses one creature within 30 feet of them that can see the bogie. The bogie’s form changes, embodying the greatest fear of their target. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the bogie for 1 minute. A creature frightened in this way can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success. If the bogie targets a creature with Terrify while another creature is affected by it, the effect ends for the previous target. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to any bogie’s Terrify for the next 24 hours. Shadow Shift. The bogie enters the Shadowfell from the Feywild or Material Plane, or leaves the Shadowfell and enters the Feywild or Material Plane. When using Shadow Shift to leave the Shadowfell, the bogie’s destination must be a confined space just big enough for them to fit inside (such as within a closet, under a bed, or inside a trunk). Spellcasting . The bogie’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). They can cast the following spells, requiring no components: At will: vicious mockery 3/day: detect thoughts Bonus Actions Marked for Death . The bogie chooses a creature they can see within 90 feet of them and magically marks the target as their quarry for 1 minute. Whenever the bogie hits the target with a weapon attack, they deal an extra 1d6 damage. Scare to Death . The bogie deals 14 (4d6) psychic damage to a creature within 30 feet of them that they can see that is frightened by their Terrify action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 22851
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 12

