# Bonemonger Ulna

**description**: Bonemonger Little is known about astral hermits thanks to their propensity to set up shop in hard-to-reach locations. They are far-travelling aberrations, each developing extremely specific obsessions such as light, words, or bones. Astral hermits study their area of interest in meticulous detail, using it as a medium through which to learn more of the world. Corporeal Forms. A male astral hermit is made up of two bodies: his heart and his hearth. An astral hermit’s hearth is a maze-like construction at the centre of which is a portal to the Astral Plane. The astral hermit’s heart is how he presents himself to the world. Usually, this is in a form that is inviting to creatures of that plane, a tactic which ensures plentiful trade. Reproduction. Male and female astral hermits lead two very different existences. A male astral hermit’s hearth is his bower, and his heart can never travel further than a few hundred feet from it. The abundance and richness of its treasures (which to the common person may appear as worthless relics) help to impress females of the species, which flit through the Astral Plane searching for portals into the hearth’s of other hermits. When a union is formed, eggs are produced and jettisoned into the astral expanse. Crafters and Enchanters. Astral hermits are innately magical beings, able to imbue items or creatures with enchantments shaped by their subject of obsession. Unable to travel far from their hearths, astral hermits create reputations of skill with enchanting and use that as the currency with which they trade for relics that further fuel their obsession. Bonemonger. The bonemonger’s obsession is bones. Fossilised, inscribed, splintered, or fresh, the bonemonger can read the history of every bone that passes him, learning much of the creatures to which they once belonged. The bonemonger has also learnt to animate these bones with his necromantic magic, allowing them to act as guards, workers, and scouts. The bonemonger chooses the form of a tiny white rabbit as his heart, an unassuming form that is nevertheless extremely deadly when threatened. A Bonemonger’s Lair The bonemonger’s lair is its hearth, a nacre-coated spiral, folding in on itself and distorting gravity so that down is always towards its centre. Bones adorn every surface, and can be animated to prevent intrusion by unfriendly folks. Trinkets for trade can be found among the bones, making a newly formed lair a veritable hoard. The area around a bonemonger’s lair becomes distorted by its aberrant magic, often mixing with the background magic of the plane on which it finds itself. The bonemonger’s predilection for anything osseous leads to a lair that animates bones in a variety of ways. Often, this mingling of magic results in the spontaneous formation of zones of retributive truth , areas that punish those who lie or fail to answer questions in a timely manner (see Jim the Enchanter & The Swamp of Death on page 319). Regional Effects The area within 6 miles of the bonemonger’s lair has the following properties: Osteomancy. Bones never really settle and always seem to be in different positions than when observed a moment ago. Sometimes, entire severed limbs might drag themselves around with no apparent goal. Veritae Mucoformus. Zones of retributive truth spontaneously form. They are anywhere from 5 to 500 feet in radius and are often delineated by the growth of the rare Veritae mucoformus fungus. Odd Folk. The bonemonger is a trader, giving gifts of magical items and strange powers in return for interesting bones. Creatures that have recently travelled to him often carry these odd boons. If the bonemonger dies, the bones cease to move of their own accord and the zones of retributive truth fade over the course of 1d10 days . Enchantments the bonemonger has imbued into items and people persists. Lair Action While the bonemonger lives, he can invoke the ambient magic of his lair to take lair actions on initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties). The saving throw DCs and damage of the lair actions depend on the level at which the adventure is run, as shown in the Level-Based Lair Action Statistics table. The hunt’s level is determined by the average level of the adventuring party. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC VDam VDist 4th 12 3 ( 1d6 ) 20 feet 10th 15 10 ( 3d6 ) 40 feet 16th 17 21 ( 6d6 ) 60 feet Bone Carapace. Up to three creatures of the bonemonger’s choice that are in his lair become encased in articulating bone armour, gaining temporary hit points equal to half of Vdam (minimum of 2 ). These temporary hit points are lost after 1 hour . Probing Question. The bonemonger asks one creature in his lair that can hear him an insightful and thought-provoking question. If the creature doesn’t answer the question truthfully and out loud within 6 seconds (the end of its next turn, if in combat), the creature is flung up to Vdist in a direction of the bonemonger’s choice. Examples of possible questions: What is your greatest fear? Who do you admire most and why? Do you have any biases for or against certain people? What is the biggest mistake you have ever made? What item in your possession do you care most about and why? How do you feel about keeping secrets from the rest of the party? Tanglebones. Bones of all descriptions—spines, claws, and jaws—emerge from the floor, walls, and ceiling of the bonemonger’s lair. Until initiative count 20 on the following round, all surfaces in the lair become difficult terrain for creatures of the bonemonger’s choice. In addition, each creature of the bonemonger’s choice that is within 5 feet of a surface a surface when this lair action occurs must make a Strength saving throw or become grappled by the bones ( escape DC equals VDC ), which have a reach of 5 feet .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

