# Bone Devil Living Idol (Eminent Rank)

**description**: Certain star systems are mystically interdicted, meaning that from the heart of their burning star to the distant nebulae and asteroid clouds at the verge of interstellar space, the entirety of that system is sealed against dimensional travel to the Astral Plane and the Outer Planes beyond. Most celestial, fiends, and similar creatures native to the Outer Planes (not to be mistaken with those from the Inner Planes like elementals) brought to the Material are ordinary examples of their own kind, capable of being forced back to their home plane by spells such as banishment . When an outsider native to the Outer Planes dies in such a system, there is no natural current for their planar energies to return to their native realm, nor are their fusions of body and soul drawn into the star itself as mortal souls are. Instead, their bodies decay and their spirits are warped by the planar forces that seal away the influence of gods, imprisoning the outsider forever. Imprisoned outsiders are no longer treated as extraplanar entities, forever bound to the Material and diminished in power and influence. Disconnected from their native plane, these outsiders drift over the course of their immortal years, shifting in outlook and ideology in ways they were never capable of before; imprisoned devils might discover their binding maddening and divert from their lawful ideas and angels may be driven to corruption by millennia of suffering and hopelessness. Imprisoned outsiders are unpredictable, usually dangerous, and never what they appear to be on the surface. Worse yet, imprisoned outsiders contain an untampered spark of divinity within themselves that responds to the adoration and veneration of worshippers. In a paradoxical existence, these imprisoned outsiders become a form of idol, capable of granting unusual supernatural abilities to their followers in exchange for a demanding toll they exert on these creatures. Cults of living idols arise in the remote corners of the world where desperate masses cling to these extreme demagogues. Some imprisoned outsiders use the worship of their cults to spread hope and good will, while most fall into decadence or entropy, becoming blights on the societies they invest. Parasitic Faith. No matter the good intentions they may possess, living idols are little more than spiritual parasites clinging to the immortal souls of living creatures to justify their presence on the Material Plane. Living idols themselves do not fully understand the means by which they are able to enact such change on both themselves and their followers, or how they can become so entangled with mortal souls to begin with. Each living idol has its own notions, and each one is colored by the living idol’s personal outlook and is equally as mercurial. Living idols often indulge themselves in mortal pleasures and behaviors once ignored in their planar residences. Creatures once obsessed with death become fascinated by life, and the more forbidden the fruit the more tempting it becomes to the living idol, leading them down anathema orgies to discovery and excess. Cults. The fiefdoms of living idols vary between clandestine monasteries located far from civilization, to seditious cults lingering in the shadows of great arcologies, to decadent churches of worship drifting through the Gulf in great asteroid colonies and everything in between. There is little rhyme or reason to a living idol’s choice of surroundings, short of convenience and accessibility to followers. Each habitat is as unique as the living idol that inhabits it, and equally likely to be torn down and changed when the living idol experiences a fitful shift of mortality on their journey of personal discovery. Each cult that venerates a living idol is equally unique and as likely to be subtle and insidious as they are bombastic and performative. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Corbel; panose-1:2 11 5 3 2 2 4 2 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1610611985 1073783883 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.AetheraStatBlock1, li.AetheraStatBlock1, div.AetheraStatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Aethera Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Corbel",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

