# Bone Devil Arch-Magus

**description**: Devils grow in power as they get promoted. They rise in ranks and transform from lowly lemures into lesser devils, then greater devils, and finally, into archdevils. In very rare instances though, there are devils that may choose not to be transformed. Devils, who, through some unknown cosmic force or otherwordly power, gain abilities beyond their natural limits. Fearing they might lose such powers after being promoted, they willingly remain in their current form. These devils may continue to rise in rank despite being in a lesser form. Such are the cases of lesser and greater devils gifted with arcane magic. Arcane Masters. Bone devil magi continue to fulfill their roles as taskmasters. However, they utilize magic to make themselves the ultimate overlords, imposing their will on all lesser devils, including other bone devils. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the devil's darkvision. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the devil fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The devil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The devil makes two Claw attacks and one Sting attack. Alternatively, it can use Elemental Bolt three times. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage. Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 17 (5d6) poison damage and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Elemental Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) acid, cold, fire, or lightning (devil's choice) damage. Spellcasting. The devil casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion, true strike 2/day each: fog cloud, hold person (up to 2 targets), lightning bolt, mirror image 1/day each: banishment, cloudkill, delayed blast fireball, disintegrate, fear, power word stun, time stop, wall of fire Bonus Actions Quickened Spell (5/Day). The devil uses Spellcasting. Reactions Shield (3/Day). An invisible barrier of magical force appears and protects the bone devil. Until the start of the bone devil's next turn, the bone devil has a +5 bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack, and takes no damage from magic missile . Legendary Actions The devil can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The devil regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The devil makes a Claw attack. Elemental Bolt. The devil uses Elemental Bolt. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The devil magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The devil uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

