# Bonestalker

**description**: Whispered legends tell of horrors who dwell in the deepest, darkest forests and torment villages on the outskirts. These so-called bonestalkers feed on the terror of their victims—and of entire villages—long before going in for the kill. Bonestalkers are tall and unsettlingly thin. Their head is a monstrous skull with a jutting jaw, and their long arms are flightless black wings that end in clawed hands. Bonestalkers collect the skulls of their victims, carrying them inside their wings as they draw power from these trophies. Fear Tactics. The bonestalker prefers to isolate their prey, using illusion spells to lure unwitting wanderers into the woods. These psychological tormenters enjoy a prolonged chase and a slow kill, drawing nourishment from their prey’s fear. When a victim refuses to give in to terror, the enraged bonestalker attacks in a reckless fury. Traits Bones of the Lost. The bonestalker starts with 5 (2d4) skulls, which they can destroy to fuel their actions and reactions. Choose or roll a d4 to determine each skull’s creature type: 1, Beast; 2, Fey; 3, Humanoid; 4, Monstrosity. Skull Resistance. While the bonestalker possesses at least one skull, they have advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. Actions Multiattack. The bonestalker makes two Touch of the Felled or two Scream of the Forsaken attacks, and they can use Grief of the Bygone. Touch of the Felled. Melee Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) necrotic damage. The bonestalker can destroy a Humanoid or Monstrosity skull to deal an extra 10 (3d6) psychic damage to the target. Scream of the Forsaken. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) psychic damage. The bonestalker can destroy a Fey skull to force the target to make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target is frightened of the bonestalker until the start of the bonestalker’s next turn. Grief of the Bygone. The bonestalker destroys two skulls of any type, creating a 15-foot-radius sphere of magical darkness centered on a point they can see within 60 feet of them. The darkness spreads around corners and lasts for 1 minute. A creature with darkvision can’t see through this darkness, and mundane light can’t illuminate it. The bonestalker is unaffected by the darkness and has advantage on attack rolls against creatures in the darkness.Any creature who starts their turn in the darkness must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Power from the Conquered. When the bonestalker is hit by an attack, they can destroy a Beast skull to become invisible until the end of their next turn. Utility Spells In addition to any other spells in this stat block, the bonestalker can cast the following spells, using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: minor illusion A 3/day: sile nt image A

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

