# Booa

**description**: Boða An incredibly powerful being, Boða has lived for centuries, perhaps longer, serving an indescribable being known simply as the Muspell. Boða ancestry originates with Muspell, and many, many, Yoten descend from her. Other Yoten are the progeny of Boða's numerous sisters. It is her duty to weaken worlds, so that they become vulnerable to its predation. Afterwards, Muspell enters those lands and devours them. The Lost Lands posed a particular challenge for Boða for there she found numerous powerful beings standing against her. She spent many decades just observing that world, hoping to identify the weakest points. To her chagrin the peoples of that world only became more powerful. When the heroes known as the Vanir arose, she knew she had to act. She found one among them—Mirgal—who longed for greater power, and she exploited that. That world, more than any other, cost her. For she brought many Yoten into the world during her time there. Many of her own children fell against the Vanir and worse still some—like Hel—challenged Boða. Her daughter in fact, abandoned Boða early in Grimnir's own history and Boða eventually had to kill her. Boða usually appears as a tall, elven woman with long blue-gray hair and piercing white eyes, the same form she used to seduce Mirgal so long ago. She wields the legendary Ironwood Staff of the Three though prefers to use her minions and spells in combat. The Ironwood Witches both fear and love her and most will sacrifice their lives in her defense—she is equally willing to sacrifice them, as required. They mean nothing to her. Roleplaying Boða Determined Mastermind. Her ploys and schemes are too complicated for mortals to understand, but every move she makes is to ensure she is victorious in bringing Muspell into Grimnir. To that end she must control the Rainbow Spear, the artifact she convinced Mirgal to create so very long ago. Watchful. At any time, she has dozens of schemes actively in place, with her witches acting as agents of chaos and disruption across the world. She keeps the clans fighting one another and provokes war with the Baendur whenever she needs a suitable distraction. Boða uses her swarms of witchbeetles to watch the world and for generations she has been growing a network of ironheart trees that enable the witches to teleport from any corner of the world to any other. She is doing all she can to ensure the Yoten emerge victorious in the final confrontation. Unstable. She believes every witch in her coven, including the Witchking, as well as most Yoten, belong to her. This is why she could not fathom that Hel would not simply obey her. It sends Boða into a murderous rage when those that she has created are not entirely dedicated to her. Changed. The life she lived in the Lost Lands made her fond of certain types of finery—she enjoys well made clothing and jewelry and is just as interested in staring at a piece of art as she is destroying it. Yet this appreciation does not make her waver in the least—after destroying Grimnir there will be equally interesting worlds to explore before they too are consumed. Saga Actions Point of No Return (1x). This feature is available in Chapter 12, to be used while Boða is enacting a terrible ritual. When Boða is reduced to less than 300 hit points, she abandons the ritual to try to slay the heroes. She immediately regains 100 hit points. At this point she can continue to use Muspell Legendary actions, but her focus is on incapacitating or killing nearby heroes before resuming the ritual. Final Chance (1/day). When reduced to zero hit points, Boða teleports to a safe location within 120 feet and is restored to 50 hit points. Lair Actions Boða's lair is considered to be any area within one mile of Muspell. When fighting inside their lair, Boða can invoke ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Boða can take one lair action to cause one of the following effects: Distraction. Boða becomes invisible until the end of her next turn, and all hostiles within her lair are deafened for the same duration. This invisibility is not broken by attacks or spells. Earthquake. An earthquake shakes the ground in and around the lair. Any creatures standing on the ground are knocked prone and take 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage. Reverberations through the ground causes the entire lair to be difficult terrain until another lair action is used. Thunderclap. Thunderous sound erupts throughout the lair, which can be heard from up to 3 miles away. Creatures in the region that are concentrating on a spell have their concentration broken and take 27 (6d8) thunder damage. Other creatures take 13 (3d8) thunder damage. A foul wind lingers and spoils all food and water unless quickly dispersed. Silence. All sound suddenly ceases throughout the lair, as if affected by a silence spell. Creatures cannot communicate with each other verbally, and spells with vocal components cannot be cast. The silence lasts until another lair action is used. Boða can't repeat an effect until they have all been used, and she can't use the same effect two rounds in a row.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Yoten
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 25792
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

