# Boreas, Lord of the North Wind

**description**: Rime encrusts the wild, spiky hair and beard of this gaunt, savage‑eyed man. He strides with an arrogant swagger, snapping blue eyes regarding those around him as an eagle regards the mouse. He carries a dragon-shaped horn, a spear of ice, and an enchanted longbow that shoots bolts of pure frozen air. Lord of the North Wind. Known for creating mass destruction and death on a whim, Boreas is a devouring spirit of the north who frequently tampers with the mortal world. His worldly avatar resides in a palace of blue ice and white marble on Thule’s highest peak, and he styles himself lord of all the North. Boreas suffers no disrespect and demands yearly tribute of gold, goods, and horses. He has a deep and abiding hatred of the three other Wind Lords. Easily Angered. When displeased, he bombards his “subjects” with snow, lightning storms, and gale-force winds, or buries them in avalanches by blowing his greater horn of blasting. When particularly displeased, he sends his various servants to descend upon a tribe or settlement without mercy. Legends of Boreas All hail the Devourer, for tales and kennings of Boreas are as common as a spring gale or a winter’s blast. Called the Hail Thrower, the Snowy Rager, and the Father of the Snow Mares, Boreas is said to have been one of four brothers who lived far to the south, before a bitter struggle between Boreas and his three younger brothers led to him cursing the others and leaving them to suffer forever in empty quarters of sand and dust, while he took the rich forests and cool northern climes for his own. Stories tell of that Boreas lives in a great tower in the Utmost North, served by frost giants, thuellai, and ice maidens. There he plots Ragnarok with Loki and the giants, but he has another wish—to woo and win the hand of a worthy wife, and he is bold enough to woo two by turns, Oluffa, the Queen of the Frost Giants and Nicnevin, Fey Queen of Witches. His daughter, the Snow Queen Morrinn of Grokeheim, is not fond of this wild romance, and she strives to keep her father far from the Witch-Queen’s affections and further still from Loki and the giants. To do this, she sometimes employs mortal heroes to steal a treasure from her father’s tower, to rustle away with his finest winter wolves, or to bring sweet spring air into his court, thereby provoking him into a rage, and turning his careful wooing of powerful beauties into an occasion for raw tempers and abject apologies. Traits Chilling Presence.: Boreas freezes everything within 150 feet of him. After 5 rounds, nonmagical fires up to the size of a campfire are quenched. Water freezes within 1 minute. Spells that protect against cold are subjected to an immediate dispel magic (at +10 spellcasting ability) when within 150 feet of Boreas. Wind Form: Boreas can shift between his humanoid body and a body made of wind and mist as an action; he can never be forced to shift forms. In wind form, he can use a whirlwind blast attack and use his spells, but no weapon attack. Truesight reveals both forms at once. Freedom of the Wind: Locks, shackles, ropes, and other bindings cannot hold Boreas. Innate Spellcasting: Boreas’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: create water, detect magic, guidance, invisibility, polymorph, speak with animals, true seeing, wind wall 3/day each: call lightning, control weather, cure wounds, dispel magic, ice storm, lesser restoration 1/day each: chain lightning, earthquake, finger of death, heal, shapechange, wall of ice, word of recall Regeneration: The avatar of Boreas regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the avatar of Boreas takes fire damage, this trait does not function at the start of its next turn. The avatar of Boreas dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and does not regenerate. Actions Multiattack: Boreas makes 4 spear attacks, or 4 longbow attacks, or 2 whirlwind blasts. Ice Spear (Humanoid Form): Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 11 (1d8 + 7) piercing damage plus 17 (5d6) cold damage. North Wind Longbow: Ranged Weapon Attack : +12 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit : 10 (1d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) cold damage. Whirlwind Blast (Wind Form Only): Ranged Spell Attack : +11 to hit, range 50 ft., one target. Hit : 37 (5d12 + 5) slashing damage. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Ice Spear: Boreas makes an ice spear attack. North Wind’s Glare: Boreas freezes a foe with a look. One creature within 60 feet that the avatar of Boreas can see must make a successful DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be petrified until the start of the avatar’s next turn. Whirlwind Movement (Costs 2 Actions): Boreas erupts into an icy whirlwind. Mundane and magical light sources alike within 20 feet are automatically extinguished. Each creature within 20 feet of the avatar must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) cold damage. The avatar can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: elemental
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

