# Brachavyrm

**description**: The loathsome brachavyrm is a creature of nightmares that prowls the fens, jungles, and marshlands of the Abyss. This demon resembles a giant 20-foot long, slime-coated, segmented worm with a maw ridged with sharp teeth. Its midsection splits into two tails, each ending with a wicked-looking stinger. Pairs of emaciated arms ending in clawed hands extend grotesquely from its segmented body and function as the creature's legs. Arm Collector . The brachavyrm is a solitary predator that hunts for mortal humanoids. Each time a brachavyrm consumes a humanoid, a pair of arms will sprout from the sides of its elongated body. As the brachavyrm consumes more prey, more arms are created. But these arms wither and die after a short period, causing the brachavyrm to constantly hunt for more humanoids. Versatile Predator. In combat, the brachavyrm first spits a line of saliva from its maw towards its target. The saliva instantly hardens into sticky, web-like filaments upon contact with air, and can entangle a target. Once a creature is ensnared, the brachavyrm lunges at it and quickly impales it with its twin stingers. After the venom is injected, the demon wraps its body around the victim, constricting it at the same time that its multiple clawed arms dig and tear through its flesh. Finally, the fiend bites the helpless prey and slowly swallows it whole. Traits Body Arms. The brachavyrm gains a pair of arms each time it consumes a humanoid creature. For every five pairs of humanoid arms the brachavyrm has, its speed is increased by 5 feet. A pair of arms wither and die after a month it was created. Spider Climb. The brachavyrm can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Actions Multiattack. The brachavyrm makes one Bite attack, one Constrict attack, and two Tail Stinger attacks. It can replace its Bite attack with Swallow or Web Spray, if available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the brachavyrm can't bite another target. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Huge or smaller creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 19) if the brachavyrm isn't already constricting a creature, and the target is restrained until this grapple ends. Tail Stingers. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned. Swallow. The brachavyrm makes one Bite attack against a Medium or smaller target it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target is swallowed, and the grapple ends. A swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the brachavyrm, and it takes 11 (2d10) acid damage at the start of each of the brachavyrm's turns. If the brachavyrm takes 20 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the brachavyrm must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of the brachavyrm. If the brachavyrm dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone. If a swallowed creature dies and the creature is a humanoid, the corpse's body is consumed and a pair of arms sprout from the brachavyrm's body. When this happens, the creature can only be restored to life only by means of a resurrection spell or greater. Web Spray (Recharge 5–6). The brachavyrm spits webbing in a line that is 30 feet long and 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained by webbing. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 15 Strength check, escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 10, 5 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

