# Brain Barnacle

**description**: Brain barnacles are a particularly insipid parasitic worm that feeds on its host's memories as they form. In order to avoid detection, they appear to be a benign barnacle-like growth on the host's skin, typically just behind the ear, and only consume tiny portions of the forming memories. The host's brain reinterprets these memory gaps, causing them to live out a slightly altered reality. These alterations typically eventually drive the host mad, and when the host dies, the brain barnacle consumes its nervous tissue, growing into a pod-like structure inside its brain. This pod serves as a sort of egg sac from which new brain barnacles will spawn. Servants of Supreme Sapience. Brain barnacles often serve other more powerful aberrations of psychic capabilities, though they have also been known to serve powerful wizards. When acting on their own, they consume memories seemingly at random, leading to the rapid deterioration of their host's understanding of reality. However, when serving a being with a specific intent for their host, they may only consume specific memories, often leading to a slower decline and a more easily manipulated individual for their masters to use as pawns in their grand schemes. Removing the Brain Barnacle. Even when discovered, removing a brain barnacle from its host is a difficult matter. First, the host must be unconscious to prevent the brain barnacle from using the host to either flee or fight off the host's wouldbe saviors. Second, the surgeon must be careful to remove the brain barnacle without killing it or damaging the host's nervous system further. This requires a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Medicine) check. On a failed check, the host's Intelligence and Charisma scores are reduced to 1. The creature can’t cast spells, activate magic items, understand language, or communicate in any intelligible way. The creature can, however, identify its friends, follow them, and even protect them. This effect can be ended by a greater restoration, heal, or wish spell. On a success, the brain barnacle is removed, and may attempt to take over the surgeon's body, or the body of any other creature within range. Tactics. The brain barnacle is not an especially Dangerous II foe on its own, but because of its ability to alter its host's perception of reality, it can be exceptionally deadly when it possesses a powerful host. If its host is slain and it is not safe for the brain barnacle to remain in place to consume the host's nervous tissue, the brain barnacle will attempt to flee the body, slithering away into the surrounding environment and making use of its small size to hide from its hunters' sight. Traits Brainsense. The brain barnacle is automatically aware of any creature with an Intelligence score of 2 or higher within 120 feet of it, and can pinpoint its location. A creature under the effects of a mindblank spell is immune to this ability. Guardian Host. When the brain barnacle or its mission comes under threat, it can take control of its host. The brain barnacle controls its host during combat as though they were the same creature, except that the host's Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores are replaced by the brain barnacle's. When combat ends, the host believes whatever reality it can most easily rationalize for why it has no recollection of the fight, and why any outcomes it is aware of happened. Tiny Aberration. The brain barnacle can enter another creatures' space and stop there, and does not provoke opportunity attacks for movement. Additionally, it can fit through any hole at least 1 centimeter in diameter. The brain barnacle does not need to breathe, but dies of starvation if it is without a host for more than 30 days. Actions Brain Latch. The brain barnacle attempts to burrow under the skin and connect to the central nervous system of a creature it shares a space with. That creature must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or become the brain barnacle's host.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Aberration1. The brain barnacle can enter another creatures' space and stop there
- Alignment: and does not provoke opportunity attacks for movement. Additionally
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 1/8/2024

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

