# Brainmuncher

**description**: Munchy ist ein ekcellent helper round ze bar. Zey know ekzactly when folks vant another drink und kan relay ze messages to all ze servers vhen it gets really busy. Unfortunately, zey often get distracted by ze patrons’ pets… Ve haf had less ov ein problem mit rodents recently, though. — Humperdink, Never Thirsty Type: Aberration Creature Component: Mind Flayer Bonus Tamer Improvement: Detect Thoughts and +2 Hit Dice Removing the brainmuncher’s innate desire to eat brains entirely has proven quite difficult, though the range of potential victims has been limited to cute and furry pets. Despite this flaw, they are useful companions, able to link minds telepathically and shelter folks from hangovers and psychic assaults alike. If any of the brainmuncher’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the brainmuncher’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the brainmuncher’s Intelligence modifier Monster Trainer Detect Thoughts Prerequisite: become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion) The brainmuncher is always under the effect of the detect thoughts spell, with a range equal to the range of its telepathy. In addition, the range of its telepathy increases to 60 feet. The brainmuncher can communicate slowly via thoughts and emotions if it doesn’t share a language with a creature. Teleport Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the brainmuncher teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. After it uses this bonus action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Creature Sense Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer, Detect Thoughts Type: Active (action), passive (companion) As an action, the brainmuncher expands its telepathic ability. For the next minute, the brainmuncher is aware of the presence of creatures within 300 feet of it that have an Intelligence score of 4 or higher. It knows the distance and direction to each creature, as well as each creature’s Intelligence score, but can’t sense anything else about it. The brainmuncher must maintain its concentration on this effect as if it were concentrating on a spell; if it loses concentration, the effect ends. After the brainmuncher uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. In addition, the range of its telepathy and the damage die of its Tentacles increase to 90 feet and a d10, respectively. When the brainmuncher’s tamer reaches 5th level in the tamer class, the damage die increases to 2d6. Magic Resilience I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The brainmuncher gains a +2 bonus to saving throws it makes against spells and other magical effects. Mind Blast I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the brainmuncher magically emits psychic energy in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic damage. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is stunned until the start of its next turn. After the brainmuncher uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the brainmuncher’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 17 (5d6). Psionic Shield I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (reaction), Passive (companion) The brainmuncher gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t incapacitated or wearing armour. When a creature within range of the brainmuncher’s telepathy takes psychic damage, the brainmuncher can use its reaction to halve the psychic damage taken by that creature. Telepathic Hub Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Creature Sense Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) As an action, the brainmuncher can link the minds of up to 10 creatures that are within the radius of its telepathy for 1 hour, or until the brainmuncher returns to its vessel. While within this radius, those creatures can communicate telepathically with one another. After the brainmuncher uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. The brainmuncher can hear all telepathic communications originating from or directed towards any creature within the radius of its telepathy. In addition, the range of its telepathy and the damage die of its Tentacles attack increase to 120 feet and 2d8, respectively. When the tamer reaches 13th and 17th level in the tamer class, this damage die increases to 2d10 and 2d12, respectively. Magic Resilience II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Magic Resilience I Type: Passive (companion) The brainmuncher gains a +2 bonus to saving throws it makes against spells and other magical effects. This is in addition to the bonus from Magic Resilience I. Mind Blast II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Mind Blast I Type: Passive (companion) The damage of the brainmuncher’s Mind Blast action increases to 24 (7d6), and the size of the cone increases to 60 feet. The brainmuncher gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the brainmuncher’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage of this actionincreases to 35 (10d6). Psionic Shield II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Psionic Shield I Type: Active (reaction), Passive (companion) The brainmuncher gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t incapacitated or wearing armour. This is in addition to the bonus from Psionic Shield I. The brainmuncher can detect whenever a creature within range of its telepathy makes a Wisdom saving throw, and can use its reaction to give that creature advantage on the saving throw. Domination Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Telepathic Hub Type: Active (action) As an action, the brainmuncher attempts to dominate the mind of a creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the brainmuncher for 1 minute. If the brainmuncher or creatures that are friendly to the brainmuncher are fighting the target, it has advantage on the saving throw. A creature whose CR is higher than half the brainmuncher’s tamer’s level in the tamer class (rounded up) automatically succeeds on this saving throw. The brainmuncher can telepathically communicate with and issue commands to the creature at any range while it is conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. If the creature completes the order and doesn’t receive further direction from the brainmuncher, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability. Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new Wisdom saving throw against the effect. If the saving throw succeeds, the effect ends. This spell ends early when the brainmuncher is dismissed. After the brainmuncher uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: abberation
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

