# Bredbeddle

**description**: In their true forms, bredbeddles are headless giants who stand about fifteen feet tall. Forever searching for their missing heads, they are drawn to populous lands, where they decapitate passersby and magically adopt their victims’ forms. Although bredbeddles have no traditional sensory organs of their own, they are keenly aware of their surroundings. Some lurk along dark country lanes in their monstrous true forms. Others walk disguised among crowds, dropping their facades only long enough to waylay a stranger and lop off their head. Immortal Wanderers. Bredbeddles don’t age, and even when slain, their bodies reform a few days later. Long ago, bredbeddles were giants who stood high among the nobility of giantkind. But when they declared themselves rulers of all giantkind, their kin thwarted the coup and beheaded the bredbeddles. Now these fallen nobles search the world for their missing heads, each wielding the axe that decapitated them. Many claim their heads are kept for safekeeping in some fire giant’s cellar, believing they’ll be returned after an indeterminate period of good behavior (which the bredbeddles have thus far not exhibited). Traits Headless (True Form Only). The bredbeddle can’t be blinded or deafened. Rejuvenation. If the bredbeddle dies, they return to life in 1d6 months with all their hit points. If their body was destroyed, it reforms in an unoccupied space nearest to where they died. Only a wish spell or finding and destroying the bredbeddle’s true head can prevent this trait from functioning. Actions Multiattack. The bredbeddle makes two Executioner’s Axe attacks. Executioner’s Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) slashing damage. Beheading Strike (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one Large or smaller Giant or Humanoid with a head. Hit: 40 (6d10 + 7) slashing damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the bredbeddle cuts off the target’s head, which lands at the target’s feet. A creature beheaded in this way remains alive unless reduced to 0 hit points, but they are blinded and deafened, and they can’t speak. A creature can use an action to place a beheaded creature’s head back on their neck, reattaching the head and ending the effect. A beheaded creature dies if they are separated from their head for more than 24 hours. Bonus Actions Get a Head. The bredbeddle picks up a severed Giant or Humanoid head within 15 feet of them and places it on the bredbeddle’s neck. The bredbeddle then polymorphs into that Giant or Humanoid creature. While polymorphed, the bredbeddle’s statistics change as follows: They can speak. They lose their Headless trait. Their size changes to match the creature whose head they bear. They can see normally, and they gain any special senses the creature’s head had. Any equipment they are wearing or carrying temporarily changes to match their size, but the equipment’s statistics do not change. The bredbeddle reverts to their true form if they die, if their head is removed, or after 24 hours. When they revert, the head falls off and can’t be reattached to the bredbeddle. A creature who can reach the bredbeddle can use an action to make a DC 18 Strength (Athletics) check, removing the head from the bredbeddle on a success. Toss Head (Polymorphed Form Only). The bredbeddle removes their head, reverting to their true form, and throws the head at a creature they can see within 60 feet of them. The head lands in the target’s space, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

