# Bronze Bureaucrat

**description**: “To interfere with tact and refinement is a skill of the mind, while the enervation it inflicts is a flaw of the flesh.” The intricate system of bureaucracy in Cyherested is confusing, yet there is an obvious constant that hasn’t changed for decades; the Bronze Bureaucrat. He is currently the Chief Justice of Cyherested, responsible for presiding over the Prime Court, which has the final say on all cases. Although genderless, the Bronze Bureaucrat prefers to be called “he”. He has a slender build, engraved decorations on his plates, and a deep voice. Bronze’s Story Assembled in 479, the Bronze Bureaucrat has been sentient for 60 years. Originally called C778-31E, he was assembled as a worker in an automaton facility and although he knew he was different, he kept his head down and did his work to survive, hiding his true nature in the assembly line where other automatons were constructed. For him, building other automatons felt like what a flesh creature would feel if they sewed together limbs and organs. He endured this horror for two years. In 481, the army tried to overthrow the government. This aggression from the army inspired others to act, triggering a chain of events that included sentient automatons advocating for their right to exist as citizens. These bloodwork automatons organized protests in automaton facilities. This sparked hope for the automatons in hiding, and showed the Bronze Bureaucrat that he had not been as alone as he had thought; there were others like him. During the protests, the automatons saw that the army administration would never grant them the rights they sought, and so they joined the ranks of Cyherested citizens trying to bring this administration down. The Bronze Bureaucrat was one of the key players in the epic fight against the army. After successfully stopping the attempt, a new policy, which offered citizenship to sentient automatons, was accepted, and several political figures befriended the Bronze Bureaucrat to show their support. Over the years, more politicians have sought his friendship to gain the support of the public. He used his political connections to climb the ladder within the bureaucratic system to gain a seat in a prestigious position so as to better represent the automaton community. Thus, he changed his name from C778-31E to the Bronze Bureaucrat. Because of his direct and just approach to any and all problems, he gained the support of the public every time he rose in position, and eventually became the Chief Justice. Bronze’s Goals The Bronze Bureaucrat wished to represent the automaton community in government, and pass policies for their welfare. He also aims to preserve his just and unprejudiced approach to everything and everyone. Roleplaying Bronze He is calm and direct, which can be seen as stoic by some. However, he is actually quite approachable, loves small talk and gets excited while talking about anything other than bureaucracy. He chooses his words extremely carefully and tries to be as loyal as he can to the rules of Cyherested. He always tries to help those who approach him with sincerity. Bronze in Combat In combat, he tries to pacify the targets without fatally harming them, and does everything in his power to protect innocent bystanders from harm.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: construct
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

