# Bugbear Dread Eye of Grankhul

**description**: The dread eye is a devious and skilled priest-assassin who worships Grankhul, the bugbear deity of hunting, stealth, and surprise. The dread eye serves its tribe as its inquisitor and executioner. It never attacks in the open and rarely without the element of surprise, often taking advantage of its foes' inability to see in the dark. The dread eye specializes in spells and abilities that confuse, disorient, and incapacitate its foes in order to set them up for a quick kill. Traits Assassinate. During its first turn, the bugbear has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn. Any hit the bugbear scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit. Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the bugbear hits with it (included in the attack). Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the bugbear fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spell Penetration. When the bugbear casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The bugbear deals an extra 10 (3d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the bugbear that isn't incapacitated and the bugbear doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. Darkness (Recharges 4-6). The bugbear casts darkness . Spellcasting. The bugbear casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks): At will: resistance, thaumaturgy, toll the dead (2d8 or 2d12) 1/day each: blindness/deafness, cure wounds, hold person, ray of sickness, silence, spirit shroud, vampiric touch Bonus Actions Ever-Open Eyes (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The bugbear gains blindsight 60 ft. for 1 minute. Shadow Step. While in dim light or darkness, the bugbear teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. It then has advantage on the first melee attack it makes before the end of the turn. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. The bugbear halves the damage that it takes from an attack that hits it. The bugbear must be able to see the attacker. Legendary Actions The bugbear can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The bugbear regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Darkness. The bugbear casts darkness , if available. Move. The bugbear moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Glaring Eye of Grankhul. The bugbear turns its gaze toward one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become paralyzed until the end of the bugbear's next turn. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The bugbear makes a melee or ranged attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Goblinoid)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

