# Bullywug Maw of Ramenos

**description**: This monstrous, towering bullywug is blessed with the essence of Ramenos, a primordial bullywug deity. The Maw of Ramenos appears as an 8-foot tall bullywug with an oversized mouth, enabling it to swallow its foes and unleash a thunderous croak. Traits Amphibious. The bullywug can breathe air and water. Speak with Frogs and Toads. The bullywug can communicate simple concepts to frogs and toads when it speaks in Bullywug. Standing Leap. The bullywug's long jump is up to 20 feet and its high jump is up to 10 feet, with or without a running start. Swamp Camouflage. The bullywug has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in swampy terrain. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 13) if it is a Medium or smaller creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the bullywug can't use its bite or tongue attack on another target. Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (2d6) poison damage, and the target must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the target is pulled to a space within 5 feet of the bullywug, which can use a bonus action to make a Bite attack against the target. Swallow. The bullywug makes a Bite attack against a Medium or smaller creature it is grappling. If the attack hits, the creature is swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the bullywug, and it takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of the bullywug's turns. The bullywug can have only one creature swallowed at a time. If the bullywug takes 10 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the bullywug must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate the swallowed creature, which falls prone in a space within 5 feet of the bullywug. If the bullywug dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone. Stunning Croak (Recharge 5-6). The bullywug emits a magical stupefying croak. Each creature not a bullywug within 20 feet of the bullywug and can hear the bullywug must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. A stunned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The bullywug can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The bullywug regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Leap. The bullywug moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. The bullywug can move through Large or smaller creatures and objects during this movement but can't end its turn inside a creature's or object's space. Tongue. The bullywug makes a Tongue attack. Maw (Costs 2 Actions). The bullywug makes a Bite attack or uses Swallow.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Humanoid (Bullywug)
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

