# Bungisngis Shaman

**description**: Bungisngis (Boongis-ngis) Distantly related to both the cyclops and troll, the bungisngis is a 14-foot tall giant with a squat, heavyset body. Moss, rocks, and petrified wood stick like barnacles on the skin of the bungisngis, running from the back of its large, talon-like claws to its entire upper back, which enables it to blend in its surroundings effortlessly. A singular eye lies at the center of its noseless head, and two large sharp tusks protrude from the side of its mouth, which is full of jagged, yellowish teeth. Because of the size of its tusks and teeth and its inability to breathe through its nostrils, the bungisngis' mouth is never fully closed, as if stuck in a permanent, obnoxious-looking grin. The bungisngis lumbers about like a quadruped, not unlike a gorilla, leading with its knuckles. Cowardly Brutes. The bungisngis is incredibly strong, offset only by its limited vision, rudimentary intellect, and cowardice. A bungisngis is a bully and enjoys toying with its food but will flee combat when it realizes it cannot overpower its prey. There are many tales of how dimwitted a bungisngis is and how a single cut from a dagger has sent a bungisngis scampering away. Stories of crafty adventurers able to outwit or even bluff a bungisngis are common in forest-edge taverns. However, these stories are very few compared to the ones about those who were foolish enough to think they could take on a bungisngis head-on and ended up as a meal. Horrid Giggling. What makes the bungisngis dangerous is not just because of its ferocious ability to butcher its prey with its vicious tusks and claws, but rather for its other unique characteristic. When agitated or hungry, especially during combat, the bungisngis emits a noise from its throat that resembles a vulgar giggling or snickering sound. In fact, this is where the giant gets its name from because that is what it sounds like to those who have heard it and were lucky enough to escape and tell about it. The absurd and maddening giggling has a magical effect, causing anyone close enough to hear it to collapse into fits of uncontrollable laughter, enabling the bungisngis to easily maul the incapacitated victim. Gluttonous Giants. The bungisngis is an exceedingly rapacious creature. When hungry, the bungisngis will shamble about in the woods, foraging for anything edible-looking it can eat. This means the bungisngis will eat any creature smaller than itself that it can beat into submission. A single bungisngis can lay waste to a forest's ecosystem in a matter of weeks. When starving, it is not above raiding even well-defended settlements if it can steal a few cattle before getting seriously injured. Woodland Lurkers. The bungisngis is native to the Feywild and found in areas with the most tangled forests and peaty bogs. In the Material Plane, the bungisngis tends to live in gloomy forest-covered mountains, dense jungles, and dismal swamps where it has no competition. The bungisngis seldom makes a lair, as it merely rests in the first secluded spot it can find anywhere in its territory, where it simply curls itself up in a ball, ending up looking just like any other huge moss-covered boulder. A bungisngis is rarely found with its kind, as they tend to compete with each other for resources. Instead, it tends to share the company of unintelligent beasts such as bears, tigers, and wolves which it treats as pets as long as the food isn't scarce. If it is with a group of its kind, it is likely with its mate and siblings, often led by a shaman. Due to its cowardly nature, it is not uncommon for a bungisngis to be bullied into submission and become enslaved guards and servants to more powerful or intelligent beings such as other giants, dragons, hags, or oni that live in the same gloomy woodland areas the bungisngis prefers. Traits Charge. If the bungisngis moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Tusk attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 10 (3d6) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Horrid Giggling. The bungisngis incessantly emits a magical, infectious giggling sound. When a creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the bungisngis and is able to hear the bungisngis, the creature must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, succeeding automatically if it has an Intelligence of 4 or lower. On a failed saving throw, the creature is incapacitated for 1 minute as it is overcome by a fit of laughter. At the end of each of its turns, the creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the bungisngis's Horrid Giggling for the next 24 hours. Poor Depth Perception. The bungisngis has disadvantage on any attack roll against a target more than 30 feet away. Stone Camouflage. The bungisngis has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. Actions Multiattack. The bungisngis makes three attacks: one with its Tusk and two with its Claws. Tusk. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) slashing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) slashing damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Spellcasting. The bungisngis casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks): At will: druidcraft, guidance, mending, produce flame (2d8) 1/day each: erupting earth, healing word, ice storm, lightning bolt, meld into stone, spike growth, stoneskin*, thunderwave *The bungisngis casts this spell on itself before combat.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

