# Buso

**description**: Buso (Boo-soh) The buso, also called bhuts in other regions, is a malevolent and rapacious aswang with gluttonous tendencies. It is skinny and twitchy in humanoid form, with an unusually large and foul-smelling mouth and bloodshot eyes. In its fiend form, the buso resembles a ghoulish creature with leathery skin, wild, unkempt hair, flat nostrils, and an oversized mouth filled with rows of jagged teeth. Its gangly body has long, skinny limbs that end in large clawed hands and feet. The buso moves with a loping, feral gait. Buso Curse. A humanoid becomes afflicted by the buso curse in four ways: One, by being cursed by a barrow hag. Second, after being bitten by a tigbanua. Third, by being born into it. Lastly, when a humanoid who has lived as a cannibal enters into a pact with Orcus, the Prince of Undeath. Living Ghouls. While busos will eat fresh meat, they prefer eating carrion because to them it tastes like a delicacy. By day, busos work as gravediggers, cemetery groundskeepers, embalmers, and priests, allowing them easy access to cadavers. At night, they act like ghouls, congregating as packs and prowling catacombs, cemeteries, and graveyards. They create a disturbing cacophony of chattering sounds with their teeth and claws, which can instill fear in anyone who hears it. They dig out the dead and ravenously eat their decomposing flesh, drink whatever blood is left, and suck the marrows from their bones. There are rumors of an aristocratic family of busos that host a party every full moon. They entertain their guests with fine cuisine, orgies, and other hedonistic indulgences during the day. By nightfall, the family reveal their true nature, slaughter their guests, and dine on their corpses in a lavish banquet hall. Aswang (Uh-swung) An aswang is an accursed humanoid that transforms into a fiend. In its natural form, an aswang resembles a typical humanoid. At night, it can change its shape into a cunning, demonic predator. It hunts other humanoids and feasts on their blood, organs, or life force. Aswang Curse. A humanoid creature can be afflicted by the aswang curse after it willingly made or was tricked into making a dark pact with a Demon Lord, sometimes through the actions of a hag. One can also be born into it if one or both of its parents are aswangs. Casting remove curse, greater restoration , or similar spell can free a humanoid of the curse, but a natural born aswang can only be freed of the curse with a wish . An aswang can either resist its curse or welcome it. By fighting the curse, an aswang keeps its normal behavior and personality while in its natural form. It can try to live its life as it wants but must constantly stave off the urge to feed. However, at nights of the full moon, the hunger becomes too great, and the curse overcomes the individual, forcing it to transform into its fiendish form. An aswang driven to this state becomes ravenous and will not stop hunting until it has fed. Each night that it fails to feed in its fiend form, it gains 1 level of exhaustion. A genuinely depraved individual, or someone corrupted by it, sees the aswang curse as a gift and, over time, masters the ability to change into a fiend. However, an aswang can only transform at night and retain its demonic form until dawn, at which point it automatically transforms back to its humanoid form. Masters of Deception. Aswangs hide in plain sight, living amongst normal folk and often taking up occupations like butchers, hunters, gravediggers, taxidermists, and trappers to help divert suspicions of why their homes may sometimes smell of carrion and death. They insert themselves into humanoid communities and earn their neighbors' trust through charm, friendliness, and generosity. They avoid getting physically close to an individual, though, because if one looks directly at their eyes, they will discover that their reflection is upside down. Aswangs tend to prey on members of society that no one will miss if they suddenly disappear. If such targets are unavailable, they travel to another community, settlement, or location that is far from their homes. They won't risk feeding near where they live. Anyone who becomes suspicious of them, or sees them in their fiendish form, is always dealt with immediately for fear of rousing an organized mob. A successful clan of aswangs can live in the outskirts of town, preying on its citizens for years without getting caught. If things start to go awry, the aswangs will not risk staying. They will leave as soon as they can and establish themselves in another community to begin anew. Night Stalkers. Aswangs are careful, patient, and stealthy hunters, often choosing targets that are defenseless or weak. Typically during the day, aswangs pick and mark their target and identify where they live. At night after they transform, they stalk their prey and bide their time until they can attack when their target is most vulnerable. This means most of their assaults happen when their target is alone or asleep. They often just leave the bodies of their victims where they are to avoid the risk of getting caught. Because their kills bear specific types of wounds commonly attributed to ghouls, lycanthropes, or vampires, they aren't worried suspicions about their presence will be brought up. Aswang Weaknesses. Aswangs, much like vampires, have several weaknesses. They find the pungent smell of garlic repulsive, and the chemical properties of pure salt sicken it. While an aswang can resist most blows, weapons made from a stingray's barbed tail, even simple ones, can hurt them normally. Because they become fiends while transformed, they are susceptible to attacks that specifically harm fiends, such as holy water. If an aswang fails its saving throw against a Dispel Evil and Good spell, it reverts to its humanoid form and can't transform for 1 minute. Traits Unnerving Chatter (Fiend Form Only). Any creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of at least 3 busos that aren't incapacitated and can hear the busos must make a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the busos for 1 minute. The frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the buso’s Unnerving Chatter for the next 24 hours. Keen Hearing and Smell. The buso has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Actions Multiattack. The buso makes one attack with its Dagger (humanoid form) or two attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Claws (fiend form). Bite (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage, and the buso gains temporary hit points equal to the damage dealt. Claws. (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) slashing damage. Dagger (Humanoid Form Only). Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Change Shape. The buso polymorphs into its Fiend Form or back into its true form, which is humanoid. In Fiend Form, the buso appears as a ghoul-like humanoid. Its statistics, other than its Speed, damage, and damage resistances, are the same in each form. It reverts to its true form at dawn or if it dies. The buso can only use this action at night. While transformed, the buso also gains the following features: The buso's creature type changes to fiend. The buso has advantage on Strength and Dexterity checks and Strength and Dexterity saving throws. When the buso makes a melee weapon attack, it gains a +3 bonus to the damage roll (included in the attack). The buso can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. If the buso starts its turn within 10 feet of a pound of salt or garlic, it becomes poisoned until the start of its next turn. Bonus Actions Shadow Step (Fiend Form Only). While in dim light or darkness, the buso teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. It then has advantage on the first melee attack it makes before the end of the turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

