# Butcher

**description**: Cursed-bloods are brave beyond reason, beings willing to go to dangerous lengths to protect their family; butchers are part of the many that have sacrificed more than their lives to defend their loved ones. Lunar Rebirth. For a cursed-blood, removing their mask causes excruciating pain, akin to the agony of being scalped, before causing a horrific death. One dangerous way of acquiring power is for cursed-bloods to, as they approach the end of their life, perform such an act on a night where the Blood Moon is high. All die immediately, their hearts withering; but for a chosen few, a horrific rebirth is granted. Willful subjects to the twisted influence of the astral body, their flesh contorts and mutates in ways that defy the natural order; the lost twin embedded in their chest is resurrected, and its new eye opens to survey the world from within their abominable form. The transformation isn’t without cost, as the cursed-blood’s mind fractures and its memories fade away, leaving behind only a fierce bloodlust that compels them to slaughter the aberrant. Eternal Hunt. Now consumed by eldritch power and stripped of their intellect, they are immune to the creeping tendrils of madness that would drive others to insanity. Before their rebirth is complete, an elder of the tribe bestows upon them a red cloth that covers their face, so that the actions from their new body may not tarnish the previous life they led. The newly birthed butcher soon begins their hunt, relentlessly cleaving the beasts that plague the city, though in their mindless zealotry, they often strike down even those that have yet to transform. Traits Aberrant Eye. The butcher has an eye in the middle of its torso that it uses to dispel magic. The eye is closed unless the butcher uses its bonus action to open it, or uses its Dispelling Gaze. At the start of its next turn, it can choose to close the eye (no action required). While closed, the eye is considered behind total cover and is immune to all damage. While opened, the eye has AC 18, 15 HP, and no resistances or immunities, and the butcher has truesight to a range of 60 feet. Any damage dealt to the eye is also dealt to the butcher. If the eye is destroyed, the butcher is blinded and can’t use its Dispelling Gaze. Actions Multiattack. The butcher makes two cleaver attacks. Cleaver. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage or 18 (2d12 + 5) slashing damage if used with two hand. It can only change its grip at the start of each of its turns. Bonus Actions Dispelling Gaze. The butcher opens the eye on its chest to cast dispel magic . The butcher's spellcasting ability for this spell is Charisma. Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage and the butcher can choose to push the target back up to 10 feet in a straight line if the target is Large or smaller. The butcher can only make this attack if it has a free hand. Reactions Parry. The butcher adds 2 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the butcher must see the attacker, and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: humanoid and monstrosity
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

