# Byakhee

**description**: Byakhee are inhuman servants of the Great Old Ones and the Outer Gods whom they serve. They are a race of interstellar predators, vaguely humanoid in shape but prone to frequent mutation and aberrant physiology, both internally and externally. Their motion is hideous to behold, with the rhythmic flapping of its wings clashing with the spasmodic thrashing of disjointed limbs ending in cruel claws and its scabrous tail dripping dark venom. Its skin seems to split in a welter of weeping sores and creases, as though its inward parts were ready to burst. Byakhee are always winged, with a generally humanoid head and torso and at least four limbs. In some byakhee these are more akin to legs than arms and in some the opposite, and vestigial or accessory limbs are not at all unusual, but in all cases their appendages are tipped with cruel claws. Though bryka are most comfortable in the air, they typically have webbed digits to aid in swimming. Most byakhee have tails as well, sometimes long and sinuous and in others bulbous and insectoid, like the abdomen of a wasp. Those who have beheld the byakhee in person rarely describe them the same way, in part due to the grotesque variation these creatures exhibit, but also due to the fog of nightmares that inevitably follow in the wake of their advent. Mythos Minions. It is unknown whether byakhee originated on one of the home planets or prison worlds wherein the Great Old Ones are bound, or perhaps were refugees from a planet long since destroyed by the predations of world-devouring elder things, or perhaps have always been a star-spanning race and never a terrestrial one. What is certain is that as a race they are bound to the will of the Great Old Ones and their masters (especially Hastur the Unspeakable), and often compelled to answer the summons of earthly cultists calling upon their alien patrons for aid. Byakhee are strong flyers and may carry willing supplicants (as well as unwilling victims) far from their terrestrial home into the reaches of space and the dark places between and beyond the stars, though their passengers are best advized to have their own means of survival amid the rigors of space. Byakhee are willing warriors as well when called to serve, snatching up their victims and tearing them limb from limb or dropping them into gaping pits of toxic effluence that open in the byakhee's presence like rents in a reality that rebels against their alien presence. Star Scavenger. Byakhee are primarily carnivorous, preferring fresh blood and flesh. They are cruel beasts and enjoy stinging their prey with their mind-rotting venom and allowing their victim to descend into madness, giving themselves over to the byakhee for their feasting pleasure. However, byakhee are also scavengers, taking whatever nourishment they can find to fuel their long interplanetary and interstellar journeys. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration (mythos)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

