# Cacus Chieftain

**description**: The mighty cacus resembles a gigantic centaur-like creature, possessing the upper humanoid body of a fearsome fire giant and the lower body of a giant bull. Its eyes and horns glow like red-hot embers and its massive maul is wreathed in flames. Unrelenting Marauders. Caci (plural for cacus) are known for their aggressive and ruthless behavior. Their lives revolve around raiding and plundering, often attacking dwarven settlements and mining encampments to steal iron, steel, precious metals, and gemstones. When they aren't raiding, they build weapons and armor for their own use and for selling. Caci are reknowned blacksmiths and are sought by fire giants for their craftsmanship. Brutal Warriors. Caci prefer fighting with two-handed weapons, favoring the maul. They usually open combat by letting out a bloodcurdling roar that can strike fear into all who hear it before charging with their heads forward. Enemies are mercilessly gored by the caci' horns, and those that survive the initial onslaught are eventually trampled and crushed by their monstrous hooves. What makes caci even more dangerous is their ability to breathe fire and brimstone. Those that don't die instantly from the flames will likely perish terribly from smoke inhalation. Baphomet's Blacksmiths. Caci are usually encountered alone. However, a few form small tribes led by a priest and a chieftain. The priest, known as a forge shaman, has mystical knowledge of metallurgy and fire. The chieftain, typically the largest and most powerful one, rules the tribe with an iron fist. It is said that caci originated from a clan of fire giants Baphomet had hired to build weapons for his demonic army. To solidify their loyalty and mark them as his, Baphomet transformed them into half-bull monsters. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the cacus fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The cacus makes one Gore attack and one Maul attack. Alternatively, it can use its Hurl Flame twice. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) piercing damage. If the cacus moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the cacus can make one Hooves attack against it as a bonus action. Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 30 (6d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 31 (4d10 + 9) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The cacus exhales fire and brimstone in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature taking 52 (15d6) fire damage and is poisoned until the end of the cacus's next turn. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Bonus Actions Intimidating Roar (3/Day). The cacus lets out a bloodcurdling roar. Each creature within 30 feet of the cacus and able to hear the roar must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature is vulnerable to fire damage. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the cacus's Frightful Roar for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The cacus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The cacus regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The cacus moves up to its speed. Stomp (Costs 2 Actions). The cacus makes a Hooves attack. Pulverize (Costs 3 Actions). The cacus makes a Maul attack. If the attack hits, the target must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw or be be stunned for 1 minute. The target repeats the saving throw if it takes damage and at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

