# Caldera Kite

**description**: The long-bodied insect floats over the gurgling volcano and along the lava's path. As it flies, it extends a proboscis to gobble up creatures fleeing the molten rock or stranded by it. Caldera kites are giant, sky-bound insectoids that soar on updrafts emitted from volcanic activity, and they scavenge their territories for prey with their long proboscides. Due to its slow, meandering nature, airborne soot and toxic particles adhere to its body and wings, released from the minerals and natural gasses that burn up beneath it. Caldera kites lack feet and have adapted by developing internal air bladders that collect and maintain lighter-than-air gasses. Noxious Predators. Caldera kites are scavengers by preference, trolling the edges of the superheated landscapes they reside in for vegetation, dead or dying creatures, or scraps left behind by wayward explorers. But when the opportunity presents itself for a live meal, such as an unaware straggler in a mountain expedition, caldera kites eagerly swoop in for a bite. The toxic dust cloud that pervades the air around them obscures their approach, and they can further agitate the cloud and mix in some of their trapped gases to create a haze that withers everything it touches. Once prey has been thoroughly poisoned, a caldera kite aims to suck up the creature in its large proboscis and carry the victim off to the safety of the skies where it can enjoy its meal. Firesight. The caldera kite can see through areas obscured by fire, smoke, and fog without penalty. Flyby. The caldera kite doesn't provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach. Sulfuric Haze. A glittering haze emanates from the caldera kite within 10 feet of it. The haze moves with the caldera kite, lightly obscuring the area. If dispersed by a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour), the haze reappears at the start of the caldera kite's next turn. When a creature enters the haze's area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 7 (2d6) poison damage and is poisoned until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't poisoned. If a creature's saving throw is successful, it is immune to the Sulphuric Haze of all caldera kites for 1 minute. Actions Multiattack. The caldera kite makes two Wings attacks or one Wings attack and one Proboscis attack. Proboscis. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 17) if it is a Medium or smaller creature and the caldera kite doesn't have another creature grappled. Until this grapple ends, the creature is restrained, the caldera kite can automatically hit the target with its Proboscis, and the caldera kite can't make Proboscis attacks against other targets. Wings. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage and 7 (2d6) poison damage. Dust Cloud (Recharge 4-6). The caldera kite thrashes its body and releases stored toxic gases. Each creature within 20 feet of the caldera kite must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails the saving throw can't speak and is suffocating until it is no longer within 20 feet of the caldera kite.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

