# Canisphinx

**description**: The despicable canisphinx appears as a black-furred lion with a jackal's head and the wings of a falcon. It is a cunning and opportunistic predator, stalking its prey patiently and biding its time until it can attack by surprise. The canisphinx never engages an enemy unless it believes it has the upper hand. It also relishes toying and terrorizing weaker prey before killing it. Waste Dweller. The canisphinx prefers to live in arid grasslands, bushlands, deserts, and open savannas. It makes its lair in caves, ruins, and rock outcroppings with high vantage points where it can survey its vast territory. The canisphinx is crepuscular, most active at dawn and dusk. Monstrous Allies. Canisphinxes are usually solitary hunters, but they can also be encountered as a mated pair. In some instances, they will work with jackalweres and lamias. Mummy lords have also employed canisphinxes as scouts. Canisphinxes hate opinicuses and attack them on sight. Sphinxes Not all sphinxes are divine guardians tasked to guard gods' treasures. Some sphinxes, like the canisphinx, crocosphinx, dracosphinx, luposphinx, taurusphinx, and the threskisphinx, are free to do as they please. They sometimes work as mercenaries, offering their services to powerful entities. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The sphinx has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Magic Weapons. The sphinx's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The sphinx makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage. Howl (2/Day). The sphinx emits a magical howl. Each time it howls before finishing a long rest, the howl becomes more potent, as detailed below. Each creature within 200 feet of the sphinx and able to hear the howl must make a saving throw. First Howl. Each enemy creature that fails a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Second Howl. Each enemy creature that fails a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature is paralyzed and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The sphinx can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The sphinx regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw Attack. The sphinx makes one Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The sphinx magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Raking Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The sphinx moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and makes two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

