# Caprisoul

**description**: Cappy has saved me more than once when I ran out of healing potions in some dank dungeon. When it comes to caprisouls, just make sure you keep them fed and watch out for the pointy bit if you don’t. — Heliana, Drained Type: Undead Creature Component: Wight and stirge Bonus Tamer Improvement: Spirit Transfer and +2 Hit Dice A glowing caprisoul is a safe caprisoul; those ones have fed recently and are still digesting their life force meal. With a long, narrow proboscis capable of finding chinks in most armour, a caprisoul pierces more than the body when it attacks; it finds its way into the target’s very essence. And, shortly after, that essence finds its way into the caprisoul. A well trained caprisoul can transfer this life force back to its owner, or unleash it in a psyche-devastating ray. If any of the caprisoul’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the caprisoul’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the caprisoul’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer Spirit Transfer Prerequisite: become a tamer’s companion Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) When the caprisoul hits with its Soul Drain attack, it stores life force in a pool of soul power equal to the necrotic damage dealt, which has a maximum capacity equal to 10 plus the number of tamer levels the caprisoul’s tamer has. As an action, the caprisoul can empty this pool of soul power into one willing creature within 5 feet of it, causing that creature to regain hit points equal to the pool’s value. While its pool has life force in it, the caprisoul emits dim light in a 10-foot radius. The caprisoul’s Death Burst trait deals additional damage equal to the value in its pool of soul power when it dies. The pool of soul power resets to 0 when the caprisoul’s tamer finishes a long rest. After the caprisoul has used this action twice, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Immaterial Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the caprisoul turns partially incorporeal. Until the start of its next turn, it has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. After the caprisoul uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Quick I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The caprisoul’s flying speed increases by 10 feet and it gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Soulbeam I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer, Spirit Transfer Type: Active (action) As an action, the caprisoul unleashes all of the energy stored in its pool of soul power. Each creature in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long line must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes psychic damage equal to the value in the caprisoul’s pool on a failure, or half as much damage on a success. The pool then resets to zero. When the caprisoul’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, this action deals an additional 7 (2d6) psychic damage. After the caprisoul has used this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Flyby Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The caprisoul doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. Soul Siphon Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The caprisoul’s Soul Drain attack deals an additional 1d6 necrotic damage (7 (2d6) total). This increases by 1d6 when its tamer reaches 11th level in the tamer class (10 (3d6) total) and 17th level in the tamer class (14 (4d6) total) Quick II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Quick I Type: Passive (companion) The caprisoul’s flying speed increases by 10 feet and it gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. This is in addition to the increase and bonus from Quick I. Uncanny Dodge Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Active (reaction) When an attacker that the caprisoul can see hits it with an attack, the caprisoul can use its reaction to halve the attack’s damage against it. Incorporeality Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Immaterial Type: Passive (companion) While the caprisoul is under the effect of its Immaterial trait, it can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. If it ends its turn inside an object, it takes 5 (1d10) force damage and is shunted to the nearest unoccupied space. Soulbeam II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Soulbeam I Type: Passive (companion) The length of the caprisoul’s Soulbeam line increases to 90 feet, and the caprisoul gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. The action deals an additional 7 (2d6) psychic damage, in addition to the bonus from Soulbeam I (14 (4d6) total extra damage). When the caprisoul’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, this action deals an additional 10 (3d6) psychic damage, in addition to the previous bonuses (24 (7d6) total extra damage). Soulform Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Incorporeality or Soulbeam II Type: Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the caprisoul unleashes its stored pool of soul power, turning into a terrifying, ghostly version of itself, changing in the following ways for 1 minute: It grows to Medium size. It becomes weightless and can hover while flying. It has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. It can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. If it ends its turn inside an object, it takes 5 (1d10) force damage and is shunted to the nearest unoccupied space. It gains a number of temporary hit points equal to the value in its pool of soul power. Its pool of soul power resets to zero. It gains a ranged spell attack: Soul Lance. Ranged Spell Attack : Con modifier + PB to hit, range 90 ft., one creature. Hit: 24 (7d6) psychic damage and the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the caprisoul until the transformation ends. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. After the minute elapses, or if the caprisoul is reduced to 0 hit points before then, it falls unconscious until its tamer finishes a long rest. After it uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

