# Captain Callous - Chapter Five

**description**: Captain Callous is a notorious tiefling pirate captain of The Devil’s Fin. He is a direct descendant of Asmodeus himself and is one of the most-feared pirates in the Sea of Swords. Captain Callous has five potential stat blocks, one for each chapter in which the characters might encounter him. Captain Callous Traits Ideal. “I will become the most feared pirate alive.” Bond. “The Devil’s Fin is my life and was a gift from Asmodeus. To lose it would be to lose my link to him.” Flaw. “I always believe I can escape.” Traits Demands of Nessus. At the start of each of Callous’ turns, he can choose one ally he can see within 30 feet of him. The chosen ally loses 20 hit points, and Callous regains the same number of hit points. If Callous is incapacitated, he makes no choice; instead, the closest ally within 30 feet is the chosen ally. Fiendish Boon. Callous adds his Charisma bonus to his AC and damage rolls. Innate Spellcasting. Callous’ innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: thaumaturgy 1/day each: darkness , hellish rebuke (2nd level) 3/day: misty step Firearm Expert. Callous has had extensive practice with firearms, giving him the following benefits: He ignores the loading quality of firearms with which he is proficient. Being within 5 feet of a hostile creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on his ranged attack rolls. If he makes an attack with a one-handed weapon, he can use a bonus action to attack with a loaded firearm he is holding. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Callous fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Lightfooted. Callous can take the Dash or Disengage action as a bonus action of each of his turns. Magic Resistance. While wearing his mantle of spell resistance , Callous has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Callous deals an extra 17 (5d6) damage when he hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the spy that isn’t incapacitated and Callous doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Special Equipment. Callous wears a cap of water breathing , gloves of swimming and climbing and a mantle of spell resistance . While wearing the gloves, climbing and swimming don’t cost him extra movement, and he has a +5 bonus to Strength (Athletics) checks made to climb or swim. Actions Multiattack. Callous makes three melee attacks or two ranged attacks. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (1d8 + 10) piercing damage. Pistol. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (1d10 + 10) piercing damage. Summon Devil (1/Day). Callous summons 1d4 bearded devils with no chance of failure. Reactions Parry. Callous adds 5 to his AC against one melee attack that would hit him. To do so, Callous must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. Legendary Actions Callous can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Callous regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Misty Step. Callous casts misty step . Pistol. Callous makes one pistol attack. Taunt (2 Actions). Callous targets one creature within 30 feet of him. If the target can hear Callous, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or have disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls and saving throws until the start of Callous’ next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (tiefling)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

