# Capybear

**description**: Mud splotches this rotund, quadrupedal rodent's reddish-brown fur. The pigmented markings and the gleam of curiosity in its eyes denote the creature's intellect as greater than an ordinary animal's. A loamy odor wafts from the creature. Capybears dwell in marshes, swamps, and forests with deep bodies of water. They feed on grasses, reeds, low-hanging leaves, and other readily available vegetation. Though capybears are oversized rodents—often reaching a height equivalent to a pony—and physically imposing, they find themselves prey to large cats and smaller pack hunters. Sapient Grazers. Capybears roam their territory searching for their favorite grasses and roots to eat immediately and to gather for future meals. Observers who follow the rodents often mistake them for ordinary, if massive, rodents at first. However, further observation uncovers the capybears' ability to communicate and coordinate. They have their own language, composed of barks, chirps, and growls, which proves difficult for outsiders to duplicate short of magical means. With patience, non-capybears can establish a dialogue with the creatures. Capybears have limited dexterity in their paws, leaving them unable to use many tools, but they adeptly use materials available to them to build homes along the bodies of water they frequent. Useful Neighbors. Capybears generally distrust outsiders and drive away creatures that come too close to their abodes. When they forage for food and supplies, they are not aggressive unless provoked. Societies that have reached an understanding with capybear communities appreciate the industrious creatures' presence, for the capybears devour weeds in cultivated land without destroying valuable crops. The rodents also clear deadfalls from which they gather building material. Highly Social. Capybears gather in groups of ten to forty, depending on available food. They live up to forty years and reach maturity after five years, spending the majority of their lives contributing to the community's well-being. Many capybears spend their waking hours foraging while a few remain in their hidden abodes to rear young and the most physically imposing capybears guard their homes from diurnal predators. Elderly capybears impart their wisdom on the younger capybears at night when the community gathers to eat. Enjoying an egalitarian outlook, the creatures dwell in proximity, and every capybear is a valued member of the community. Hold Breath. The capybear can hold its breath for 30 minutes. Keen Smell. The capybear has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Pack Tactics . The capybear has advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the capybear's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Pounce. If the capybear moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Slam attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the capybear can make one Bite attack against it as a bonus action. Swamp Camouflage . The capybear has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in swamps or muddy terrain. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) piercing damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage. Reactions Protect the Community. When another capybear within 5 feet of this capybear is hit by an attack, this capybear can leap in the way, becoming the new target of the attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

