# Caranth Nevodar, Keeper of the Bloodthorn Grove

**description**: Caranth Nevodar took over as Keeper of the Bloodthorn Grove a little over two centuries ago. After the deaths of the previous keeper, Caranth saw a need for further stability in the circle and formed a pact of his own with the grove – joining with it as an extension of its will and gaining some limited command over the bloodthorn vines. Immortal Keeper. Caranth’s pact with the grove ensures that so long as the grove stands so too shall he live. Like a lich and its soul-containing phylactery, Caranth is resurrected from the grove's heart tree within 1d10 days of his death so long as the grove still stands. When resurrected in this way, Caranth appears fully clothed and equipped with his usual attire. Additionally, as long as the grove remains, Caranth does not age. Personality. As the Keeper of the Bloodthorn Grove, Caranth is known for wisdom, patience, and his acceptance of the natural order of life - the need to consume life to maintain one's own. His judgements, while sometimes harsh or dispassionate, are always fair and keep the needs of the grove above all else. Few know him well or claim to know his true thoughts, but those who follow him trust him beyond doubt. Appearance. Caranth is an impossibly old man whose strength is yet undeniable and he carries himself with an air of authority and confidence that is hard to ignore. He dresses in robes woven from plant fibers and dyed with color taken from local flora. He also wears a crown carved from bloodthorns and wields a scythe whose blade is crafted from one of the enormous thorns growing on the vines of the grove’s heart tree. Plot Hooks A Worthy Sacrifice. The time for the grove's annual sacrifice draws nigh, but its guardians have not yet seen a creature worthy of sacrifice to the nature spirits. The party can gain their favor by helping them to find a powerful beast to sacrifice. They must bring it back alive, however. Hungering Grove. The guardians of the grove have been unable to find a creature worthy of sacrifice to the nature spirits and Caranth orders the next adventuring party to be captured and brought to the grove for sacrifice. Desperate times call for desperate measures. Blighted Grove. The bloodthorn grove has suffered a blight, and through their connections to the grove many of its most powerful guardians, Caranth included, have become vulnerable and weak. They seek a solution to the blight, but must rely on adventurers for aid. Tactics In combat, Caranth has no fear, knowing that he will be revived from the grove’s heart tree should he fall. Instead, he wades in, focusing on those with the most power to threaten his grove, especially any opponent with fire spells. He typically begins with the Entangling Thorns lair action, only relying on bloodthorn bonds* if he needs to be especially sure that a target will not escape. While his targets are restrained, he uses the advantage on attack rolls to try to get a critical strike and increase both his damage and his healing from his Scythe of the Reaper trait. His second lair action is typically Bramble Growth once he has found a target and wishes to keep them locked down next to him. He also tries to apply Lacerate to as many foes as possible to take advantage of the hit point loss whenever they take an action. Lair Actions While in the Bloodthorn Grove, on initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Caranth takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Caranth can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Entangling Thorns. Bloodthorn vines sprout from the ground, attempting to climb their way up creatures in a 20-foot cube centered on a point within 60 feet of Caranth. Each creature in the area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) slashing damage and be restrained by the vines until initiative count 20 of the following round. A creature restrained in this way can use an Action to make a DC 17 Strength check to free itself. A creature that succeeds its saving throw takes half damage and is not restrained. Creatures allied with the Bloodthorn Grove are immune to this effect. Bramble Growth. A patch of bloodthorn vines grows along the ground in a 30-foot radius circle centered on Caranth. This area is considered difficult terrain, and creatures that cross the area take 3 (1d6) slashing damage for every 5 feet of movement they spend crossing it. Creatures allied with the Bloodthorn Grove are immune to this effect. Sapping Thorns. A single strand of bloodthorn vine attempts to grab a living, non-plant creature within 15 feet of Caranth and drink its blood. That creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or lose 9 (2d8) hit points. Caranth regains hit points equal to the hit points lost. Traits Boon of the Grim Harvest. Caranth adds his Wisdom modifier to his AC as long as he is wearing light or no armor, and uses it in place of Strength for attack rolls and damage rolls made with sickles and scythes (included in stat block). Immortal Keeper. As long as the Bloodthorn Grove stands, Caranth gains a new body within 1d10 days when slain. When his new body forms, it appears in a hollow of the grove’s heart tree fully equipped with his usual attire and with all his hit points restored restored and no Injuries. Nature Walk. Caranth ignores difficult terrain made of soil or plants, and can move through solid plant matter but not end his turn inside it. Scythe of the Reaper. Whenever Caranth hits a creature with a melee attack, including melee spell attacks, the attack deals an additional 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and Caranth gains a number of temporary hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt (included in stat block). Spellcasting. Caranth is a 16th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). Actions Multiattack. Caranth makes two melee attacks, one of which can be with the lacerate * spell. Keeper’s Bloodthorn Scythe. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10+5) piercing damage, plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and Caranth gains temporary hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. This attack ignores resistance to piercing damage and treats immunity to piercing damage as resistance instead. On a critical hit, this attack deals an additional 11 (2d10) piercing damage (in addition to any bonus damage from the critical hit). Lacerate. Melee Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 30 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (2d8) slashing damage, plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and the creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury of Setback I severity, “Laceration”. Each time the Injury creature takes an action, it loses 3 (1d6) hit points. This Injury is automatically removed at the end of a short rest, or when the creature regains hit points via magic. Caranth gains temporary hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. Bloodthorn Bonds (Recharge 5-6). Caranth casts bloodthorn bonds* at 5th level. One creature within 60 ft. of Caranth that he can see must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) piercing damage and gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, "Bloodthorn Host", until the spell ends. While Injured in this way, a creature is restrained and takes 10 (3d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, it can attempt a DC 17 Strength check to break the bonds. Alternatively, any creature can attack the vines to break it free. Each vine has an AC of 15 and must be dealt at least 20 damage with a single action to be destroyed. Once three vines have been destroyed, the spell ends. Reap the Bloody Harvest (Recharge 5-6). Each creature within 30 ft. of Caranth that has taken damage must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (6d6) necrotic damage. Caranth regains hit points equal to half the total damage dealt. Creatures not made of flesh are immune to this ability (i.e. oozes, elementals, and constructs). Bonus Actions Reaper’s Stride (Recharge 4-6). Caranth teleports up to 30 ft. toward a hostile creature he can see. His destination must be an unoccupied space he can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human, shapechanger)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

