# Caretaker Weevil

**description**: The odd giant insect plods along a massive tree bough, which dips from its weight. The creature's incredibly long, thin neck has a swivel point in the middle of its length, allowing greater range for its head as it munches the branch's more distant leaves. Caretaker weevils are herbivorous giant insects that inhabit temperate forests and provide care for the flora and fauna. Farming Insects. Caretaker weevils incessantly care for the plants and animals in their range. Their presence and their compulsive ministrations bring comfort to those around them, creating incredibly lush and thriving habitats. They are typically seen tending their “crops” throughout the day, and many oddly placed collections of plants can be attributed to them. They've even been known to maintain herds of giant aphids and similarly docile creatures. Some of the more social creatures, including giant ants and giant bees, encourage the presence of caretaker weevils to ensure the community's vitality. Humanoid farms try to entice and maintain good relations with nearby caretaker weevils in hopes of a prosperous harvest. The weevils are considered by many as a mark of luck and good fortune. Moving Apothecary. Many alchemists and apothecaries seek caretaker weevils, living or dead, for a wide array of alchemical uses, from restorative potions and sedatives to glues and any number of other concoctions. They are alchemical treasure troves, and many hospitals, ailing nobles, and alchemist guilds offer high prices for fresh specimens. Ecological Remediation. Druids and others interested in preserving damaged ecosystems recently realized the true potential of caretaker weevils and have begun introducing them to areas in need of extra care. The weevils have markedly increased the viability of these lands, alleviating the effects of drought, wildfire, disease, and other ravages in a third of the time. Calming Presence. A creature that enters a space within 5 feet of the caretaker weevil or that starts its turn there must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be indifferent to all creatures that it is hostile toward while it remains within 60 feet of the weevil. This indifference ends if the creature is attacked or harmed by a spell or if it witnesses any of its allies being harmed. Diligent Preservation. A creature that isn't a Construct or Undead and that starts its turn with 0 hp within 60 feet of the caretaker weevil becomes stable. In addition, any corpse within 60 feet of the weevil is protected from decay and can't become Undead while it remains within 60 feet of the weevil and for 24 hours after it leaves the area. Actions Mandibles. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d8 + 1) slashing damage. Glue Glob. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) acid damage. The target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, it is restrained for 1 minute. On a success, its speed is halved for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Regenerative Spittle (3/Day). The caretaker weevil launches spittle at one creature it can see within 10 feet of it. The target regains 2 (1d4) hp. For 1 minute, the target regains 1 hp at the start of each of its turns.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

