# Caskadon

**description**: Caskadons are essentially the perfect party guests. They love to have fun, come with free booze, and if a brawl breaks out... Well, one way or another, when a caskadon joins the party, someone’s getting smashed! — Heliana, Enthusiastic Celebrant Type: Construct Creature Component: Any treant Bonus Tamer Improvement: Bottoms Up and +2 Hit Dice Good times follow caskadons wherever they go. With a penchant for harmless mischief and an infectious, jubilant spirit, caskadon are welcome in taverns and feast halls the world over. These gentle and affable creatures prefer to settle conflicts over a couple of stout drinks, but aren’t above barreling into a fray and putting some rabble rousers in their place with their mighty trunks. Woe to those who incur the wrath of a caskadon! If any of the caskadon’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the caskadon’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the caskadon’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer Bottoms Up Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (tamer) The caskadon can be used as a set of brewer’s supplies, and its tamer has advantage on any ability checks using it in this way. In addition, over the course of a short or long rest, the caskadon can brew an invigorating beverage for a creature to enjoy. A creature that drinks this beverage immediately after the rest gains one Brew Die, which is a d4 and lasts until the creature finishes a short or long rest. When the creature makes an ability check, attack roll, or saving throw, it can expend its Brew Die to roll it and add the number rolled to the result. Growth I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The caskadon’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its Trunk attack increases to a d6. Happy Hour Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the caskadon can spray alcohol from its trunk in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be soaked with alcohol until the end of its next turn. The next time a soaked creature takes fire damage, it takes an extra 10 (3d6) fire damage. In addition, a creature that fails its save suffers an effect depending on the type of alcohol sprayed (tamer’s choice): Sticky Beer. The creature’s speed is halved until the end of its next turn. Tart Wine. The creature takes 2d6 acid damage. Potent Scotch. The creature is poisoned until the end of its next turn. Once the caskadon uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the caskadon’s tamer reaches 5th level in the tamer class, the extra fire damage increases to 14 (4d6). Growth II Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type: Passive (companion) The caskadon’s size increases to Medium, its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its Trunk attack increases to a d8. Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the caskadon makes two attacks. Bar Brawler I Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The caskadon can replace an attack it makes with a grapple, and has advantage on ability checks made to grapple creatures smaller than itself. In addition, the caskadon becomes proficient with improvised weapons. Creatures that the caskadon is grappling and that are at least two sizes smaller than it are considered improvised weapons for the caskadon. The damage die for these weapons is equal to the size of the creature’s Hit Dice, and they can’t be thrown. When the caskadon hits with an attack using a creature as a weapon, that creature takes 2 (1d4) bludgeoning damage. Hard Liquor Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Happy Hour Type: Active (action) When the caskadon uses its Happy Hour action, it can choose to increase the pressure of the spray, changing it from a 30-foot cone into a 5-foot-wide, 30-foot-long line, and from a Dexterity saving throw into a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone in addition to the other effects. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. When the caskadon’s tamer reaches 13th level in the tamer class, the bludgeoning damage increases to 14 (4d6). Trojan Elephant Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the caskadon can retract its trunk and legs and close its ears, making itself appear like a barrel. While in this form, its speed is 0 feet, it can’t take actions other than reverting to its normal form, and it’s indistinguishable from a normal barrel while it remains motionless. While the caskadon is in this form, a creature within 5 feet of it can use its action to enter it, gaining total cover against effects outside the caskadon. The caskadon can hold up to two creatures one size smaller than it, or up to four creatures at least two sizes smaller than it. Breathing creatures inside the caskadon can survive there for up to 1 hour, after which they begin to suffocate. Any creatures inside the caskadon when it reverts to its normal form are ejected into unoccupied spaces of their choice within 5 feet of the caskadon. Bar Brawler II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Bar Brawler I Type: Passive (companion) The caskadon can use creatures one size smaller than itself as improvised weapons. The damage that a creature takes when the caskadon hits with an attack using it as a weapon increases to 4 (1d8). In addition, the caskadon can throw a creature it is using as an improvised weapon with a normal range of 10 feet and a long range of 20 feet. Growth III Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Growth II Type: Passive (companion) The caskadon’s size increases to Large, its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its Trunk attack increases to a d10. Growth IV Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Growth III Type: Passive (companion) The caskadon’s size increases to Huge, its Hit Die size increases to a d12 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its Trunk attack increases to a d12.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: construct
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 26720
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

