# Catamount

**description**: A large, broad-shouldered cat stalks its prey through a narrow canyon. A wall of stone erupts suddenly from the ground, cutting off the prey's only escape. Typically found in areas with rocky terrain, such as mountains, canyons, and badlands, the catamount is a large hunting cat with an innate control over rocks and earth. The catamount uses its ability to shape stone to aid in hunting, causing minor earthquakes or changes in terrain to confuse or redirect its prey. While catamounts prefer to hunt game like deer and goats, a hungry catamount happily feasts on whatever prey is available. Cavern Carvers. Catamounts use their ability to manipulate the earth to carve out complex cavern systems as dens for rearing young. It is not unusual for kobolds, goblins, or even small giants to claim abandoned catamount dens as their own, for the caverns make defensible homes. Territorial. The catamount is a solitary creature and can claim an area of up to 20 square miles as its hunting grounds. A catamount tolerates another catamount only long enough to mate, and the product of such a union is typically one to two kits. Once the kits are old enough to hunt on their own, they leave the den to find their own territory. Well-Grounded. The catamount has advantage on ability checks and saving throws made against effects that would knock it prone. Actions Multiattack. The catamount makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage. Bonus Actions Control Earth. The catamount molds the ground near it, causing one of the following effects: Stone Wall. The catamount causes a wall of rock to rise from the ground at a point it can see within 30 feet of it. The wall is up to 30 feet long, 5 feet high, and 5 feet thick. It can be any shape, as long as its base is connected to the ground. If the wall cuts through a creature's space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side (the catamount's choice). If a creature would be surrounded on all sides by the wall, it can make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a success, it can use its reaction to move up to its speed so that it is no longer enclosed by the wall. The wall lasts 1 minute or until the catamount creates a new wall. Fissure. The catamount causes a rift to form in the ground at a point it can see within 30 feet of it. The rift can be up to 15 feet wide, up to 30 feet long and up to 10 feet deep, and it can be any shape. Each creature standing on a spot where the fissure opens must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves moves with the fissure's edge as it opens. A fissure that opens beneath a structure causes it to automatically collapse as if the structure was in the area of an earthquake spell. The catamount can have only one fissure open at a time. If it opens another, the previous fissure closes, shunting all creatures inside it to the surface. Tremors. The catamount causes the earth beneath its feet to shake and shift. Each creature within 30 feet of the catamount must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or take 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

