# Cave Mimic

**description**: The cavern suddenly sprouts jagged teeth, and grappling pseudopods reach out from the walls. These immense mimics disguise themselves as caverns, rough-hewn dungeon rooms, or other natural terrain and wait for prey to walk into their open maws. To complete the disguise, the cave mimic shapes small pseudopods into terrain features or objects, such as stalagmites, stalactites, furniture, and sparkling treasure. Though most commonly seen as caves, a cave mimic can take the form of a mine, crumbling ruin, or even basement. Joined Link. Multiple cave mimics can join together to form networks. A dungeon formed of cave mimics tries to lure prey to the deepest part of the network with a trail of “treasure” before attacking. Cooperative Inhabitants. Occasionally, humanoids living in caves where a cave mimic lurks work out an arrangement with it, helping to lure intruders to the mimic in exchange for not eating members of that group. Adhesive (Object or Terrain Form Only). The mimic adheres to anything that touches it. A creature adhered to the cave mimic is also grappled by it (escape DC 15). Ability checks made to escape this grapple have disadvantage. It can choose for a creature to not be affected by this trait. False Appearance (Object or Terrain Form Only). While the mimic remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from an ordinary object or terrain feature. Grappler. The mimic has advantage on attack rolls against any creature grappled by it. Object Mimicry (Object or Terrain Form Only). The mimic can shape minor pseudopods into Medium or smaller objects. A creature that sees such an object can tell it is an imitation with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check. A creature with at least half its body in contact with the object, such as sitting on an imitation chair, is subjected to the mimic's Adhesive trait. Stretched Form (Terrain Form Only). The mimic can occupy another creature's space and vice versa. Tunneler. The cave mimic can burrow through solid rock at half its burrow speed and leaves a 15-foot-diameter tunnel in its wake. Actions Multiattack. The cave mimic makes four Pseudopod attacks. Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the cave mimic is in object or terrain form, the target is subjected to the mimic's Adhesive trait. Stalagteeth (Terrain Form Only, Recharge 4-6). The cave mimic launches a harpoon-like pseudopod, shaped like a stalactite or other similarly pointed object, at one creature in its space. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 24 (7d6) piercing damage and have the harpoon pseudopod stuck in it. While the pseudopod is stuck, the target is restrained and takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns, and the mimic can use a bonus action to pull the target up to 30 feet toward the mimic's nearest wall, ceiling, or similar surface. A creature, including the target, can take its action to detach the harpoon pseudopod by succeeding on a DC 15 Strength check. If the target detaches the harpoon while it is stuck to the ceiling of the mimic, the target takes falling damage as normal. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The cave mimic transforms into a Gargantuan object or stretches itself out as terrain no larger than a 35-foot cube or back into its true, amorphous form. Its statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity (Shapechanger )
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

