# Celestial Devourer Medius

**description**: Celestial Devourers A wretched, mutated creature, a celestial devourer is borne of greed, gluttony, and pride. Though no pious clergyperson would label a celestial devourer as ‘angelic’, they are physiologically and arcanically celestial. Spells such as detect evil and good identify them as such and a magic circle impedes them the same as a deva or solar. A Glutton’s Punishment. Consuming the flesh of celestials is no trivial affair. In small quantities, one might notice an enhancing effect: a buoying fortitude, an augmentation to one’s charisma, perhaps even the ability to detect the presence of good and evil. Regular consumption can see these boons turned on their heads: emaciation, a sinister twist to one’s smile that few trust, and a blind madness towards morals and ethics. When taken to excess, a mortal creature will usually die by their own wasting, through misadventure, or at the hand of a vengeful paladin. However, a creature in a position of power with access to other means of sustaining and protecting itself might undergo the full transformation to a celestial devourer. Followers and Fanatics. A celestial devourer generates an infectious madness; a zealous entitlement that causes both them and their followers to believe it is worthy of godhood. Over time, their followers’ lose their kindness and mercy, becoming cruel sycophants. They develop an innate resistance to radiant damage and they can’t be charmed, such is their adoration for the devourer they serve. Lair Actions While the celestial devourer is in its lair, it can use the following lair actions. The saving throw DC and damage of the lair actions depend on the level of the adventure, as shown in the Variable Lair Action Statistics table. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vmod Vdam Vdist 6th 13 +5 5 ( 2d4 ) 20 ft. 11th 15 +7 10 ( 3d6 ) 40 ft. 16th 17 +9 21 ( 6d6 ) 60 ft. Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the celestial devourer can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the celestial devourer can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Royal Reverence. An object of import within the lair—such as a throne, altar, or statue—releases a wave of divine energy. Each creature of the celestial devourer’s choice within Vdist of that object must succeed on a VDC Constitution saving throw or fall prone in supplication to the celestial devourer and gain 1 level of exhaustion . Bolster Zealots. Followers of the celestial devourer that can hear his speech are suffused with fanatical energy and throw themselves into battle with reckless abandon. Until initiative count 20 on the next round, allies of the celestial devourer gain advantage on attack rolls, but attack rolls against them have advantage . Radiant Burst. All lights that the celestial devourer can see flare with divine energy. Each creature within 20 feet of a light source must succeed on a VDC Constitution saving throw or become blinded until initiative count 20 of the following round. Regional Effects The region containing the celestial devourer’s lair is warped by the infusion of his dark magic, creating one or more of the following effects. For the sake of this adventure, the lair is Dor’alon. Celestials that come within 1 mile of the lair feel an intense dread growing within them. A celestial must succeed on a DC 10 Charisma saving throw at the end of each hour spent in the affected area. On a failure, it becomes frightened of the lair for 24 hours . The effect can be removed earlier by a greater restoration spell or similar magic. Food spoils at twice the usual rate within 3 miles of the lair, and creatures within the affected area must eat and drink twice as much to be satiated. Vegetation within 6 miles of the lair grows twisted and blackened as if scorched by fire. Creatures born in the region are deformed and vulnerable to disease. If the celestial devourer dies, the intense dread and food spoilage quickly fade in 24 hours. The deformed vegetation returns to normal over 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

