# Ceroptor Swarm

**description**: The dominant species that holds control over all habitable moons orbiting Anshar are known as Ceroptors. Cerptors hail from the near lifeless moon the humanoids call Morthos. Created by the dark and alien manipulations of the jagladine, they were designed to manipulate weaker species of the neighboring moons in order to break them into revealing the secrets of the Ancient gates. Of genius and entirely alien intellect, a typical ceroptor appears almost as an oversized, hideous head trailing long ganglion-like structures of thick cartilage. Parasitic Predators. Ceroptors capture, enslave and breed the various humanoid races as if they were cattle. They eat humans when they so desire, but also use their bodies by removing a host’s head, inserting their ganglion into their necks and taking over their central nervous systems so they gain full control over the body. This mounting process kills the humanoid host, although the body can remain “alive” and in the possession and control of its host for as long as the host desires or until it is killed. They also reproduce by laying eggs inside a host body. When the eggs hatch, a brood of tiny ceroptor larvae eats its way out of the corpse. Upon escaping the host, the larvae go into deep caves where they sleep for several months as they mature into fully developed ceroptors. Body Traders. Ceroptors believe themselves to be a paragon species, far superior to all others. Currently ceroptors travel from moon to moon by mentally projecting themselves from their existing head-like bodies, through inner space and into recently hatched ceroptor larvae on other moons. The original form dies, but the same personality lives on in the new form. In this way, they are somewhat immortal. How ceroptors originally traveled between the moons is unknown, though it is speculated that an earlier humanoid race possessed the ability to moon jump and became infested with ceroptor eggs after an encounter with the hostile creatures. Ceroptors who find stable host bodies to inhabit over a long period of time become infiltrators within humanoid societies, spying out choice targets for their fellows and manipulating events behind the scenes. They use their mental powers to create disorder and suspicion so the communities where they hunt will be easy prey. Insidious Takeover. When a ceroptor controls a creature, you can consider it a template that can be applied to a creature much as any other template. Use the following rules when applying the ceroptor template. · The creature gains the shapechanger and ceroptor subtype. · Increase the CR of the base creature by 3, to a minimum of 2. · The creature’s AC becomes 17 if it is not already 17. · The creature’s mental attribute scores are altered as follows: Int 19, Wis 15, Cha 13. · The creature gains the skill proficiencies of the ceroptor, including those skills that count proficiency bonus twice (Deception, Intimidation, Perception, and Persuasion). · The creature gains the Powerful Mind ability, which grants it proficiency in Intelligence saving throws, and allows it to use that saving throw in place of Wisdom or Charisma. All physical saving throws are unchanged from the base creature. · The creature gains darkvision of 60 feet if it did not have it previously. · The creature gains the use of the Ceroptor’s Innate Spellcasting as follows: Innate Spellcasting (Psionic). The ceroptor’s innate spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no components. • At will— detect thoughts, suggestion • 3/day— confusion, fear • 1/day— feeblemind This creature irrevocably dies when it reaches 0 hit points, as it was already mostly dead to begin with, and partially animated by the creoptor. If the host is targeted by magic that would return the corpse to life, the creoptor is expelled (see the creoptor’s “steal body” special ability above). When the body is incapacitated, the ceroptor is forced out of the body, and the host body. @font-face {font-family:Wingdings; panose-1:5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0; mso-font-charset:77; mso-generic-font-family:decorative; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:3 0 0 0 -2147483647 0;}@font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyIndent, li.BodyCopyIndent, div.BodyCopyIndent {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent Char"; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.BodyCopyIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}ol {margin-bottom:0cm;}ul {margin-bottom:0cm;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: swarm of medium aberrations
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

