# Cervidal

**description**: At first glance, cervidals appear to look like satyrs. They resemble humanoids with goat-like features but are more handsome, nobler, and regal-looking. Cervidals have short, reddish-brown fur over their golden skin, with hooves as feet and their heads crowned with magnificent curving horns of a ram. Cervidals, along with equinals, are amongst the most common types of guardinals one will encounter in Elysium, and thus, along with equinals, form the bulk of a guardinal army. Dispelling Horns. A cervidal loathes physical combat, choosing to end conflicts through peaceful contests, diplomacy, or witty banter. But if a physical confrontation is unavoidable, a cervidal will not back down. It often opens combat with a headlong charge, using its formidable horns to break enemy formation. Its horns are more than just weapons, though, as the cervidal can also use it to break enchantments, dispel illusions, and banish summoned creatures. Despite its great strength, a cervidal prefers to use weapons that rely on finesse and skill. Guardinals The noble guardinals are celestials that resemble animal-humanoid hybrids. Despite their bestial appearance, guardinals are the most honorable and pure-hearted beings one will ever encounter. Native to Elysium and the House of Nature, the guardinals embody virtue and good-naturedness without being constrained by law nor distracted by the chaos of freedom. They are welcoming, mirthful, and witty. Though they always seek to resolve conflict through peaceful means, guardinals are ready to fight if needed. Due to their nature, guardinals often clash with fiends, tyrants, and evil undead. Noble Heroes. While guardinals have no strict hierarchy as do the celestial archons, they recognize the authority and follow the guardinal paragons known as Talisid and the Five Companions. From time to time, guardinals may be called upon by deities of Elysium and the House of Nature to perform noble quests, at times aiding heroes from the Material Plane. Squads of guardinals also mount lightning raids and rescue missions in the Lower Planes. Traits Charge. If the cervidal moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) damage. Magic Resistance. The cervidal has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Speak with Beasts. The cervidal can communicate with beasts as if they shared a language. Actions Multiattack. The cervidal makes three attacks: one to Ram and two with its Rapier. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) force damage. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. Spellcasting. The cervidal casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: bless, command, detect poison and disease, light, magic missile 2/day each: hold person, protection from poison, suggestion Bonus Actions Dispelling Horns (3/Day). When the cervidal hits a target with a Ram attack, it can choose one of three effects: Break Enchantment. If the target that is charmed, frightened, or possessed by a celestial, an elemental, a fey, a fiend, or an undead, the target hit is no longer charmed, frightened, or possessed by such creatures. Dismissal. If the target is an illusion, it is immediately dispelled. If the target is a fey, a fiend, or an undead, the cervidal can attempt to drive the creature back to its home plane. The creature must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its home plane (if it isn't there already). If they aren't on their home plane, undead are sent to the Shadowfell, and fey are sent to the Feywild. Dispel Magic. Any spell of 3rd level or lower on the target ends. For each spell of 4th level or higher on the target, the cervidal must make a Charisma ability check. The DC equals 10 + the spell's level. On a successful check, the spell ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Neutral Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

