# Ceryneian Hind

**description**: A famously beautiful creature, with the form of a female deer, larger than a bull, with golden antlers like those of a stag, hooves of bronze, swift as the wind and capable of snorting fire. A truly magnificent creature, of which only five like it have ever existed. As legend goes, Artemis, goddess of the hunt, was so impressed by the beasts that she tamed four of them to pull her chariot by using magical golden bridles. However, she left the last one roam free on the Ceryneian hills, for in the future Heracles would need to capture it as one of his Labors. Which he would eventually succeed at, after a full year of chasing the hind throughout the land. As a result the Ceryneian Hind has become a sacred animal to Artemis, which has granted it protection from any and all hunters who would seek the creature. Although due to its rather skittish nature, very few creatures have more than a few seconds in the presence of the hind, before it runs away. Swift Escapist. The Ceryneian Hind is a calm creature, avoiding confrontation to the best of its ability. It’s astounding speed aids it in such endeavours, easily leaving riding horses, aurochs and even flying dragons in the dust while running on land. Sacred Beasts of the Land Throughout the ages the world has existed, unique animals have made themselves known in legends. Stronger, faster, more majestic and, perhaps, even a little magical. The most well known of these creatures are the Sacred Beasts of the Land. This title refers to all the unique animals associated with the Twelve Labors of Heracles. Polymorphing into a Sacred Beast Players attempting to use Polymorph to become any of the Sacred Beasts of the Land will find that they cannot replicate the magic properties of the creature in question. For example, they will not be able to use the innate spellcasting feature, legendary actions or legendary resistances. Additionally, only players who have substantial experience with the creature in question should be able to attempt such a transformation. An example of such experience could be the slaying of the beast, as well as the creation of a friendly bond, but it must involve personal experience from the character. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the hind fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Charge. If the hind moves at least 20 ft. straight toward a target and then hits it with a ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 3d6 (3d6) damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the hind can make another ram attack against it as a bonus action. Nimble Escape. The hind can take the dash, disengage or hide action as a bonus action on each of its turns. Slippery. The hind has advantage on skill checks and saving throws against being knocked prone, grappled or restrained. Spellcasting. The hind's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: 2/day each: longstrider, pass without trace 1/day each: freedom of movement, haste Actions Multiattack. The hind can make two ram attacks. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Ceryneian Fire (Recharge 5-6). The hind snorts a stream of fire in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. All creatures that took damage are ignited, taking 3 (1d6) fire damage at the start of their turn. A creature can use its action to put the flames out or another creature within 5 feet of it can use its action to do it. Legendary Actions The Ceryneian Hind can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Ceryneian Hind regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The hind can move up to its speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The hind makes one Ram attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

