# Chain Spider (troll)

**description**: Content Warning: Torture Chain spiders are created from the corpses of giants and humanoids, returning them to a semblance of life (so similar that they are not even classified as undead by most scholars), though without an intact mind or soul. An incision is made above the corpse’s left orbital, and a chunk of the prefrontal cortex is removed using an iron or steel tube. The piece of brain is infused into a piece of metal through a dark ritual, and is then bound to the skull on the exterior, forming a small metal horn near where the incision was made. Horrifying Transformation. Over the next few days, the creature’s body undergoes painful and horrifying changes as shards of metal sprout and grow throughout its bone and muscle. By the end of the transformation, the creature becomes capable of harnessing its pain and suffering into supernatural abilities. It gains the ability to animate chains by transforming pieces of the chain into tiny metal spiders, and can move along them like a 4-limbed spider on a web. Mindless Intelligence. Although chain spiders lack the mind of the creature they once were, the rituals used to create them do give them enough intelligence and mental capacity to serve their creators and even communicate with them if needed. No semblance of the body’s original mind remains, though occasionally pieces of old memories and information slip through. Tactics. Though each chain spider's original abilities are unique, their tactics with their newly developed abilities are to begin by using Animate Chain in order to gain an ally in their fight, after which they will attempt to bind a foe with their Chain Web before using Inflict Pain. If there are no chains around, they first use Chain Web, animating those chains only after the target has broken free. Traits Keen Smell. the chain spider has advantage on wisdom (perception) checks that rely on smell. Regeneration. The chain spider regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the chain spider takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of its next turn. The chain spider dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Grounded Body. Chain spiders can control the flow of electricity through the metal in their bodies, and have advantage on saving throws against lightning damage and other electrical effects. Dexterous Evasion. Whenever the chain spider would be subjected to an effect that allows them to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, they instead take no damage if they succeed on the saving throw and only half damage if they fail. Spiked Body. Whenever the chain spider starts its turn while grappled or while grappling another creature, that creature takes 1d6 piercing damage. Actions Multiattack. The chain spider makes three attacks: one with its Bite and two with its Claws. It can replace any Claw attack with a Puncturing Punch. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 feet, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 feet, one target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) slashing damage. Puncturing Punch. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 feet, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage, and the target's Injury thresholds are reduced by 5 for 1 minute or until they suffer an Injury. Animate Chains. The chain spider turns a 10-foot length of metal chain into a swarm of metal spiders. The chain spider controls the swarm's actions, but can have no more than three swarms under its control at once. If it creates a fourth swarm, the oldest swarm turns back into a chain. If the swarm is within 5 feet of another creature when this happens, the chain spider can use Chain Web against that creature, even if it is not within range or the ability is not able to be used either due to an Injury or recharge. Chain Web (recharge 5-6). The chain spider shoots a barbed chain from its body at a creature it can see within 60 feet. That creature must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained by the chains. While restrained in this way, the creature takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage every time it takes an action. As an action, it can make an acrobatics or athletics check against the saving throw DC to break free from the chains. Inflict Pain. The chain spider channels its pain through a psychic connection to a creature restrained by its Chain Web. That creature must make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or take 14 (4d6) psychic damage, plus 3 (1d6) psychic damage per Injury the chain spider suffers from. This ability cannot be removed by an Injury.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

