# Champion of Ravens

**description**: Death comes for all things in their time. It is the will of the Matron of Ravens that no being, no matter how heroic or how powerful, shall escape their rightful place in the hereafter. Yet when his sister Vex’ahlia died in a sunken Issylran tomb, Vax’ildan demanded that the goddess of death release her claim on Vex’ahlia’s soul—and claim his instead. Inscrutably, the Matron of Ravens acquiesced to Vax’ildan’s demand. He donned the Deathwalker’s Ward, a Vestige of Divergence imbued with the Matron of Ravens’ power, and the legendary armor of her previous mortal champion. In time, Vax’ildan too came to be called her champion, and returned to life from death more than once—even enduring utter annihilation by the Whispered One and strangulation by an Archfey. All these deaths were permissible for the Matron of Ravens’ champion, since the threads of fate that bound Vax’ildan to her service had not yet run their full course. But they inevitably did. Vax’ildan bade farewell to all the people he held most dear in the wake of the Whispered One’s defeat, and vanished into the eternal embrace of his god. In the years since, his returns to the world he once knew have been rare and fleeting. The Champion of Ravens is not Vax’ildan, though Vax resides within him. He is a loyal arbiter of the ineffable providence of death itself. He appears at times as a wrathful angel, masked and surrounded by a storm of raven feathers, bringing an end to those who would pervert the sanctity of oblivion out of greed or fear of the unknown. All fear the end, in their own way. Some fight it, delving into magic that delays the inevitable by making a mockery of both life and death. Others lash out, hurting people around them in smaller ways. But those whose fears are greatest are met by the Champion of Ravens, whose kind soul soothes and shepherds the fearful beyond the veil of the mortal world. Vox Machina Heroes. Scoundrels. Legends. Dumbasses. The legacy of the adventuring party Vox Machina is a complicated one. Over the course of their adventures, they’ve selflessly saved the lives of thousands of people in Tal’Dorei, Wildemount, Issylra, and beyond. Of course, there are also countless tales of individuals they’ve bullied, threatened, insulted, or otherwise needlessly antagonized throughout those same adventures. These legendary figures grew from a band of dime-a-dozen sellswords in the swamp burgh of Stilben to gods-blessed warriors whose actions might have saved all of Exandria from a future of undead tyranny. The deeds of Vox Machina are sung by bards across Tal’Dorei, often exaggerating those already belief-defying tales of gods and monsters and magic. But though their legend has grown wild and unruly, the members of Vox Machina are still people. More than twenty years have passed since their last great campaign. Most of them are still alive, and the lives of these heroes have changed—in big ways and in smaller, more subtle ones. Those among them who age have softer bodies and lines on their faces. Those among them who don’t age still show the weight of the world upon their shoulders. By and large, the members of Vox Machina have set aside weapons, armor, and spells in favor of more subtle ways of helping others. Some lead the lands they were born to lead. Others have been elected to the Tal’Dorei Council, shaping the fate of the continent’s people with quiet wisdom rather than blades and battle cries. Still, each member of this legendary band of adventurers would take up arms again in an instant if it meant protecting those they care for the most. And the Vestiges of Divergence, whose power they unlocked in the battles against the Cinder King and the Whispered One, are still within their grasp. The following stat blocks are here for GMs to use if their players encounter a member of Vox Machina—hopefully as an ally or a "quest giver," for woe betide anyone who encounters these legendary heroes as a foe. These statistics don’t represent the full extent of the characters’ abilities as 20th-level adventurers, but have been streamlined to make them easier for the Game Master to run. Traits Assassinate. During his first turn, the Champion has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn. Any hit the Champion scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit. Aura of Protection. While the Champion is conscious, he and friendly creatures within 10 feet of him have a +3 bonus to saving throws (included above). Eternal Champion. When the Champion is reduced to 0 hit points or dies, his body is destroyed but his spirit returns to the Raven Queen’s side, and he gains a new body after 1d4 days. Evasion. If the Champion is subjected to an effect that allows him to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, he instead takes no damage if he succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if he fails. Fate-Touched (4/Day). When the Champion makes an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, he can reroll the d20 and use either roll. Alternatively, when a creature the Champion can see makes an attack roll against him, or a saving throw against one of his spells or features, he can force that creature to reroll the attack or save and use the new roll. Innate Spellcasting. The Champion’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (+10 to hit with spell attacks, save DC 18). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: bane, bless, druidcraft 1/day: greater invisibility Shadow Smite (1/Turn). The Champion deals an extra 49 (14d6) radiant or necrotic damage (his choice) when he hits a target with a weapon attack and he doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Unerring Sight. The Champion’s ranged weapon attacks ignore half cover and three-quarters cover and have no range penalty. Special Equipment. The Champion wears boots of haste and the Deathwalker's Ward , and wields Whisper . Actions Multiattack. The Champion makes three attacks with Whisper . Whisper. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d4 + 8) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) psychic damage. On a critical hit, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the Champion for 1 minute. On a ranged attack, the Champion can teleport with Whisper , appearing within 5 feet of the target on a hit, or in a random space within 30 feet of the target on a miss. Touch of Life and Death (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The Champion touches a creature within 5 feet of him, and chooses to either heal or harm that creature, restoring 55 (10d10) hit points or dealing 55 (10d10) necrotic damage. If the creature is an unwilling target, it can avoid either effect with a successful DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. Bonus Actions Cunning Action. The Champion takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Boots of Haste (1/Day). The Champion clicks his heels together, casting haste on himself. He doesn’t suffer from lethargy when the spell ends. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. The Champion halves the damage that he takes from an attack that hits him. He must be able to see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

