# Chaos Spawn, Mage of Discord

**description**: This specimen of Chaos Spawn is more powerful than the common type, along with being large enough to match an average humanoid in size. However, what really stands out about it is its magical potential, being considerably more powerful as far as magic is concerned than its smaller kin. And along with this magical ability, they possess the ability to disturb the arcane power of other creatures, unleashing chaotic effects from various sources of magic. Chaos Spawn These strange beings take several forms, ranging from humanoid to strange beasts, plant-like forms and even geometrical shapes. Rarely do two spawns look exactly like each other, but you can always recognize one when you see it. The only physical attribute that doesn’t change is the strange appearance that resembles a night sky and the unending cosmos beyond it. Little is known about them, but they are not inherently destructive or aggressive most of the time. Due to their nature being chaotic at its core, all types of temperaments have been observed. From friendly to indifferent, skittish, aggressive and many more. However, it has been discovered that the size of the spawn correlates directly to its power, not unlike dragons, but strangely enough it is not indicative of their age. Such a detail is impossible to measure given the unique physiology of these creatures. The one common trait they all seem to possess outside of their abilities, is the fact that they are wanderers. They travel all over the land, doing whatever it is that their alien minds feel is appropriate at the time. Spawn of Creation. The Chaos Spawn are born from the infinite void of chaos that created the primordial forces of the Material Plane. They are children of the originator of the universe, which in turn has meant that their nature is almost impossible to comprehend. They do not need to breathe, eat or sleep and seem incapable of communicating with creatures that are not their own kind. Furthermore, when they die they occasionally leave behind a single pearl as their body evaporates, which also bears a similar appearance to their strange astral form. Uniquely Chaotic. While they may have brethren in other chaos spawn, they are never exactly the same as another specimen of their kind. Behaviors, tactics, patterns and preferences will always change from one spawn to the next, especially when they have more options to choose from. Wielder of Chaos Magic. Their power is unpredictable at best, life-changing at its worst. Whenever the spawn are agitated or pushed to violent conflict, they tap into a reserve of primordial power, the Void of Chaos. This in turn will cause strange effects to be unleashed on their enemies, themselves and the world around them. Traits Aura of Chaos. Any creature that casts a spell or cantrip within 30 feet of the chaos spawn triggers a chaos surge. Chaos Surge. Every time the chaos spawn uses its multiattack or casts a spell you must roll a d8 to determine the magical effect produced by the chaos surge in one of the Chaos Surge Tables. Spellcasting. The chaos spawn's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At will: mind sliver, misty step, chaos bolt 2/day each: arms of hadar, dimension door, phantasmal killer, synaptic static, tasha's hideous laughter, tasha's mind whip (as a 3rd level spell) 1/day each: wall of force Magic Resistance. The chaos spawn has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The chaos spawn makes two attacks in any combination and casts a spell or cantrip. Chaotic Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 90ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) fire, cold, lightning, force or psychic damage. Chaotic Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) fire, cold, lightning, force or psychic damage. Chaos Surge Table C 1d8 Surge Effect 1 The next healing spell cast within 60ft of the chaos spawn, will damage instead of heal. 2 A thunder cloud forms as per the Call Lightning spell, cast at 3rd level. At the start of the chaos spawn’s turn, a random creature within the area of the cloud will be struck, which includes the chaos spawn. 3 All creatures within 20ft of the chaos spawn flip a coin. On heads, they grow 1d8 inches taller. On tails, they shrink 1d8 inches shorter. 4 The chaos spawn emits an ear-splitting shriek. All creatures within 30ft must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 2d8 thunder damage, halved on a successful save. Those who fail and are within 10ft of the chaos spawn, or those who fail the DC by 5 or more, are deafened for 2d4 hours. 5 Several small portals to the elemental plane of fire open, summoning 2d6 fire mephits that are hostile to all other creatures that are not their own kind. 6 Every time the creature that triggered this surge speaks for the next minute, spectral butterflies will fly out of their mouth, vaguely muffling their speech but not causing any harm. 7 The chaos spawn becomes electrified and crackling. The next creature to land a hit on the chaos spawn with an unarmed strike or a metal weapon will take 2d8 lightning damage. 8 The target of the attack or spell by the chaos spawn grows ram horns on their head and has the strange urge to chew on several objects it shouldn’t put in its mouth for the next 24 hours. Chaos Surge Table D 1d8 Surge Effect 1 The chaos spawn casts blur on itself. The effect lasts for 1d4 rounds. 2 Gravity in a 100ft radius to the chaos spawn nullifies, causing the spawn and any creatures in the radius to rise into the air as per the levitate spell for 1d4 rounds. 3 In a 60 foot radius around the chaos spawn 2d4 giant crabs spawn. The crabs are controlled by the DM, but their course of action will be to grapple the closest creature that isn’t a crab, including the chaos spawn. 4 A buffeting cyclone starts circling the chaos spawn for the next 1d4 rounds. All ranged weapon attacks and ranged spell attacks are made with disadvantage. 5 The chaos spawn casts confusion centered on itself. All creatures within 10ft of the spawn, and the spawn itself, must make a DC 12 Wisdom save or be affected by the spell. This chaos surge ignores the chaos spawn’s immunity to charm effects. 6 When the chaos spawn is killed, its body will re-form into a flawed simulacrum of the creature that performed the killing blow, controlled by the DM. The simulacrum has no memory, and has a 5 in all ability scores. It may become friendly to the party depending on how it is treated. 7 A wave of lethargy sweeps over all creatures within 60 feet of the chaos spawn. All creatures within range, aside from the spawn, must make a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or fall asleep, as per the sleep spell. 8 A portal the Far Realm opens as 1d6 gibbering mouthers appear within 30 feet of the chaos spawn. They are controlled by the DM and hostile to all creatures they see, except each other.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

