# Chaos Goblin Priest

**description**: The Spider Face tribe’s priests maintain only partial existence within the material world; their minds and consciousnesses exist almost entirely in the Void and outer realms, leaving only their withered and sickly bodies. Their blank faces bear no expression and unnervingly stare outward through their pupilless eyes. Few speak, their lips stitched shut. Instead, they communicate telepathically. Chaos goblin priests sustain themselves with potions and nameless fluids, force-fed by tubes or injected with shunts. Some say the chaos goblin priests do not even bleed and are no longer living creatures. Others contest that the chaos-spawn are no longer goblins but spirits possessing the goblins’ mortal flesh. Chaos goblin priests seek to become reborn—transforming themselves and their followers through arcane surgeries, imbibing foul solutions, and vile orgiastic rituals. Priests and tribe members willingly undergo ritual mutilations to access divine insight or draw power to themselves from the Void. Mutilations include the sacrifice of eyes, the stitching shut of the mouth or removal of the tongue, scarification, or the lopping off of fingers, ears, or even a hand. Priests appear entirely withered, as if all blood was drawn from them. They frequently partake in ritual bloodletting, feeding upon each other’s blood, or perform offerings in which they draw blood and feed it to the Spider God. The deep lines crisscrossing the priests’ withered faces resemble a spider’s webbing. Some of these appear to be self-afflicted scars, highlighting the mystic patterns. If chaos goblin priests spoke, perhaps one might expect to gain more clarity of their connections to the outer realms, their rites, and philosophies. Unfortunately, their history and secrets are their own, incomprehensible. Outsiders can only judge the goblin’s behaviors and actions. TRAITS Alien Mind. Any creature trying to use magical means to read the goblin priest’s thoughts must make a successful DC 14 Wisdom save or take 7 (2d6) psychic damage from exposure to the horrors of the priest’s alien mind. This damage doesn’t prevent the creature from accessing the priest’s mind. ACTIONS Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. Psychic Stab (Recharge 6). The goblin priest targets one creature that it can sense within 30 feet. The target must make a DC 12 Intelligence saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) psychic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The goblin priest casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: guidance, poison spray, resistance, thaumaturgy 3/day each: command, inflict wounds, magic circle, spirit guardians * 1/day each: bestow curse, divination, geas, giant insect *The spirit guardians look like hideous goblin-faced spiders. BONUS ACTIONS Nimble Escape. The goblin priest takes the Disengage or Hide action. Swarm Host (Recharge 6). The goblin priest targets a willing ally to serve as a birthing vessel for a swarm of spiders. The priest must be able to contact the ally telepathically. The targeted creature’s stomach suddenly begins to bloat. The ally falls to the ground and expels a swarm of insects (spiders) from its mouth. The swarm attacks the nearest creature that is not a worshipper of Atlach-Nacha. The swarm dissipates after 10 minutes or when it is destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Goblinoid)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

