# Chaos Spawn, Disharmonious Titan

**description**: A humongous and alien form that has been documented very few times, as the number of sightings of such a creature has never risen into the triple digits for as long as history has been recorded. Other than its size, its power and presence are overwhelming for most creatures, even if no ill intent is shown by the giant aberration. This creature breaks the rules of physics and magic in its surroundings, turning it into a nightmare for both warriors and spellcasters. Aura of Grand Chaos. Within the vicinity of the spawn, gravity ceases to exist and magic is disturbed for all creatures using it, creating a chaotic surge. "Chaos has defined my whole life, but these guys take it to another level. Maybe they'll be friendly, or maybe they'll be murderous. Just be ready for anything you can imagine. Like, crabs. Don't ask." -Fuzi Yuffentan, Wild Magic Sorcerer and Champion of Hermes Chaos Spawn These strange beings take several forms, ranging from humanoid to strange beasts, plant-like forms and even geometrical shapes. Rarely do two spawns look exactly like each other, but you can always recognize one when you see it. The only physical attribute that doesn’t change is the strange appearance that resembles a night sky and the unending cosmos beyond it. Little is known about them, but they are not inherently destructive or aggressive most of the time. Due to their nature being chaotic at its core, all types of temperaments have been observed. From friendly to indifferent, skittish, aggressive and many more. However, it has been discovered that the size of the spawn correlates directly to its power, not unlike dragons, but strangely enough it is not indicative of their age. Such a detail is impossible to measure given the unique physiology of these creatures. The one common trait they all seem to possess outside of their abilities, is the fact that they are wanderers. They travel all over the land, doing whatever it is that their alien minds feel is appropriate at the time. Spawn of Creation. The Chaos Spawn are born from the infinite void of chaos that created the primordial forces of the Material Plane. They are children of the originator of the universe, which in turn has meant that their nature is almost impossible to comprehend. They do not need to breathe, eat or sleep and seem incapable of communicating with creatures that are not their own kind. Furthermore, when they die they occasionally leave behind a single pearl as their body evaporates, which also bears a similar appearance to their strange astral form. Uniquely Chaotic. While they may have brethren in other chaos spawn, they are never exactly the same as another specimen of their kind. Behaviors, tactics, patterns and preferences will always change from one spawn to the next, especially when they have more options to choose from. Wielder of Chaos Magic. Their power is unpredictable at best, life-changing at its worst. Whenever the spawn are agitated or pushed to violent conflict, they tap into a reserve of primordial power, the Void of Chaos. This in turn will cause strange effects to be unleashed on their enemies, themselves and the world around them. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the chaos spawn fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The chaos spawn has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Chaos Surge. Every time the chaos spawn uses its multiattack, spends one of its legendary resistances, uses its primordial storm ability or casts a spell you must roll a d10 to determine the magical effect produced by the chaos surge in one of the Chaos Surge Tables. Spellcasting. The chaos spawn's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At will: mind sliver, misty step, chaos bolt (as a 2nd level spell) 3/day each: arms of hadar, dimension door, phantasmal killer, synaptic static, tasha's hideous laughter, tasha's mind whip (as a 3rd level spell) 1/day each: teleportation, plane shift, wall of force Aura of Grand Chaos (Magic). Any creature that casts a spell or cantrip within 30 feet of the chaos spawn triggers a chaos surge. Aura of Grand Chaos (Gravity). Gravity within 30 feet of the chaos spawn is ever changing. Three effects can take place. Roll a d6 at the start of each turn to determine the effect: 1-2 Gravity becomes oppressively heavy. Creatures within the aura must make a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be incapacitated on the spot, on a success the creature can move but the terrain around the aura counts as magical difficult terrain. 3-4 Gravity behaves as normal. 5-6 Gravity becomes nonexistent. Creatures without a flying speed start drifting 10 feet in a random direction. Actions Multiattack. The chaos spawn uses its otherwordly presence and then makes 2 chaotic touch or chaotic blast attacks followed by a slam attack. Chaotic Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 27 (4d10 + 5) fire, cold, lightning, force or psychic damage. Chaotic Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, reach 90ft., one target. Hit: 27 (4d10 + 5) fire, cold, lightning, force or psychic damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15ft., one target. Hit: 32 (4d12 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Otherworldly Presence. Each creature of the chaos spawn's choice that is within 120 feet of it and aware of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become confused, as if under the effect of the confusion spell, for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the chaos spawn's otherworldly presence for the next 24 hours. Primordial Storm (Recharge 5-6). The chaos spawn calls on the primordial powers responsible for creation, producing a massive surge of chaotic energy in a 60foot radius. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14d8 (14d8) fire, cold, lightning, force or psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions Chaos Spawn, Disharmonious Titan can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Chaos Spawn, Disharmonious Titan regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The chaos spawn can move up to its speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. The chaos spawn can make either a Slam or Chaotic Blast attack. Cast a Spell (costs 2 Actions). The chaos spawn can cast a spell. Bringer of the Storm (costs 3 Actions). The chaos spawn recharges its primordial storm action. Chaos Surge Table E 1d10 Surge Effect 1 The chaos spawn swells and becomes one size category larger, as per the enlarge spell. 2 Radiance rains from the sky as falling stars strike every creature within 30 feet of the chaos spawn, including the chaos spawn, dealing 3d6 radiant damage. All struck creatures must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of their next turn. 3 A portal connected to the plane of water manifests 30 feet above the chaos spawn, covering a 60 foot radius centered on it. Water starts pouring out, any creatures within that range must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or have an octopus latch on to them in a panic. The octopus is not hostile, but simply hanging on to the closest person in a fright, attempting to grapple them. 4 A wave of lethargy sweeps over all creatures within 60 feet of the chaos spawn. All creatures within range, aside from the spawn, must make a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or fall asleep, as per the sleep spell. 5 A random creature within 60 feet of the chaos spawn, which could also include the chaos spawn, must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be polymorphed into a beast of CR ¼ or lower chosen by the DM (no concentration required). 6 All creatures within 30 feet of the chaos spawn must make a DC 14 Intelligence saving throw or only be able to speak goblin for the next hour. 7 Time distorts in a 20 foot radius around the chaos spawn. All creatures caught within that space need to make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or suffer from the effects of the slow spell. 8 A psychic explosion that carries a joke across time and space erupts from the chaos spawn. All creatures within 30 feet, affecting creatures that are also within the ethereal plane, must make a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or fall over laughing, as per the hideous laughter spell. This chaos surge ignores the chaos spawn’s immunity to charm effects. 9 Water starts pouring out of the ground, manifested by dozens of really small geysers. From the water, bubbles start flying up vertically and when they pop a melody rings out throughout the air. 10 Loose objects come to life around the spawn, as the animate objects spell is cast. All animated objects are controlled by the chaos spawn. Chaos Surge Table F 1d10 Surge Effect 1 Within 60 feet of the chaos spawn three pools of ooze manifest, which cover a space of a 10 feet radius each. Creatures that step in the pool for the first time or that start their turn within it take 2d6 acid damage and their movement speed is reduced by 10 feet until the end of their next turn. The pools do not damage the environment around them and wiggle playfully when in contact with a creature. 2 A crab wielding a very expensive-looking knife manifests from the closest water source. If there is no river or lake nearby it will magically appear from a waterskin carried by the player characters. It is friendly, but cautious. If spoken to while under the effect of the speak with animals spell the crab will reveal that it’s name is Crabbius the Mighty, a champion of the sea. 3 The area around the spawn trembles as it casts the bones of the earth spell, targeting the spaces under 6 random creatures within range 4 Three humanoid-looking statues pop up from the ground in a 30 foot radius around the chaos spawn. They are crude and childish looking, but their arms are heavy and weighted. If a creature comes within 5 feet of one of the statues, the statues will perform an unarmed strike on them. The statue has a +6 to hit and does 3d6 bludgeoning damage on a successful hit. The statues have 25 hit points each, are immune to psychic and poison damage, and have a speed of zero. If there is no ground in the vicinity, reroll on the table. 5 Mouths appear on every surface within 30 feet of the chaos spawn. The mouths start shouting all sorts of phrases. From one-sided conversations, to filthy insults, rhymes and poetry, the mouths remain for the next minute, after which they fade away. 6 The chaos spawn casts flame strike . 7 The sun (or the moon, at night) is eclipsed for 10 minutes. 8 An awakened animal, such as a wolf, cat, elk or bear appears within 15 feet of a random creature in the vicinity of the spawn. The animal will shout encouraging phrases to all creatures that go within 15 feet of them for the next hour. After the hour has passed the animal will seemingly lose sentience and behave like any other of its kind would. 9 An alien presence creeps into the consciousness of nearby creatures, causing visions of the horrors that lurk in the spaces between the stars assault their mind. All creatures within 15 feet of the chaos spawn must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or suffer a bout of short-term madness. 10 A weapon within 30 feet of the chaos spawn, that is being wielded by another creature, becomes sentient. The weapon knows all the languages its wielder knows, with an intelligence, Wisdom and Charisma of 10. The weapon is of True Neutral alignment and is fascinated with its new existence and the world around it. The weapon now counts as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistances, if it wasn’t magical before, but requires attunement to gain this benefit.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

