# Chaos Creeper

**description**: Fan-shaped, golden leaves spread out above the trunk of the plant. Pitcher-shaped fruit hangs from its branches. The chaos creeper is a lithophyte that grows on rocky outcroppings in highlands and foothills. Veteran explorers and adventurers keep a sharp eye out for them since the plant's healing properties can mean the difference between life and death. Unfortunately, the results of its magic are unpredictable. Fey Creation. The arborists of the fey courts originally created the chaos creepers to bedevil mortals and entertain fey nobility. Imbued with fey sentience, chaos creepers do their best to cajole or dupe non-fey into taking their delicious, magical fruit. A creature that takes a fruit without giving something in exchange is likely to meet with a nasty surprise, but the chaos creeper rarely shares that information, especially with those it finds rude or uptight. Pandemonium Fruit. The chaos creeper produces pitcher-shaped magical fruit. When a creature picks a fruit, it is subjected to the chaos creeper's Wondrous Cornucopia trait. A fruit withers 24 hours after being picked, losing all magic. If a creature expends a spell slot of 3rd level or higher or volunteers some of its life force while picking the fruit, it can choose which Wondrous Cornucopia effect happens instead of determining the effect randomly. A creature volunteering its life force must spend two Hit Dice, rolling the dice and losing hp equal to the total. Wondrous Cornucopia. A creature that picks one of the chaos creeper's fruits or that is struck by the creeper's Fruit Bomb triggers the chaotic magic within the fruit. Roll a d8 to determine which of the following effects happens: Butterfly Cloud. The fruit explodes into a cloud of butterflies, swirling out in a 30-foot radius from the fruit for 1 minute, making the area heavily obscured. Restoration. A creature eating the fruit ends one condition, disease, or any reduction to one of its ability scores, or it reduces its exhaustion level by one. Poison Gas. The fruit bursts into a cloud of red gas in a 20-foot radius centered on the fruit. The area is heavily obscured and lasts for 1 minute or until dispersed by a strong wind. When a creature enters the cloud for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Healing. A creature eating the fruit regains 22 (5d8) hp. Swarming Insects. The fruit bursts, releasing 2d4 swarms of insects. Protection. A creature eating the fruit gains resistance to acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder damage (determined randomly) for 8 hours. Squirrel Transformation. A creature eating the fruit must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or transform into a squirrel for 10 minutes. Cleansing. All curses and diseases afflicting a creature end when it eats the fruit. Actions Multiattack. The chaos creeper makes three Vine Whip attacks or two Fruit Bomb attacks. Vine Whip. Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Fruit Bomb. Ranged Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 31 (5d10 + 4) acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder damage (the chaos creeper's choice). Instead of dealing damage, the chaos creeper can choose for the fruit to trigger its Wondrous Cornucopia trait. Treat the target as if it ate the fruit, where applicable.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

