# Chaos Spawn

**description**: These strange beings take several forms, ranging from humanoid to strange beasts, plant-like forms and even geometrical shapes. Rarely do two spawns look exactly like each other, but you can always recognize one when you see it. The only physical attribute that doesn’t change is the strange appearance that resembles a night sky and the unending cosmos beyond it. Little is known about them, but they are not inherently destructive or aggressive most of the time. Due to their nature being chaotic at its core, all types of temperaments have been observed. From friendly to indifferent, skittish, aggressive and many more. However, it has been discovered that the size of the spawn correlates directly to its power, not unlike dragons, but strangely enough it is not indicative of their age. Such a detail is impossible to measure given the unique physiology of these creatures. The one common trait they all seem to possess outside of their abilities, is the fact that they are wanderers. They travel all over the land, doing whatever it is that their alien minds feel is appropriate at the time. Spawn of Creation. The Chaos Spawn are born from the infinite void of chaos that created the primordial forces of the Material Plane. They are children of the originator of the universe, which in turn has meant that their nature is almost impossible to comprehend. They do not need to breathe, eat or sleep and seem incapable of communicating with creatures that are not their own kind. Furthermore, when they die they occasionally leave behind a single pearl as their body evaporates, which also bears a similar appearance to their strange astral form. Uniquely Chaotic. While they may have brethren in other chaos spawn, they are never exactly the same as another specimen of their kind. Behaviors, tactics, patterns and preferences will always change from one spawn to the next, especially when they have more options to choose from. Wielder of Chaos Magic. Their power is unpredictable at best, life-changing at its worst. Whenever the spawn are agitated or pushed to violent conflict, they tap into a reserve of primordial power, the Void of Chaos. This in turn will cause strange effects to be unleashed on their enemies, themselves and the world around them. Traits Chaos Surge. Every time the chaos spawn uses its chaotic touch or casts a spell you must roll a d6 to determine the magical effect produced by the chaos surge in one of the Chaos Surge Tables. Spellcasting. The chaos spawn's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At will: vicious mockery, misty step 2/day each: chaos bolt, tasha's hideous laughter, tasha's mind whip Magic Resistance. The chaos spawn has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Chaotic Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) fire, cold, lightning, force or psychic damage. Chaos Surge Table A 1d6 Surge Effect 1 The chaos spawn summons a donkey 30 feet above the target of its spell or ability. If the spell or ability has no target, the donkey appears over the chaos spawn. Both the donkey and the creature it lands on take 3d6 bludgeoning damage from the inevitable fall, or the creature under the donkey takes no damage with a successful DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. 2 Wine rains from the sky in a 30-foot radius around the chaos spawn for 1 minute. 3 The chaos spawn casts hypnotic pattern centered on itself. 4 For 1 minute, a gust of wind spell blows out from the chaos spawn in all Directions, with a DC 12 Strength saving throw. 5 The chaos spawn casts healing word on a target of its choice. 6 The chaos spawn sprouts insect-like wings, giving it a flying speed of 30 feet. The wings last for 1 minute. Chaos Surge Table B 1d6 Surge Effect 1 A shockwave emanates from the chaos spawn. All creatures within 30ft of the chaos spawn take 1d4 force damage, and must perform a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. 2 The terrain around the chaos spawn starts to shift and mutate as per the effects of the spike growth spell, centered on itself. 3 The chaos spawn summons a swarm of rats in the nearest available space. The rats are, understandably, under the Frightened condition and will use their action to run as far away as possible. 4 The air around the chaos spawn suddenly explodes with miasma. All creatures within 10ft of the chaos spawn must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for one minute. 5 The next person to attack or target the chaos spawn with an ability or spell will fall under the reduce effect of the enlarge/reduce spell. 6 Regardless of climate, a cloud forms overhead and a snowstorm rages in a 120ft radius to the chaos spawn for 2d6 rounds. Visibility becomes poor and attacks that rely on sight have disadvantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

