# Child of the Silver Sphere

**description**: A beautiful human child wearing gossamer robes playfully twirls a lock of her long auburn hair. The child wears a broad smile, and her silvery eyes glow faintly. Children of the silver sphere are aliens that can travel at will throughout the cosmos. Some who know of them say they have visited a thousand worlds and might even have the ability to shift between planes, dimensions, and time. Their motives and intents lie beyond mortal understanding. When they appear on the Material Plane, they always do so in the guise of a small child with gleaming silver eyes. Why they choose this form is unknown, though some speculate it is because the image is not intimidating. Although not outwardly predatory, they are highly manipulative, suggesting they are interested in experimenting with and learning more about creatures from other worlds. Stratified. Children of the silver sphere create highly structured systems for interacting with each other. Each creature has a specific role and adheres to a certain behavior identifiable by other group members. These mannerisms include speech patterns and gestures, though most are too subtle for those outside their group to detect. Influence Wielders. Children of the silver sphere use their considerable intelligence and psychic powers to influence less intelligent mortals to treat them as deities. They frequently demand that followers bring sacrifices and tributes or perform certain quests or rituals. Sometimes these demands align with the belief systems of existing gods; other times, they fabricate the demands entirely. Grotesque. A child of the silver sphere’s true form resembles a pair of bloated lungs from which droop six long, slender, mucus-covered tentacles surrounding a dangling, articulated hook-shaped spike like the leg of a giant crab. Within the center of the creature’s body floats a pulsing silvery orb. TRAITS Shapechanger. The child of the silver sphere can use its action to polymorph into a Medium humanoid form that resembles a beautiful human child, with pale silver eyes and dressed in fine robes, or back into its true form. Its statistics remain the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. ACTIONS Multiattack. The child of the silver sphere makes two Tentacle attacks and one Metastoma attack. If it is grappling creatures with all six of its tentacles, it can still attack with its metastoma. In addition, while grappling an opponent, the child can use a bonus action to activate its Psychic Link on that creature. Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 13) if it is a Medium or smaller creature. Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained and has disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. Metastoma. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. The target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The child of the silver sphere casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: comprehend languages, dancing lights, detect magic, detect thoughts, invisibility, message, minor illusion 3/day each: clairvoyance, dispel magic, faerie fire, hypnotic pattern, sleep BONUS ACTIONS Psychic Link. One creature grappled by the child must succeed on a DC 14 Intelligence saving throw, or the target becomes stunned and psychically linked to it. The child can read the target’s thoughts and communicate with the target telepathically. If the child takes damage while linked to the target, it transfers half of the damage to the target as psychic damage. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

