# Chimera Companion (PB 5)

**description**: Massive flexing claws. Lashing draconic tail. Nimble leathery wings. And not one, but three menacing heads: a snarling lion, a helix-horned ram, and a dragon with fire sparking in its throat. Many see the chimera as an aggres- sor, but few know its origins as a divine guardian. The First Chimera. The first chimera was a gift. A deity gave a devout queen this young guardian—one with the intelligence of a dragon, the bravery of a lion, and the tenacity of a ram. The queen raised the chimera to be a strong protector of not just her person, but of her people, who loved the chimera and their ruler. But neighboring lands feared the monstrosity. As a conquering force swept into the land, their first defilement of peace was slaughter- ing the chimera. The queen’s resulting fury was said to be felt by the gods. As she screamed, a nearby volcano erupted, spew- ing basalt and chimeras over the land. With fiery might, the chimeras overtook the opposing army and dispersed. Each found a new territory and claimed the role of divine protector over that place, its inhabitants, and its treasures. Fiercely Faithful. When a chimera acts as a guardian, almost nothing can shake that loyalty. They are viciously territorial over objects, creatures, and founts of magic they defend. Even when the charges they defend turn wicked, chimeras remain faithful, willing to lay down their lives. Corrupted Loyalty. Mortals who earn a chimera’s trust can tempt and train the monstrosity to bring out the worst of their three parts: a dragon’s greed, a lion’s pride, and a goat’s stubbornness. Such chimeras happily serve evil mortals. Tactical Warriors. Chimeras have many ways to keep themselves and their charges from being cornered. The lion head snaps up enemies in massive jaws and hurls them away, the ram head pummels them to the ground, and the dragon head bathes them in fire. The sound of the three heads crying together can shake even the most stalwart warriors. One Being, Three Heads. Unlike many other multi- headed creatures, a chimera has a single mind. Their heads work together, never snapping at one another over food, favors, or personality conflicts. The heads often express the chimera’s emotions in unison, braying together in times of battle or purring all at once to show affection. Actions Signature Attack (Bite). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB piercing damage. 1st Level: Ram’s Defense (2 Ferocity). The chimera makes a signature attack. On a hit, the attack imposes disadvantage on the target’s next attack roll made before the start of the chimera’s next turn. 3rd Level: Lion’s Leap (5 Ferocity). The chimera moves up to half their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. If they end this movement on the ground, each creature within 5 feet of them must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. 5th Level: Volcanic Blow (8 Ferocity). The chimera spits an explosion of fire at a point they can see within 60 feet of them. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw, taking PBd6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Protective Absorption (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the chimera’s caregiver takes damage while within 60 feet of the chimera, half the damage taken (rounded up) is transferred to the chimera.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

