# Chironist Mage

**description**: Mages of the School of Chiron are not your standard Wizards, for they have created unique magical runes that are able to absorb magic from the world around them, named Cyphers. Although still capable of using traditional magic, Mages perfect the highly specialized magic of their Cyphers for maximum efficiency when on the hunt for monsters. They combine their unique spellcasting along with some very competent swordsmanship to catch their opponents off guard. Out of all members of the School of Chiron they are the most focused on swift movement and dodging, which makes them great hit-and-run tactics specialists. The School of Chiron A subset of a monster-hunting order of blood-magic users known as Blood Hunters who broke away from the darker, blood magic and mutation-filled path that their order is known for. Their creation is owed to the action of one of the Master Blood Hunters, Kanan Reindhart, who wanted to distance future members of the order away from the occult and dark ways of the times of old, when the death of apprentices was far too common. In order to complete this shift in direction Kanan sought the assistance of a legendary figure, Chiron the immortal centaur. This man was known for many things, among them being the teacher for several heroes of legend such as Jason, Heracles and even Achilles. With his experience, knowledge and skill the new warriors would be able to compensate for the loss of the dark magic formerly used by the order. As a result, the next generations were able to flourish in new ways, without the heinous loss of life that the dark magic presented as a risk. Now these new monster slayers start taking their first steps into the world as a new order, the School of Chiron. Sins of the Order. Despite their new path in life, the School of Chiron still has to carry the weight of the Blood Hunters’ reputation, making them a bit of an outlier as far as social acceptance goes. There are places that do not treat them or their former order with such disdain, but they are few and far between. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Magic Weapons. The mage's weapon attacks are magical. Spellcasting. The mage's Spellcasting Ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). They can cast the following spells: 3/day each: magic weapon, shield 2/day each: absorb elements, elemental weapon, expeditious retreat 1/day each: counterspell Actions Multiattack. The mage makes two shortsword attacks and uses one of their cyphers. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. Cypher of Flame (2/day). The mage manifests the arcane symbol for fire, unleashing a torrent of flame. Any creature in a 30 foot cone must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 21 (6d6) fire damage, taking half as much on a successful save. Cypher of Force (3/day). The mage throws their hand forward and a wave of kinetic force is unleashed. Any creature in a 15 foot cone must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or take 14 (4d6) force damage and be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone, taking half as much on a successful save and not being pushed or knocked prone. Cypher of Power (2/day). The mage makes a magical gesture, subtly trying to reach their opponent's nervous system. The mage chooses a creature within 30 feet, the creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the mage's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

