# Chironist Alchemist

**description**: The School of Chiron takes theoretical learning just as seriously as physical training, which meant that students could choose to specialize in specific paths if they so wished. The alchemist is a specialist on potion-making, usage of poisons and complementary usage of magic. Although they’re no slouch with a sword, their true strength lies in their potions, which can present a variety of effects. From granting them magical empowerment to acting as powerful magic conduits, the alchemists have many tricks for all kinds of situations. The School of Chiron A subset of a monster-hunting order of blood-magic users known as Blood Hunters who broke away from the darker, blood magic and mutation-filled path that their order is known for. Their creation is owed to the action of one of the Master Blood Hunters, Kanan Reindhart, who wanted to distance future members of the order away from the occult and dark ways of the times of old, when the death of apprentices was far too common. In order to complete this shift in direction Kanan sought the assistance of a legendary figure, Chiron the immortal centaur. This man was known for many things, among them being the teacher for several heroes of legend such as Jason, Heracles and even Achilles. With his experience, knowledge and skill the new warriors would be able to compensate for the loss of the dark magic formerly used by the order. As a result, the next generations were able to flourish in new ways, without the heinous loss of life that the dark magic presented as a risk. Now these new monster slayers start taking their first steps into the world as a new order, the School of Chiron. Sins of the Order. Despite their new path in life, the School of Chiron still has to carry the weight of the Blood Hunters’ reputation, making them a bit of an outlier as far as social acceptance goes. There are places that do not treat them or their former order with such disdain, but they are few and far between. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Magic Weapons. The alchemist's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The alchemist makes two longsword attacks and throws a bomb. Longsword (One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage. Longsword (Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) slashing damage. Fire Bomb. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) fire damage. On a hit the creature catches fire; until someone takes an action to douse the fire, the creature takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. Ichor Bomb. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 60ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) acid damage. On a hit the creature is restrained by sticky, alchemical goo. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 14 Strength check, bursting through the goo on a success. Bonus Actions Alchemical Coating (2/day). The alchemist coats a melee weapon or 10 pieces of ammunition with a special potion. For the next minute the weapon or ammunition deals an additional 7 (2d6) poison, acid or necrotic damage on a hit. Rejuvenating Elixir (1/day). The alchemist imbibes a crimson elixir, healing 25 hit points and curing the poisoned condition. Draught of Endurance (1/day). The alchemist imbibes a sickly green liquid, gaining resistance to slashing, piercing, and bludgeoning damage for 1 minute. After the minute has passed the alchemist gains a level of exhaustion.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

