# Chironist Warrior

**description**: Without the aid of occult powers enhancing their physicality,the chironists needed the edge only a legendary teacher could provide in order to stand against the dark forces that threaten to swallow the world of mortals. And so, their training brought a whole new level of skills to the table. Warriors are the martial specialists of the School of Chiron, being easily the sturdiest among their ilk. Combining that durability with extensive weapon training, as well as martial arts practice, puts them above most of the physical threats that haunt humanoids in the world. They are masters of combat, carrying and being able to use multiple weapons. Great heavy-set swords, hammers and axes, dual blades, bows and crossbows are all easily within the skill set of these warriors, and they carry more than a single weapon. If you’re lucky you might even spot all of them. Furthermore, they are excellent at enchanting their weaponry, giving it elemental properties, along with enhanced capabilities to go beyond the physical limits of their design. The School of Chiron A subset of a monster-hunting order of blood-magic users known as Blood Hunters who broke away from the darker, blood magic and mutation-filled path that their order is known for. Their creation is owed to the action of one of the Master Blood Hunters, Kanan Reindhart, who wanted to distance future members of the order away from the occult and dark ways of the times of old, when the death of apprentices was far too common. In order to complete this shift in direction Kanan sought the assistance of a legendary figure, Chiron the immortal centaur. This man was known for many things, among them being the teacher for several heroes of legend such as Jason, Heracles and even Achilles. With his experience, knowledge and skill the new warriors would be able to compensate for the loss of the dark magic formerly used by the order. As a result, the next generations were able to flourish in new ways, without the heinous loss of life that the dark magic presented as a risk. Now these new monster slayers start taking their first steps into the world as a new order, the School of Chiron. Sins of the Order. Despite their new path in life, the School of Chiron still has to carry the weight of the Blood Hunters’ reputation, making them a bit of an outlier as far as social acceptance goes. There are places that do not treat them or their former order with such disdain, but they are few and far between. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Brave. The warrior has advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the warrior hits with it (included in the attack). Indomitable (2/Day). The warrior can reroll a saving throw they fail. They must use the new roll. Magic Weapons. The warrior's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The warrior makes three weapon attacks in any combination. Flame Tongue Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Sonic Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage. On a hit, if the target is a creature they must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 9 (2d8) thunder damage and be deafened for 1 minute, taking half as much on a success and preventing the deafness. They can repeat the saving throw at the end of their next turn, recovering from the deafness on a success. Storm Crossbow. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 100/400ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage. On a hit, if the target is a creature they must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) lightning damage, taking half as much on a success. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is also stunned until the end of their next turn. Bonus Actions Second Wind (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The warrior regains 20 hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

