# Chwinga Astronaut

**description**: Chwingas that live in Wildspace usually dwell on habitable moons and asteroids, though they occasionally stow away on spelljamming ships or ride around on space guppies (described later in this book). Using its Magical Gift ability, a chwinga astronaut can bestow one of the following charms in place of those described in the Dungeon Master’s Guide. Charm of Air Bubbles This charm allows you to cast the air bubble spell (see the Astral Adventurer’s Guide ) as an action. Once used three times, this charm goes away. Charm of Instant Tools This charm allows you to magically conjure a set of artisan’s tools, navigator’s tools, or thieves’ tools. The conjured tools appear either in your hand or somewhere else in your space (your choice). Once used, this charm goes away, but the tools remain. Chwinga Chwingas are tiny elemental spirits that adapt easily to any habitable environment. These gentle creatures protect nature, considering themselves as its humble custodians. Chwingas live inside plants, rocks, and springs far from civilization. Chwingas resemble 6-inch-tall, animated dolls with mask-like faces, spindly limbs, and wild hair. They don’t have names and can’t speak. Chwingas normally avoid other creatures, but they find the trappings of civilization fascinating. They puzzle over creatures that wear armor, carry weapons, use tools, and cook food. When a chwinga encounters one or more such creatures, its curiosity compels it to shadow them for a short time and observe them. If it takes a liking to a particular creature, a chwinga uses its cantrips to aid that creature, or bestows upon it a magical gift before departing. The features that attract a chwinga to a particular creature vary. A chwinga might like the way a certain creature walks or the way it combs its hair, or be smitten by its ability to play music or to eat copious amounts of food. Traits Evasion. When the chwinga is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, it instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Unusual Nature. The chwinga doesn’t require air, food, or drink. When it dies, it turns into a tiny pile of moondust, a cloud of glittering spores, a statuette resembling its former self, a chunk of ice, or a sponge shaped like a dodecahedron (DM’s choice). Actions Magical Gift (1/Day). The chwinga targets a Humanoid it can see within 5 feet of itself. The target gains a supernatural charm of the DM’s choice. See the Dungeon Master’s Guide for more information on supernatural charms. Natural Shelter. The chwinga takes shelter inside a rock, a bush, a tree, or a natural source of fresh water in its space. The chwinga can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect while it is magically protected in this way, and the shelter doesn’t inhibit the chwinga’s blindsight. The chwinga can use its action to emerge from a shelter. If its shelter is destroyed, the chwinga is forced out and appears in the shelter’s space, but is otherwise unharmed. Spellcasting. The chwinga casts one of the following spells, requiring no material or verbal components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability: At will: druidcraft, guidance, pass without trace, resistance

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: TIny
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: typically neutral evil
- Expansion: 16643
- Challenge Rating: 0

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Spelljammer - Adventures in Space

