# Citrine Bahtera

**description**: You ask about what we could learn from the Bahtera. I ask, “What makes you think they want to talk to you?” Go out there and ask if you want. I am perfectly fine being very much ignorant and very much alive. Bahtera Bahtera are large lizard-like creatures with a hardened scale hide and six limbs, two of which can function as both arms and legs. They are a common type of primordial, beings evolved directly from the elemental building blocks of the universe. The question of how they came to be has yet to be answered, even by the bahtera themselves. Spawn of Bahrelis. Bahtera, like most primordials, are some of the oldest beings in the galaxy. They were originally born from the surface of Bahrelis, a planet-sized entity with its own intelligence and self-awareness. Over time, bahtera lairs spawned in nearby systems in the Rim Sectors, eventually expanding to many more systems closer to the galactic core. Today, it's not uncommon for a bahtera lair to be found on even the most desolate planets. No one knows what became of Bahrelis itself, however. Born from the Elements. All bahtera have a thick hide with scales bearing a stone-like texture and hardness. In addition, rows of gemstone-like spikes protrude from their skin. These spike growths identify the elemental nature of the bahtera, as each one is integrally linked to one of the universal forces of creation. This grants each type certain innate abilities, including the ability to wield the channeling powers of the espers. They defend themselves with crafted gem-like weapons akin to their nature. When all else fails, they can hurl hardened stone spikes from their tails. The Talkurr. Bahtera of the same type often develop and lair together in isolated areas beneath a planet's surface or within a region heavy with rock formations, if any. All bahtera, however, view each other as kin sharing the same language and system of writing. They refer to each other as "talkurr," which in their language loosely translates to "part of the greater." Evolutionary Calling. The bahtera of today are far different from those born thousands of years ago. The first spawn of Bahrelis were far weaker and more susceptible to their ever-changing environment. As children of the elements, many view themselves as superior to other species, with some demanding tribute from those they deem lesser, or using them for forced labor or food. Most bahtera groups establish a structured, tribal society. Ancient Technologies. Most bahtera tribes are not as technologically developed as modern, spacefaring species, but are able to use their surrounding resources to build fortified structures shaped and imbued with strange elemental or cosmic power. The lairs of the most powerful of the bahtera tribes are a wonder to behold. There are rumors of large devices hidden within these lairs that can create spatial rifts leading to other distant parts of the galaxy. Distant Kin. The matokai are rumored to be an offshoot of the bahtera, even sharing the same ancient language. While the matokai take enormous pride in their history and culture, the bahtera despise their distant cousins, viewing them with the utmost contempt. Azurite Bahtera Dwellers of rocky crags surrounded by great oceans or frozen wastelands, these bahtera (known among their kind as "zeotis") pride themselves on being strong, stalwart, and fearless. They have silvery gray scales with spikes of brilliant deep blue. Unyielding Might. Strength and fortitude are the most respected traits among the zeotis. They constantly test themselves and each other with physical feats of might and endurance, and of course, their victories in battle against worthy opponents. They are not the least bit kind-hearted to any other creatures, living or artificial, but can be made to show a begrudging respect for those who courageously stand firm against their raw power. The Cold and the Deep. Azurite bahtera settle on small, solitary landmasses surrounded by large water-based bodies. Their affinity for the cold also attracts them to icy wastelands, glaciers, or the surface of frozen moons. Baryte Bahtera As the most aloof among their kin, the baryte bahtera, known as "ceowir" consider themselves to be far above the concerns of other species, including other bahtera of the talkurr. Their have deep brown- or gray-colored scales. Their spikes are clear with tinges of yellow or light blue and radiate dim light in a 10-foot radius when in darkness. Empyrean Rulers. Power and greatness are as important to the baryte bahtera as the air that gives them life. They amass wealth in both money and resources, though for control and prestige rather than greed. As children of the sky and stars, the ceowir define themselves with lavish titles akin to emperor, prince, or sovereign. They tend to be far less overtly savage or cruel than some other bahtera, considering themselves to be above such things. To Reach the Stars. Baryte bahtera lair in grand fortresses in lofty mountainous regions or atop landmasses that float above the surface of a planet. These aerial strongholds often bear a seal or crest signifying their tribal name along with symbols that bear resemblance to the local sun, moon, or constellations. Citrine Bahtera Known as "jateren" among members of the talkurr, these bahtera are considered the most primitive and barbaric of their kin. They have reddish-brown scales and bright, golden-yellow spikes. Primitive Savages. Jataren delight in hunting and despoiling weaker or smaller creatures and settlements. They have a barbaric mindset combined with a bahtera's sense of entitlement, which makes them both dangerous and difficult to reason with. They loathe culturally developed societies and settlements and view advanced technology as a bane to be eradicated. The pride of a citrine bahtera is easily wounded, offering it immediate justification for unleashing its anger upon the offender. Underworld Residents. Underground caverns, caves, and tunnels beneath a planet's surface are where citrine bahtera lair. Alternatively, they can also be found in desolate badlands or in secluded areas deep within deserts or rocky wastes. Jadeite Bahtera Among their talkurr kin, these bahtera are known as "raslant." They are peaceful and amiable, viewing themselves as guardians of other living species and sworn enemies of defilers and plaguebringers. They have light brown scales and spikes that range in color from light blue-green to dark green. Bastions of the Living. Raslant enjoy the beauty of all forms of flourishing life, often nesting within the ground of planets abundant with wild flora and fauna. For their love of such things, however, they are just as fierce against any force that would disturb the natural balance near their home. So long as their territory is not threatened by other developing or conquering species, or creatures seeking to bring plague and disease, they remain at least cordial if not friendly. Reclusive Guardians. Though mostly peaceful, jadeite bahtera still prefer to lair in reclusive areas such as caves or tunnels beneath a hillside or mountainside, preferably near a patch of flora or a body of water. More developed tribes of jadeite bahtera fashion a system of tunnels and caverns beneath large forests or mountainous regions. Rhodolite Bahtera Few seek to incur the fiery wrath of the rhodolite bahtera. Known as "lojama" among their kin, they are master warriors and fierce combatants. They claim their brutality against other species as their birthright. They have dark, ashen-gray scales and pronounced spikes that range in color between deep purples and reds. Masters of War. A lojama's name only has worth with tales of victory in battle behind it. A rhodolite bahtera lair is made up of manufacturing plants for forging weapons and fortifications. Unlike their azurite kin, rhodolite bahtera are an organized militant force, more concerned with success of their mission as a team over their own egos. They do little work on their own, often enslaving weaker creatures for developing gear-forged constructs and machinery. Forgers and Crafters. Rhodolite bahtera love the art of crafting as much as the art of war. Their lairs are vast, grand structures of mineral and metalwork, strengthened with modern methods of hardening and fortifying their materials. Though rare, it is even possible to find use of advanced polymers and fibers used by other developed civilizations. Rhodolite weapons are always forged from a combination of mineral and sorium melding.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: primordial
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

