# Claw of Sha'argon

**description**: The aboleths created the lobster-like chuuls as living weapons and unleashed them against the sahuagin. The high priests of the Eternal Dominion responded by consuming the chuuls and taking their power. A Claw of Sha’argon is a mighty sahuagin champion—an armored powerhouse possessing deep faith and wielding divine power. While barons lead sahuagin into battle, the Claws of Sha’argon are the spiritual leaders of the Eternal Dominion who lead its inquisitions and crush its enemies with claw and spell. Claw and Tentacle. The powerful claws of a sahuagin priest are deadly weapons. It manipulates objects and casts spells using its facial tentacles. These tentacles are fully prehensile limbs capable of delicate work, but a Claw of Sha’argon has disadvantage on Strength checks made using its tentacles. Devoted Priests. Only the greatest spiritual leaders of the sahuagin are nominated for the ritual that produces a Claw of Sha’argon, and only those possessing the most unshakable faith survive this agonizing process. The Claws of Sha’argon see themselves as chosen vessels of the Devourer, channeling the fury of the wild. A Claw of Sha’argon casts spells as an 11th-level spellcaster, and those spells listed are typical for a Claw of Sha’argon, but can be replaced with any spell available to a Tempest cleric. Sahuagin The sahuagin dominate the Thunder Sea. Proud and predatory, the sahuagin see the creatures of the surface world as primitive and weak. The sahuagin are generally content to ignore the lesser creatures that dwell above the water, but when there is blood in the water, they are implacable and deadly foes. Through magebreeding and induced mutation they have created a host of terrors, such as the duplicitous malenti, the four-armed barons, the shapeshifting plasmids, and the terrifying Claws of Sha’argon. Traits Blood Frenzy. The Claw of Sha’argon has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn’t have all its hit points. Limited Amphibiousness. The Claw of Sha’argon can breathe air and water, but it needs to be submerged at least once every 4 hours to avoid suffocating. Toughened Carapace. Any critical hit against the Claw of Sha’argon becomes a normal hit. Shark Telepathy. The Claw of Sha’argon can magically command any shark within 120 feet of it, using a limited telepathy. Spellcasting. The Claw of Sha’argon is a 11-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). The Claw of Sha’argon has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): guidance, mending, resistance, thaumaturgy, toll the dead XGE 1st level (4 slots): bane, command, inflict wounds, shield of faith 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, hold person, spiritual weapon 3rd level (3 slots): bestow curse, dispel magic, spirit guardians 4th level (3 slots): banishment, freedom of movement 5th level (2 slots): contagion, flame strike 6th level (1 slot): harm Actions Multiattack. The Claw of Sha’argon makes one attack with its crushing claw, one attack with its cutter claw, and casts one spell. Crushing Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Cutter Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d12 + 5) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Humanoid (sahuagin)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 20973
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Exploring Eberron

