# Cloaker Lord

**description**: Cloaker Lords are huge shadows that take to the air, having an average wingspan of 30 feet. They are the highly intelligent supreme leaders and rulers of all cloakerkind and sometimes lead their kin in daring raids against Underdark drow, svirfneblin, and illithid communities. However, cloaker lords prefer to stay within the confines of their lairs, sending out cloakers to scout and do their bidding. They are never without at least half a dozen cloakers nearby as bodyguards. In combat, a cloaker lord will rarely put itself within an enemy's reach, usually staying well behind its minions with its phantasms activated. It prefers to use only its spells and ranged abilities to defeat its foes, approaching a defeated foe only to dine on it. Traits Damage Transfer. While attached to a creature, the cloaker lord takes only half the damage dealt to it (rounded down) and that creature takes the other half. False Appearance. If the cloaker lord is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the cloaker lord move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the cloaker lord is animate. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the cloaker lord fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Light Sensitivity. While in bright light, the cloaker lord has disadvantage on attack rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The cloaker lord uses Command Cloaker. It then makes two attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Tail. Alternatively, it can use Moan and make one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage, and if the target is Huge or smaller, the cloaker lord attaches to it. lf the cloaker lord has advantage against the target, the cloaker lord attaches to the target's head, and the target is blinded and unable to breathe while the cloaker lord is attached. While attached, the cloaker lord can make this attack only against the target and has advantage on the attack roll. The cloaker lord can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its movement. A creature, including the target, can take its action to detach the cloaker lord by succeeding on a DC 19 Strength check. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage. Command Cloaker. The cloaker lord targets an allied cloaker within 30 feet that can see and hear the cloaker lord. The target uses its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one melee attack. Moan. Each creature within 60 feet of the cloaker lord that can hear its moan and that isn't an aberration must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature that fails the save by 5 or more is also paralyzed for the same duration. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the cloaker lord's Moan for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting (Psionics). The cloaker lord casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: darkness, invisibility, phantasmal force 2/day each: dominate person, Evard's black tentacles, hold monster, major image, negative energy flood, stinking cloud 1/day each: maddening darkness, plane shift Phantasms (Recharge 5–6). The cloaker lord magically creates four illusory duplicates of itself if it isn't in bright light. The duplicates move with it and mimic its actions, shifting position so as to make it impossible to track which cloaker lord is the real one. If the cloaker lord is ever in an area of bright light, the duplicates disappear. Whenever any creature targets the cloaker lord with an attack or a harmful spell while a duplicate remains, that creature rolls randomly to determine whether it targets the cloaker lord or one of the duplicates. A creature is unaffected by this magical effect if it can't see or if it relies on senses other than sight. A duplicate has the cloaker lord's AC and uses its saving throws. If an attack hits a duplicate, or if a duplicate fails a saving throw against an effect that deals damage, the duplicate disappears. Legendary Actions The cloaker lord can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The cloaker lord regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tail. The cloaker lord makes a Tail attack. Command Cloaker. The cloaker lord uses Command Cloaker. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The cloaker uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

