# Clockwork Tactician

**description**: A gleaming silver humanoid, fashioned to appear attired in military garb, deftly twirls a silver weapon that combines features from a hammer, a pick, and a sword. Battlefield Smarts. Clockwork tacticians are savants in combat but can't engage in conversational topics outside tactics and strategy. They work well as lieutenants in active combat, for they can assess current conditions and issue advantageous orders to those in their command. Likewise, they serve as capable advisors to commanders preplanning war strategy. Clockwork tacticians given suitable intelligence about troops, terrain, and other variables quickly determine winning maneuvers. Principled Fighters. The constructs desire to serve on the battlefield and engineer their plans to include their contributions. They don't engage in wanton slaughter and readily accept any opponents' offers of surrender. However, clockwork tacticians only allow an opponent to fool them once with a false surrender. Unwieldy Weapon. A clockwork tactician battles with a weapon uniquely suited to it, allowing it to land the most devastating attack based on its evaluation of its enemy. In the hands of a creature other than the tactician, the weapon is treated as a two-handed martial weapon, and its damage type can be changed as a bonus action. Construct Nature. The clockwork tactician doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Immutable Form. The clockwork tactician is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The clockwork tactician has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The tactician's weapon attacks are magical. Pack Tactics. This clockwork tactician has advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of this tactician's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The clockwork tactician makes four Multiweapon attacks. Multiweapon. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage. The clockwork tactician chooses the damage type when it attacks. Heavy Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 100/400 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) piercing damage. Bonus Actions Battlefield Commands. The clockwork tactician issues commands to up to three friendly creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Each target has advantage on its next ability check or attack roll, provided it can hear and understand the tactician. Press the Attack. If the clockwork tactician hits one target with two Multiweapon attacks or scores a critical hit with its multiweapon, it can make one additional Multiweapon attack. Reactions Quick Study. When a creature hits the clockwork tactician with an attack, the tactician makes a DC 13 Intelligence check. On a success, it chooses one of the following benefits: The tactician has advantage on melee attack rolls against the attacker. The attacker has disadvantage on attack rolls against the tactician. The tactician has resistance to the type of damage from the attack that hit it. The tactician can have more than one benefit active at a time. The benefits end when the tactician attacks a different creature or uses Quick Study on a different creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

