# Clockwork Scorpion

**description**: A massive, mechanical scorpion rears its stinger, the tail's segments sloshing with colorful alchemical solutions inside them. Puffs of noxious gas discharge from nozzles poking through the gaps in its armor. Constructing and maintaining a clockwork scorpion requires mastery of both engineering and alchemy. Because of this, they are usually built with the cooperative work of multiple artisans. Being the sole creator of a clockwork scorpion is considered a mark of prestige. Valued Guardians. Nobles that enjoy supporting scientific pursuits might commission a master crafter that they're sponsoring to create a clockwork scorpion for them. This allows the noble to show off their protégé's skills while improving their home's protection. Construct Nature. The clockwork scorpion doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Immutable Form. The clockwork scorpion is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The clockwork scorpion has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The clockwork scorpion makes one Sting attack and two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). The clockwork scorpion has two claws, each of which can grapple only one target. Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) piercing damage plus 22 (4d10) poison damage. The scorpion then chooses one of the following alchemical solutions, and the target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. The effect is determined by the chosen solution. Hallucinatory Elixir. On a failed save, the target sees enemies everywhere for 1 minute. On its turn, the target uses its action to make a melee attack against the nearest creature that is not the clockwork scorpion, moving up to its speed toward the creature, if necessary. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the target succeeds on the initial save, it is charmed until the end of its next turn. Sleep Solution. On a failed save, the target falls unconscious for 1 minute. This effect ends for the target if it takes damage or if another creature takes an action to wake it. On a successful save, the target is incapacitated until the end of its next turn. Vocal Paralytic. On a failed save, the target is poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the target is unable to speak or cast spells that require verbal components. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the target succeeds on the initial save, it is poisoned in this way until the end of its next turn. Acid Spray (Recharge 5-6). The clockwork scorpion spews acid in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Gas Nozzles. When the clockwork scorpion takes damage, each creature within 5 feet of it takes 5 (1d10) poison damage. If the damage it took was fire, the gas ignites and deals an extra 5 (1d10) fire damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

