# Clockwork Conductor

**description**: A polished, mechanical gnome waddles onto the stage. The figure begins to conduct the orchestra with a baton and even, measured gestures. Clockwork conductors are ingenious little inventions devised by bards specializing in clockwork magic. The outer frame, a chassis often crafted to look like a formally attired gnome or halfling, houses an intricate metronome. Initially crafted with the intent to assist in composition and performances, clockwork conductors were later fine-tuned to empower their creators' spellcasting and even out magic's sometimes-unpredictable nature. Since the first models were crafted, subsequent iterations have been developed, often with peculiar and sometimes temperamental personalities. Sonorous Synergy. Clockwork conductors are in their element when assisting spellcasters and performance artists, but animated instruments (see) especially benefit from their presence. The animated symphony makes an impression all the more majestic with a clockwork conductor leading the orchestration. Mechanical Maestros. Clockwork conductors project an aura that ensures moderate success in most battle and artistic endeavors though this effect can often overshadow individual brilliance and triumph. Equipped with a baton-shaped arm that sports a painful electric charge, clockwork conductors can coax allies from afar into moments of deep focus. When all else fails, a clockwork conductor can overclock its inner workings, offering a surge of creative mastery to its allies at great expense to itself. Construct Nature. The conductor doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Immutable Form. The conductor is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The conductor has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Metronomic Aura . When a friendly creature within 20 feet of the conductor makes an attack or a Charisma (Performance) check, the creature can treat the d20 roll as a 10 instead of using the die's actual roll. Actions Conductive Baton. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) lightning damage, and the target can't take reactions until the start of its next turn. Overclocked Finale (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The conductor makes a grand sacrifice, spurring its allies on in a final masterstroke. Each friendly creature within 30 feet of the conductor that can see it gains a +5 bonus to attack rolls, damage rolls, and ability checks for until the end of the conductor's next turn. Roll a d6. On a 1 to 4, the conductor can't use Concerted Effort until it finishes a short rest. On a 5 or 6, it can't use Concerted Effort, and its Metronomic Aura becomes inactive until it finishes a short rest. Bonus Actions Concerted Effort. The conductor inspires itself or one friendly creature it can see within 30 feet of it until the start of the conductor's next turn. When the target makes an attack roll or a Constitution saving throw to maintain concentration on a spell, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

