# Clockwork Iron Cobra

**description**: An iron cobra is exactly what its name implies: a metal snake with a poisonous bite. Gnomes load this clockwork with alchemical concoctions that can paralyze creatures and cloud the mind. Clockworks Gnomes’ tinkering with magic and mechanical devices has produced many failed Constructs but also has resulted in genuine advances, such as clockworks. The methods used to craft clockworks have been shared between gnome communities over many generations. Individual Designs Gnome artisans prefer unique clockworks over perfectly functioning ones that copy too much from other creations. A clockwork can be customized by adding one of the following enhancements and one potential malfunction to its stat block. You can select randomly or choose a pair of modifications that fit the temperament of the clockwork’s builder. Clockwork Enhancements d10 Enhancement 1 Camouflaged. The clockwork gains proficiency in Stealth if it lacks that proficiency. While motionless, it is indistinguishable from a stopped machine. 2 Sensors. The range of the clockwork’s darkvision increases by 60 feet, and it gains proficiency in Perception if it lacks that proficiency. 3 Fortified. The clockwork’s AC increases by 2. 4 Increased Speed. The clockwork’s speed increases by 10 feet. 5 Reinforced Construction. The clockwork has resistance to force, lightning, and thunder damage. 6 Self-Repairing. If the clockwork starts its turn with fewer than half its hit points but at least 1 hit point, it regains 5 hit points. If it takes lightning damage, this ability doesn’t function at the start of its next turn. 7 Sturdy Frame. The clockwork’s hit point maximum increases by an amount equal to its number of Hit Dice. 8 Suction. The clockwork gains a climbing speed of 30 feet. 9 Vocal Resonator. The clockwork gains the ability to speak rudimentary Common or Gnomish. 10 Water Propulsion. The clockwork gains a swimming speed of 30 feet. Clockwork Malfunctions d8 Malfunction 1 Faulty Sensors. Roll a d6 at the start of the clockwork’s turn. If you roll a 1, the clockwork is blinded until the end of its turn. 2 Flawed Targeting. Roll a d6 at the start of the clockwork’s turn. If you roll a 1, the clockwork makes attack rolls with disadvantage until the end of its turn. 3 Ground Fault. The clockwork has vulnerability to lightning damage. 4 Imprinting Loop. Roll a d6 at the start of the clockwork’s turn. If you roll a 1, the clockwork mistakes one creature it can see within 30 feet for its creator. The clockwork won’t willingly harm that creature for 1 minute or until that creature attacks or damages it. 5 Limited Steering. The clockwork must move in a straight line. It can turn up to 90 degrees before moving and again at the midpoint of its movement. It can rotate freely if it doesn’t use any of its speeds on its turn. 6 Overactive Sense of Self-Preservation. If the clockwork has half its hit points or fewer at the start of its turn in combat, roll a d6. If you roll a 1, it retreats from combat if possible. It otherwise keeps fighting. 7 Overheats. Roll a d6 at the start of the clockwork’s turn. If you roll a 1, the clockwork is incapacitated until the end of its turn. 8 Rusty Gears . The clockwork has disadvantage on initiative rolls, and its speed decreases by 10 feet. I’ve sometimes made the mistake of disavowing gnomish contraptions altogether. Yet some are downright functional. That said, I still won’t entrust my well-being to a whirling kettle. —Mordenkainen Traits Magic Resistance. The clockwork has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Unusual Nature. The clockwork doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or suffer one random effect (roll a d6): 1–2: Confusion. On its next turn, the target must use its action to make one weapon attack against a random creature it can see within 30 feet of it, using whatever weapon it has in hand and moving beforehand if necessary to get in range. If it’s holding no weapon, it makes an unarmed strike. If no creature is visible within 30 feet, it takes the Dash action, moving toward the nearest creature. 3–4: Paralysis. The target is paralyzed until the end of its next turn. 5–6: Poison. The target takes 13 (3d8) poison damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

