# Clockwork Beholder

**description**: Pushing themselves to continue building the perfect efficient guardian, inventive gnomes looked to the beholder for inspiration and marveled at the aberration’s simple yet effective biological design. After years of planning, acquiring expensive raw materials, and trial and error, they were able to build the first clockwork beholder. Mechanical Tyrant. When activated, its spherical body hovers at all times, buoyed by steam jets below it. It has a great bulging lens for an eye, sitting above a large maw that contains rows of razor-sharp metallic teeth. Ten retracting segmented metal stalks crown its body, each ending with a unique type of lens that can project different types of energy rays. When inert, a clockwork beholder resembles a large metallic ball with its central eye shut and its eyestalks retracted. Spell-Reflecting Eye. In combat, the clockwork beholder will typically blast its enemies with its rays. If any foe attempts to target it with a spell or spell attack, the clockwork beholder can turn its central eye lens toward the caster and reflect the spell back toward it. Death Burst. As with most gnomish inventions, the clockwork beholder is dangerously volatile. If destroyed, its mechanical body has a chance to explode, hitting anyone near it with superheated steam and shrapnel. Constructed Nature. A clockwork doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Death Burst. When the clockwork beholder's hit points reaches 0, roll 1d6. On a roll of 3 or higher, it explodes in a burst of shrapnel and scalding steam. Each creature within 10 feet of it must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 9 (2d8) piercing damage and 9 (2d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spell Redirection Cone. The clockwork beholder's central eye creates an area of spell redirection, in a 150-foot cone. If a creature within the cone targets the clockwork beholder with a spell or spell attack, the beholder causes that spell to hit another creature of its choice within 60 feet of it that it can see. At the start of each of its turns, the clockwork beholder decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. Magic Resistance. The clockwork beholder has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (3d6 + 1) piercing damage. Eye Rays. The clockwork beholder shoots three of the following magical eye rays at random (reroll duplicates), choosing one to three targets it can see within 120 feet of it: Fire Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 22 (4d10) fire damage and catches fire; until someone takes an action to douse the fire, the creature takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. Freeze Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d8) cold damage and the target can't use reactions and its speed is halved for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Lightning Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d8) lightning damage and the target is incapacitated until the end of the clockwork beholder's next turn. Acid Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 18 (4d8) acid damage immediately and 9 (2d8) acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much of the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn. Poison Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is paralyzed. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Radiant Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 13 (3d8) radiant damage and the target is blinded for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Force Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or take 18 (4d8) force damage and the target is pushed horizontally up to 10 feet directly away from the clockwork beholder and is knocked prone. Antimagic Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or the target is affected as if in an antimagic field spell for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Death Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 33 (6d10) necrotic damage. The target dies if the ray reduces it to 0 hit points. Malfunctioning Ray. The eye activates, sputters, blows a gasket, and does nothing. Reactions Direct Spell Redirection Cone. When a creature the clockwork beholder can see targets the clockwork beholder with a spell or spell attack and the creature is within 150 feet of the clockwork beholder, the clockwork beholder activates its spell redirection cone and faces in the direction of the creature. Legendary Actions The clockwork beholder can take 3 legendary actions, using the Eye Ray option below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The clockwork beholder regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Eye Ray. The clockwork beholder uses one random eye ray.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

