# Cloud Giant Divine Trickster

**description**: The cloud giant divine trickster is a powerful cleric of Memnor, the giant deity of control, deceit, and pride. It is a cunning cleric that seeks to bring chaos and disorder to the Realms through deception and manipulation. It enjoys orchestrating wars between nations and factions and delights in bringing misery to everyone. In combat, the cloud giant is very crafty and opportunistic and often employs dirty tactics. Aside from its incredible strength and potent divine magic, it can conjure an illusory image of itself to mislead attackers. It also has the uncanny ability to copy and recast most spells it has just observed from other spellcasters. Traits Keen Smell. The giant has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two attacks with its Morningstar. Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) lightning damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 30 (4d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect magic, fog cloud, light, poison spray (2d12), minor illusion, thaumaturgy 3/day each: feather fall, fly, misty step, telekinesis 1/day each: banishment, charm person, control weather, disguise self, gaseous form, mirror image, polymorph, suggestion Cloak of Shadows (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The giant creates a perfect illusion of itself that lasts for 1 minute, or until the giant loses its concentration (as if it was concentrating on a spell). The illusion appears in an unoccupied space that the giant can see within 30 feet of it. As a bonus action on its turn, it can move the illusion up to 30 feet to a space it can see, but it must remain within 120 feet of it. For the duration, the giant can cast spells as though it was in the illusion’s space, but it must use its own senses. Additionally, when both the giant and its illusion are within 5 feet of a creature that can see the illusion, the giant has advantage on attack rolls against that creature, given how distracting the illusion is to the target. Reactions Mirror Spell (3/Day). When a creature within 30 feet of the giant casts a spell, and the giant can see and hear the creature, the giant temporarily gains knowledge of the spell if it is at least 1st level and not higher than 4th level and takes only 1 action to cast. The giant knows the spell this turn only and casts it using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). Legendary Actions The giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The giant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The giant moves up to half its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The giant makes a melee or ranged attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The giant uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

