# Cloud Giant Count

**description**: In the Ordning, the count or countess is the highest-ranking cloud giant of its kind. The count is also often the most clever, powerful, and ruthless. Always scheming, every action or inaction the count makes is calculated, to ensure that it furthers its goals. In battle, the count rarely fights in the open. It instead prefers to direct its underlings where they will be most effective. If needed, the cloud giant count will use its potent illusions and enchantments to gain the upper hand. Traits Keen Smell. The giant has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spell Penetration. When the giant casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Superior Focus. The giant has advantage on saving throws it makes to maintain its concentration. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Morningstar attacks. Morningstar . Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (3d8 + 9) piercing damage. The attack deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage if the giant has advantage on the attack roll. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 31 (4d10 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect magic, fog cloud, light 3/day each: fly, telekinesis 1/day each: control weather (as an action), gaseous form Bonus Actions Battle Command. The giant targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the giant, the target can use its reaction to make one melee attack or to take the Dodge or Hide action. Bewildering Mist (Recharge 6). The giant conjures a magical 20-foot diameter bluish-white mist centered on the giant that lasts for 1 minute. A creature hostile to the giant that starts its turn within the mist takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage and must make a DC 18 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the creature can’t take reactions until the start of its next turn, and it rolls a d4 to determine what it does during its current turn: 1–2. The creature does nothing. 3. The creature does nothing except use all its movement to move in a random direction. 4. The creature either makes one melee attack against a random creature it can see or does nothing if no visible creature is within its reach. Misty Step (3/Day). The giant casts misty step using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. Reactions Featherfall (3/Day). The giant casts feather fall using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. Legendary Actions The giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The giant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Cunning Instruction. The giant targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the giant, the target gains advantage on its next attack roll, ability check, or saving throw until the start of the giant's next turn. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The giant makes a Morningstar attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The giant uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Good (50%) or Neutral Evil (50%)
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

