# Colour out of Space

**description**: The deepest, strangest parts of space hold truly alien beings—and of those, few are more notorious than the colour out of space. The lack of a physical body does little to impede this deadly alien life form’s ability to cause incredible devastation to other life it encounters. A colour out of space’s life cycle requires periodic visits to the deepest reaches of space for the creature to gestate and grow in the vicinity of powerful gravitational fields (such as those created by planets), and this custom only increases the monster’s opportunities to bring ruin to countless worlds. The colour out of space is just that—a mobile radiance. Its glow is unlike any seen in nature. The few who encounter one of these creatures and survive sometimes describe the radiance or portrayed it in art as a sinister, green-gray illumination, but these depictions are flawed reproductions. To witness the colour out of space is to know there are things no humanoid mind can fully comprehend, describe, or explain, but its eeriness brings with it a stifling sense of latent malignancy. Colour Blight. Very little is known about the life cycle of a colour that dwells in the depths of space, for it is only when it comes to a planet to grow and reproduce that other life forms encounter it. A colour’s arrival upon a world is typically via a small meteorite strike—the colour itself infuses a meteoroid, and shortly after the falling star’s arrival, the rock crumbles away to expose the semisolid mass of a larval colour that seeps into the surrounding landscape. Although a colour is incorporeal, and thus able to move through solid objects, it can also exist as a free-floating, eerie radiance. Natural sunlight doesn’t particularly harm colours out of space, but they prefer to dwell in darkened areas like deep caves or abandoned wells where their own radiance is the only light. Lassitude. Over the course of several weeks, months, or even years, the colour feeds upon the surrounding plant and animal life—the act of being fed upon is weirdly addictive to its victims, who develop a self-destructive lassitude that prevents them from fleeing the region. When a colour has absorbed enough life to grow to full maturity, it gathers its strength and erupts from its den, coruscating into the sky as it launches the majority of itself back into space. Sometimes, enough remains of the parent colour to survive on its own, and in these cases the life cycle repeats again and again. Areas blighted by a colour out of space are singularly recognizable, not only for the eerie pallor of local plant life and large swaths of blasted, barren landscape, but also by the presence of those the colour has fed on. These unfortunate, deformed individuals, known as colour-blighted creatures, never live for long, but while they do, their madness often drives them to violent behavior, be they people or beasts. Regional Effects The region containing a colour out of space’s lair is warped by the colour’s nature, which creates one or more of the following effects: The colour’s aura of lassitude reaches up to 6 miles from its lair though its effects are much weaker. All living creatures have a general, yet persistent, feeling of weariness and lethargy come over them. If the colour out of space dies, this effect fades over the course of 1d6 days. Within 1 mile of the colour out of space’s lair everything is gray and nights are much darker than normal. All living creatures have disadvantage on Constitution and Charisma saving throws while within this area. Beasts and other creatures in the area gain the color blighted template (see below) and aggressively attack intruders. If the colour out of space dies, this effect fades over the course of 1d10 days and blighted creatures return to normal over the same period. An aura of lassitude is palatable in the area immediately around the colour out of space’s lair. A creature within 300 feet of a colour out of space (even when the colour is hiding within a solid object) must succeed at a DC 18 Charisma save or become overwhelmed with listlessness and ennui. While under this effect, the creature has disadvantage on all Charisma saving throws and doesn’t willingly travel farther than a mile from the area where it failed its saving throw against that colour’s aura of lassitude. A dispel magic spell (or similar effect vs. DC 18) ends the effect, as does removing the victim from the aura’s area of effect. Every 24 hours, a creature affected by an aura of lassitude can attempt a new DC 18 Wisdom save to cast off the effects of the aura. A creature that succeeds at this saving throw is immune to that colour’s aura of lassitude for 24 hours. A creature that is under the effects of an aura of lassitude from a colour out of space can’t be further affected by this ability from other colours. If the colour out of space dies, this effect ends immediately. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatBlock1, li.StatBlock1, div.StatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1 Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.StatBlock1Char {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1 Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: ooze (mythos)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

