# Commander of Horn and Gold

**description**: An imposing figure clad in black plate armor chased with gold embellishment steps out of the shadows, flourishing a claw-tipped black spear. Kaedrin Blackwing cuts a striking image in his gold and black armor, adorned with the horns, teeth, and claws of elder shadow drakes. He is a tall, purple-skinned fey with a pair of curling ram’s horns, and he moves with military precision. His voice is hollow, and his expression borders on cruel at the calmest of moments. He is the Commander of Horn and Gold, and he oversees a watchtower that perches on a black mountain crag in the Plane of Shadow, where thick gray ashes drift from the leaden sky like grimy snow. The Tower of Horn and Gold is inhabited by a cadre of shadow fey knights and a contingent of goblin retainers and miners. Master of Drakes. A network of lightless tunnels and caverns inhabited by a host of shadow drakes fills the black mountain beneath the tower. The commander and his knights have forged an alliance with the drakes, exchanging access to the tunnels—and the drakes’ service as fearsome mounts—for protection, food, and treasure. Guardian of Wealth and Power. Besides the power the shadow drakes themselves represent, the tunnels beneath the tower brim with riches. Veins of shadow gold run through the rock, and the goblins and shadow fey diligently mine the precious substance. The Commander’s Lair The commander’s lair is the Tower of Horn and Gold in the Plane of Shadow, as well as the dark mountain ridge on which the tower sits and the shadow drake tunnels in the rock beneath the tower. When encountered in his lair, the commander has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP) Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the commander takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the commander can’t use the same effect two rounds in arow: * The commander draws upon the wellspring of shadowy power in his lair, bolstering his prowess. Until initiative count 20 on the following round, the commander’s speed increases to 80 feet, he regains 5 hp whenever he hits a creature with an attack during his turn, and while in dim light or darkness he can take the Hide action as a bonus action. * Magical darkness gathers in a 15-foot radius sphere centered on a point the commander can see within 60 feet of him. The darkness spreads around corners. It lasts until the commander dismisses it as an action, he uses this lair action again, or until he dies. A creature with darkvision can’t see through this darkness, and nonmagical light can’t illuminate it. If any of the effect’s area overlaps with an area of light created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell that created the light is dispelled. * The bloodcurdling cries of drakes on the hunt echo throughout the lair, coalescing around the commander. Each enemy of the commander within 100 feet of him and that can hear the cries must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened until initiative count 20 on the following round. Regional Effects The region containing the commander’s lair is warped by his magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: * Elder shadow drakes are attracted to hunt and nest in the area within 10 miles of the lair. * Gold and silver that remain within 5 miles of the lair for at least 1 day become tarnished with inky patches of darkness. * Lighting conditions become dim and gloomy. The bright and dim light radiuses of nonmagical light are halved while within 3 miles of the lair. If the commander dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. The Commander in Midgard The Tower of Horn and Gold stands atop the Mistcall Mountains in the Shadow Realm, to the relative west of the Courts of the Shadow Fey. The commander holds this western border and defends the shadow gold mines, as well as a shadow road and powerful ley line nexus deep in the drake caverns. Shadow gold resembles standard gold, but it is infused with the essence of the Shadow Ream. When the metal is molten, scratched, or bent, the damage to the metal is pitch black, revealing its true nature. Shadow fey mint coins and other trinkets from shadow gold, and shower it liberally upon mortals, buying their services, loyalty, and some say enslaving their souls, one coin at a time. For more information on the shadow fey, see the Midgard Worldbook . Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. However, cold iron weapons are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

