# Commander Everett

**description**: Commander Everett is a corrupt knight with great skill in blood magic and a ruthless commander who despises weakness. All who oppose him meet horrific fates, either as a result of facing him in combat or being used as material for his next creation. Blood Warden. Everett is the commander and for all intents and purposes sole ruler of a high-security prison. Although he does not typically abuse his power over the “well behaved” prisoners, the punishments he sets are incredibly harsh and unethical, and he has been known to make examples of prisoners who raise his ire, taking their blood for use in rituals or the crafting of arms and armor. Appearance. Everett is a tall, muscular human and is almost never found without his blood-red armor. Having used rituals of blood magic to craft all components of his equipment, his presence is accompanied by a nauseatingly intense scent of iron. Personality. Quick to anger and almost always on edge, Everett is an unpleasant individual to say the least. He rules his prison with an iron fist, always on the lookout for new subjects to use in his rituals. However, he is a man of his word, and once given, Everett does not break his promises. Plot Hooks Prison Break. The party has been tasked with extracting a prisoner from Everett’s prison. However, to do so they must pass through the defenses created by Everett’s blood magic, and possibly even fight Everett himself. Wrongfully Accused. The party has been imprisoned for crimes they did not commit and must escape Everett’s prison without most of their adventuring equipment. Hopefully someone can help them clear their name once they’ve escaped. End His Reign. Hearing of the atrocities committed by Everett, the local ruler (whom Everett serves) has called for Everett to stand down as the prison’s warden. However, Everett has refused, and with his skill in blood magic the ruler must seek the aid of the party in ending Everett’s reign over the prison. Tactics Everett is always looking to test his newest weapons, and eagerly accepts any fight presented to him. When encountered, he typically has several prison guards with him, which can be represented by blood cult officers or blood cultists . He typically leads each turn by using Shield Bash to knock his target prone before making his Sanguine Blade attacks. Everett does his best to keep hit points in his armor to make up for his overall lower hit point pool as his armor serves to both prevent damage he would take and lower the damage relative to his Injury thresholds. Lair Actions While in his prison, on initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Everett takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Everett can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Bloody Prison. One creature within 60 feet of Everett that he can see must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained by a cage of crystalized blood. Any creature can use its action to make a DC 14 Strength check to shatter the cage, freeing the creature. Bloody Spikes. Each creature within 10 feet of Everett that is hostile to him must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) piercing damage. Sticky Blood. A 15-foot square of ground fills with viscous blood, becoming difficult terrain for creatures other than Everett. Traits Blood Armor. Everett’s armor has a pool of 40 hit points that reduces damage taken by him. When he would take damage, Everett’s armor absorbs up to 10 points of damage and Everett reduces the damage taken by this amount. The armor can absorb a maximum of 10 points of damage per turn. While the armor has 0 hit points, Everett’s AC is reduced by 1. Nauseating Blood. Each time a creature starts its turn within 5 ft. of Everett, it must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be sickened until the start of its next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature becomes immune to this trait for 1 hour. Commanding Presence. Allies of Everett that can see or hear him add a d4 to each attack roll or saving throw they make while within 30 ft. of him. Actions Multiattack. Everett makes two melee attacks. Sanguine Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage, and the target must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes an additional 13 (3d8) necrotic damage and Everett’s armor regains 5 hit points. On a successful saving throw, the target takes half damage and the armor does not regain any hit points. Damage dealt by this attack is magical. Bloody Drain (Recharge 5-6). Everett drains blood from foes nearby, restoring his hit points and refilling his armor. Up to four creatures Everett can see that are within 30 ft. of him must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or lose 13 (3d8) hit points. A successful saving throw halves the hit point loss. Everett regains 4 (1d8) hit points and his armor regains 5 hit points per creature that failed its saving throw. Bonus Actions Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4+4) bludgeoning damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Damage dealt by this attack is magical.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

