# Confined (Malevolence III)

**description**: “You talk about vengeance, spirit. Is vengeance going to bring your life back to you?" - Don Vito Caprileone, Cleric and Exorcist - The Confined are probably the most powerful of the ghosts and phantasms that Knaves can encounter in the Kingdom. They are undead beings of ancient pain, dark intentions, and great powers, who for some reason remain to haunt the place where they died. Their dark abilities are so extensive and connected with the place they haunt that they are able to generate paranormal phenomena of all kinds: poltergeists, possession, fires, disgregation of matter, and even control of corpses and other specters. The only positive aspect of their terrifying existence is that their area of influence is limited by some boundary they cannot cross, unless under special conditions: a castle, a dungeon, a sailing ship, a village, or even an entire city. They take their name from this confinement. Malevolence Malevolence indicates the power level of the confined. The higher the Malevolence, the greater the resistance, the power, and the strength of the manifestation's unique capabilities. For each Malevolence level, the confined gains a unique power, chosen from the list of powers of the confined. Additionally, the confined adds the Malevolence level to its saving throw DCs, attack rolls, and skill checks. Malevolence Level Number of Powers Basic Stats Change Challenge 1 1 Basic Stat 7 (2,900 XP) 2 2 Hit Points 119 (14d8+56), Legendary Resistance (1/Day), Legendary Actions 9 (5,000 XP) 3 3 Hit Points 136 (16d8+64), Legendary Resistance (3/Day), Legendary Actions, Multiattack (2) 13 (10,000 XP) The Lair of A Confined Typical Confined’s lairs are; a ghost village lost in the mountains, a haunted tower, a stretch of forest or swamp, a complex of caves or dungeons, a ship adrift, a small island, the district around a crossroads, a stretch of road. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the confined takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the confined can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: The confined calls forth the spirits of creatures that died in its lair. These apparitions materialize and attack one creature that the confined can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 13 + Malevolence level Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) necrotic damage per Malevolence level on a failed save, or half as much damage on a success. The apparitions then disappear. The confined summons any undead present in its lair. The confined can cast the bestow curse spell (no concentration required), on a creature it can see within 120 feet of it (saving throw DC 13 + Malevolence level). Regional Effects The region surrounding a confined’s lair is altered by the creature's unnatural presence, which generates one or more of the following effects: The presence of ghostly undead in the region increases visibly. Plants within 150 meters of the lair wither, the stems, flowers, and tree branches become twisted and thorny. Storm clouds fill the sky above the confined’s lair, not allowing sunlight to filter through. Disturbing noises such as whispers and squeaks, inanimate objects that move of their own free will, such as doors that close, objects that float in the air and then fall to the ground helpless, etc. The confined has no control over these phenomena. If the confined is destroyed, these effects end immediately. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If the confined fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Incorporeal Movement . The confined can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Sunlight Sensitivity . While in sunlight, the confined has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Confined Weaknesses . The confined has the following flaws: Bound . The confined’s area of influence is limited to a specific territory (its lair), such as a village, a valley, or a forest. The confined cannot cross the boundaries of its lair nor manifest any power outside of them. Mortal Remains . If the mortal vestiges of the confined are found and burned or given a worthy burial, the confined is destroyed. Long-Awaited Peace . If peace is given to the confined by righting the wrong that torments it, the confined disappears forever. Actions Life Drain Touch . Melee Spell Attack : +5 (+1 per Malevolence level) to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 16 (4d6+2) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 13 (+1 per Malevolence level) Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Legendary Actions (Malevolence 3) The confined can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The confined regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move . The confined moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Unique Power (Costs 2 Actions) . The confined uses a unique power among those at its disposal. Life Drain Touch . The confined makes one Life Drain Touch attack. Unique Powers (1 Per Malevolence Level) Freezing Gaze .* When a creature starts its turn within 10 feet of the confined and is able to see the confined’s eyes, the confined can magically force it to make a DC 13 (+ 1 per Malevolence level) Constitution saving throw. On a failed saving throw, the creature suffers 1 level of exhaustion. Ignite .* The confined targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must make a DC 13 (+ 1 per Malevolence level) Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target catches fire and takes 1d6 fire damage per Malevolence level at the start of each of its turns. The ignited target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If someone takes an action to sprinkle the target with holy water, the effect ends immediately. Lord of the Unsolved (1/Day) .* The confined magically calls 1d4 zombies per Malevolence level. The zombies arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting as allies of the confined and they remain for 1 hour, until the confined dies, or until the confined dismisses them as a bonus action. Possession (Recharge 6) .* One humanoid that the confined can see within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 (+1 per Malevolence level) Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the confined; the confined then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The confined now controls the body but doesn't deprive the target of awareness. The confined can't be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except ones that turn undead, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target's statistics, but doesn't gain access to the target's knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the confined ends it as a bonus action, or the confined is turned or forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the confined reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to this confined's Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends. Spectral Drowning .* Each creature within 10 feet of the confined must make a successful DC 13 (+1 per Malevolence level) Dexterity saving throw or begin to suffocate as if it was out of breath or choking. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the confined's Spectral Drowning for the next 24 hours. Telekinetic Control .* The confined targets a creature or unattended object within 30 feet of it. A creature must be Medium or smaller to be affected by this magic, and an object can weigh up to 150 pounds. If the target is a creature, the confined makes a Charisma check contested by the target's Strength check. If the confined wins the contest, the confined hurls the target up to 30 feet in any direction, including upward. If the target then comes into contact with a hard surface or heavy object, the target takes 1d6 damage per 10 feet moved. If the target is an object that isn't being worn or carried, the confined hurls it up to 30 feet in any direction. The confined can use the object as a ranged weapon, attacking one creature along the object's path (+4, +1 per Malevolence level to hit) and dealing 2d4 bludgeoning damage per Malevolence level on a hit. Terrifying Glare .* The confined targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must make a DC 13 (+ 1 per Malevolence level) Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target is paralyzed until the confined deals damage to it, or until the end of the confined's next turn. When the paralysis ends, the target is frightened of the confined for 1 minute. The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if it can see the confined, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 11925
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

