# Coranzan Gullion

**description**: Protector to the Matron Since Coranzan could speak, his tongue has tried the patience of his teachers, caretakers, siblings, and even the Matron at times. A scrawny, impatient child, Coranzan’s wit and insight were his only strengths. A snide joke—that could easily be a veiled threat—served to deter bullies as well as any bravado, especially given the backing of his family name. Coranzan learned early that the line between perception of power and true power is an illusion: they are one and the same. But with power comes those who would test themselves against it, to wrest it for their own. More than once Coranzan’s arrogance proved his downfall. A misplaced witticism, a retort too barbed, a taunt ill-timed: then the contest was on, only shame or bloodshed would determine whom would wield control over the other. Oft times Coranzan’s tongue boasted more than the drow could deliver, and from these defeats he learned subtlety and timing. As an adolescent, where other drow of his age were forging their futures on one path or another, Coranzan yet lingered in the tower, following the whims of youth. When the day finally came that the matron could no longer ignore this aimless child, she summoned him before her. “I will be your voice,” he proclaimed when asked why he refused to enter the war college or the priesthood, as befit a noble drow. “I am no warrior, who wields power through his sword. I am no cleric, who wields the power of the Goddess. My power is in words. How often have courtiers left here more enraged at my insults than at your command, even as your words take gold from their coffers and slaves from their holds, and my words take nothing but pride? How much of that gold is spent scrying on these unworthy cads, ensuring they take no action against the Matron’s male child who has dared insult them. How many have died at your command, for naught more than reacting to such insolence? Wield my power, make me your voice.” Bold Coranzan dared lock eyes with his mother then. For the first time, the youth knew true fear. Yet his words had swayed her, at least enough to consider what he had said. Against her nascent impulse, she decided to seek for him a master. A few male drow had risen to prominence through careful cunning and silken words, and with training he could become an adept instigator. At great expense, a suitable tutor was found and Coranzan sent away. A week later he returned to report: the master of the thieves’ guild of Embla had nothing to teach him. His own lieutenants were now loyal to House Gullion, the man himself put to the blade. Coranzan had no interest in being a damber, learning grifts, fingerwork, or smuggling. Mildly impressed, but not yet convinced, the matron arranged for another apprenticeship, to a duergar named Bruthwol Landgarder. An ambassador for Embla, though not a native to the city, Bruthwol was known far and wide as a determined negotiator who couched sinister intent behind jovial charisma. Coranzan would either tame his tongue or find himself outmatched. For years the drow learned from the dwarf. Outwardly their relationship was one of master and apprentice, but in private moments Coranzan wondered at the dwarf’s ability to sway listeners with mere words. From Bruthwol he learned that the perception of power is indeed equivalent to true power, so long as you understand your opponent, their motives, dreams, and fears. “Bringing another under the sway of your words is not unlike a hunter bringing low his prey.” At these words, the truth of Coranzan’s power awoke within him. Countless instructors had plied the boy with similar wisdom, but Bruthwol’s explanation somehow made sense. Years more the drow followed the dwarf, serving as his apprentice, but knowing now he would one day surpass his master. Coranzan spent this time learning combat with a bow, illusion and charm magic, and always improving his way with poison- and honey-dipped words. Bruthwol, for his part, played his role well, never mistreating the drow and never requiring of him any task that would rankle his pride. Until, that is, when Coranzan chanced to overhear the dwarf bragging on how the drow Matron gave him her own son as a servant. Coranzan recalled then the power his mother wielded, that all drow wield when compared to other races; he knew this was his call to return home. It was a simple matter to convince the dwarf and his acquaintance to turn on each other. As he stood over the injured Bruthwol, he saw in the dwarf’s eyes a meek cunning, a plan of words to save his life, but a hunter is not swayed by his prey.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

