# Core Spawn Worm

**description**: The Elder Evils assault the multiverse in strange and calamitous ways. Sometimes they breach the Material Plane by exploiting the unfathomable energy and darkness found in the world’s depths. These terrestrial manifestations of loathsome alien agendas are known as core spawn, and they are as varied in their physiology as they are horrific. Their concentration in the desolate lands of Blightshore makes the core spawn a challenge to research, and many who have sought to observe or study these nightmarish entities rarely return. Those who do return are often shells of their former selves who speak of horrifying underground labyrinths of twisting caverns and malevolent nests where other denizens of the Miskath Strand are dragged below to some infernal purpose. Offspring of Calamity. The aberrant creatures known as core spawn are a subterranean breed of heralds, servants, foot soldiers, and lieutenants of the Elder Evils, awakened in the depths by the cataclysmic actions of the Betrayer Gods and their minions. They often appear on the surface world in the wake of seismic events, such as that which created the bottomless Miskath Pit of Eastern Wynandir. Warlocks and cultists sometimes gather together to hasten the arrival of core spawn to the Material Plane, focusing their arcane power on areas of natural seismic instability when the signs and stars are right. Core Spawn Worm This invertebrate horror has quivering, barbed tentacles set around its massive, toothy maw. The worm’s cracked and stony hide pulses with a dull orange glow, as if it might be composed of primordial lava perpetually on the verge of hardening into solid rock. Traits Illumination. The worm sheds dim light in a 20-foot radius. Radiant Mirror. If the worm takes radiant damage, each creature within 20 feet of it takes that damage as well. Tunneler. The worm can burrow through solid rock at half its burrowing speed and leaves a 10-foot-diameter tunnel in its wake. Actions Multiattack. The worm makes two attacks: one with its barbed tentacles and one with its bite. Barbed Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 25 (5d6 + 8) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The tentacles can grapple only one creature at a time. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 30 (5d8 + 8) piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or be swallowed by the worm. A swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the worm, and takes 21 (6d6) fire damage at the start of each of the worm’s turns. If the worm takes 30 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the worm must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of the worm. If the worm dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 20 feet of movement, exiting prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 29448
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Explorer's Guide to Wildemount

