# Cornugon

**description**: Cornugon devils are an elite subtype of horned devils that serve under archdevils. They are known for their strength, fighting prowess, and magical abilities. Terrifying Fiends. Typical cornugon devils stand at around 11 to 12 feet tall, are overly muscular, and have steel-like scales or tough fur covering their body. Two great horns flank each side of their head, and their massive leathery or feathered wings stand well above their full body, enough to serve as a shield in battle. Their appearances vary, and will closely resemble the archdevils they serve. For example, cornugon devils who serve under Bael will look like massive winged minotaurs while those who serve under Dispater will look like armored humanoids that have ridged, iron scales covering its body and metallic wings. Archdevils' Elite. Cornugon devils are often tasked to lead lesser devils in combat or if grouped together, serve as the archdevil's elite troops. When a favored cultist prays for an archdevil to deal with a major threat and the cultist's sacrifice is deemed worthy, the archdevil may send a cornugon. Warrior Spellcasters. In combat, cornugon devils take a dual role. They start off as artillery support, unleashing devastating long range spells from afar to break clustered enemy ranks while also dispelling any magical threats and barriers that may hinder their allies. When the battle finally joins, they take flight and dive at the most dangerous but vulnerable targets, such as enemy spellcasters. Against challenging opponents, cornugon devils will utilize both their martial and spellcasting abilities to full advantage, often creating illusions to distract and mislead while making hit and run tactics. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the devil's darkvision. Magic Resistance. The cornugon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The cornugon makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail attack. Or it can use Infernal Bolt twice. Alternatively, it can make one Tail attack and use Infernal Bolt, Spellcasting or Teleport. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d10 + 7) piercing damage. If the target is a creature other than an Undead or a Construct, it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or lose 10 (3d6) hit points at the start of each of its turns due to an infernal wound. Each time the cornugon hits the wounded target with this attack, the damage dealt by the wound increases by 10 (3d6). Any creature can take an action to stanch the wound with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check. The wound also closes if the target receives magical healing. Infernal Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) fire damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the cornugon's next turn. Teleport. The cornugon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The cornugon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: detect evil and good, detect magic 2/day each: dispel magic, fireball, lightning bolt, major image

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

