# Couatling

**description**: We used to have a lot of bar fights before Couaty took a liking to Granny Weathertax. Now they’re quite the formidable pair. Couaty follows her everywhere, lets her know which folks are up to no good, and Granny takes care of them before any more of my tables get broken. I’d just got pretty good at carpentry too… — Heliana, No Longer A Woodworker Type: Celestial Creature Component: Couatl Bonus Tamer Improvement: Linguist and +2 Hit Dice Agents of good, harbingers of harmony, and a font of pleasant vibes, couatlings are anathema to evil. It isn’t unusual for a couatl mother to expire after guarding her brood of eggs without rest or reprieve. Hatching without a parent isn’t as dire a consequence for these innately magical creatures as one might think. The most bold of the brood will often use the mother’s skull as a means of scaring off would-be predators. Adorable. If any of the couatling’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the couatling’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the couatling’s Charisma modifier Monster Trainer Linguist Prerequisite: become a tamer’s companion Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The couatling can understand all the languages that its tamer understands and can speak falteringly in those languages. In addition, the couatling can use an action to cast comprehend languages, requiring no material components. After it has used this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. The couatling gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Divine Constriction Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action) The couatling gains a melee spell attack: Constrict. The damage die of the Constrict attack increases with the specified die size in the couatling’s Growth improvements. Constrict. Melee Spell Attack: Cha modifier + PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature no more than one size larger than the couatling. Hit: 1d4 + Cha modifier bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC equals save DC). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the couatling can’t constrict another target. Growth I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The couatling’s size increases to Small and its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d8 and its Divine Constriction to a d6. Divine Aegis Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the couatling casts protection from evil and good or protection from poison, without requiring material components. These spells end early when the couatling is dismissed. After it uses this feature to cast either spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Solar Beam I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (companion) As an action, the couatling unleashes a beam of radiant energy from its fanged maw. Each creature in a 5-foot-wide, 30-foot-long line must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After the couatling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the couatling’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 24 (7d6). True Seeing I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The couatling gains blindsight to a range of 15 feet. As an action, it can gain truesight out to the range of its blindsight until the end of its next turn. After it uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Divine Armour Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Divine Aegis Type: Passive (companion) The couatling’s scales harden as it is shrouded in a golden veil that wards against evil creatures. The couatling gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. In addition, evil-aligned creatures that target the couatling with an attack or a harmful spell must first make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature must choose a new target or lose the attack or spell. This spell doesn’t protect the couatling from area effects, such as the explosion of a fireball. If the couatling makes an attack, casts a spell that affects an enemy, or deals damage to another creature, the golden veil fades to mist and this effect (but not the bonus to its AC) is suspended for 1 minute. Growth II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Growth I Type: Passive (companion) The couatling’s size increases to Medium and its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d10 and its Divine Constriction to a d8. Solar Beam II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Solar Beam I Type: Passive (companion) The damage of the couatling’s Solar Beam action increases to 31 (9d6), and the length of the line increases to 60 feet. The couatling gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the couatling’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 42 (12d6). True Seeing II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, True Seeing II Type: Passive (companion) The couatling’s blindsight increases to 60 feet. When it uses its action to gain truesight out to the range of its blindsight, the effect lasts 10 minutes. Evil’s Scourge Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Divine Armour Type: Active (action) As an action, the couatling casts the dispel evil and good spell, without requiring material components. This spell ends early when the couatling is dismissed. After it uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: couatl
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

