# Count Rhodar von Glauer

**description**: Excerpt from the Chronicle of the Chain of Acheron “In those days, the Chain was in service to the Emperor Gaius VIII, third of the Five Crusading Emperors, and 27th Emperor of Caelia. Gaius continued the crusades started by his illustrious granduncle. Those were profitable days for the Chain, the Wheel, and the Gate. While the other Helltroopers waded into the deserts of Khoursir and Khemhara, we battled in the forests of Vaslor. We had it easy. I hate deserts. “Thinking his vampiric power would save him, Count Rhodar von Glauer waited until he was fulsome in his strength before trying to extend his dark realm into Caelian territory. But we know how to deal with vampires. The black and gold standard of the von Glauer family reads, “I do the devil’s work.” We can attest to that. We lost many souls to that long siege, but in the end, we staked him. An old woman howled at us saying, “He is the land!” but we hear that stuff all the time. We sacked his castle, burned his forest and orchards, and delivered his staff to the emperor. That was harder than it sounds. Finger had to drop it in one of his bottomless sacks to stop the mists from coming. What the emperor will do with it, I don’t know. I fear that staff may hold more than the power to make the mist.” Dancer, Chronicler of the Chain of Acheron, Heroes 228 Traits Resting Place. When Rhodar drops to 0 hit points and isn’t in his resting place, he teleports to his resting place. While in his resting place, Rhodar is stable. After spending 1 hour in his resting place with 0 hit points, he regains 1 hit point. Spear Sacrifice ( 3 /Day). Rhodar is surrounded by three floating spears of shimmering darkness, which he can summon to a free hand on his turn (no action required). When Rhodar fails an ability check or saving throw, he can choose to destroy one of these spears and succeed on the ability check or saving throw instead. Once Rhodar destroys all three spears, he can’t use his Spear of the Damned attack or Spear Sacrifice until the next dusk, when he manifests any destroyed spears. Actions Multiattack. Rhodar makes two Sanguinus attacks, and he can make one Spear of the Damned attack for each Spear Sacrifice use he has remaining. Sanguinus. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, their hit point maximum is reduced by a number equal to the necrotic dam­age taken, and Rhodar regains hit points equal to that number. This reduction lasts until reversed by a cure ailment power of 4th order or higher, a greater restoration spell, or a similar supernatural effect. The target dies if this effect reduces their hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way rises the following midnight as a vampire spawn under Rhodar’s control. Spear of the Damned. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) force damage, and if the target is a creature, they are knocked prone and restrained as a spear of darkness impales them. A creature can attempt to free themself or another creature within their reach by using an action or a bonus action to make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check. On a success, the creature is freed and the restrained condition ends for them. The creature is also freed if Rhodar summons that spear to attack another target or destroys it using Spear Sacrifice. Bonus Actions Beguile. Rhodar targets one creature he can see within 30 feet of him and who can see him. The target must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature uses their reaction, if available, to move up to their speed to a location chosen by Rhodar, then either makes a melee attack against a target of Rhodar’s choice or falls prone (Rhodar’s choice). Inhuman Agility. Rhodar moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Reactions Withering Stare. When Rhodar is hit by an attack by a creature he can see within 60 feet of him, his eyes bore into the creature. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or take 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Villain Actions Rhodar has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Bloodstained. Rhodar causes blood to explode in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point he can see within 120 feet of him. Creatures who aren’t Undead in that area must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or be bloodstained until the end of Rhodar’s next turn. Rhodar has advantage on attack rolls against bloodstained creatures, and bloodstained creatures have disadvantage on saving throws against Rhodar’s Beguile bonus action. Action 2 : Fire Drake. Rhodar, along with anything he is wearing or carrying, turns into a Large dragon made of fire. When he does, he releases any creature he was grappling, and if Rhodar was grappled or restrained, that effect ends for him. He then flies up to twice his speed to an unoccupied space. During this move, Rhodar ignores difficult terrain, doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks, and can move through creatures and objects. Each creature Rhodar passes through must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. At the end of this movement, Rhodar transforms back into his previous form. Action 3 : Mist of Blades. Rhodar fills the area within 60 feet of him with thick swirling mists, heavily obscuring that area for other creatures. He can teleport up to four times into any unoccupied space in the mist and make one Sanguinus attack after each teleport. The mist dissipates at the end of this action. Utility Spells In addition to any other spells in this stat block, Rhodar can cast the following spells, using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: charm person A , detect thoughts A , disguise self A , sending A 3/day each: clairvoyance + , geas (at 9th level) + , leg end lore + While we drink blood, specters, wraiths, and other dead creatures without form feed on a different lifeforce. Some say it is energy drawn from the souls of the living these ghosts pass through. Other sages take a more tangible approach, claiming the spirits siphon the warmth needed to survive from the bodies of mortals. Whatever the case, these undead have no interest in feeding on vampires, and therefore make perfect companions. Count Rhodar von Glauer

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

