# Crab, Duffel

**description**: An enormous hermit crab pulls itself along the beach with its deep-red claws. Oddly, the bulk of its body is hidden inside a bag much too small to contain a creature of its size. Duffel crabs are often found along coastlines and shipping routes where shipwrecks are common. Destroyed shipping vessels using extradimensional bags, chests, and other items to save on weight leave valuable trinkets for curious creatures. Duffel crabs come into existence when a hermit crab stumbles upon an extradimensional bag and takes it up as a shell. The latent magic of the bag causes the crab to grow to an enormous size. Food Hoarders. The crab's bag provides an excellent storage solution to save food for a later date. A duffel crab's bag is often stocked with rotting sea creatures and the bodies of unfortunate sailors collected from shipwrecks. Living creatures are no exception in the crab's eyes, as they never live long in the suffocating interior of the extradimensional space. Risky Treasure. To budding adventurers, duffel crabs present the opportunity to gain a unique treasure, if they are experienced and strong enough to face a hungry crab the size of a draft horse. Extradimensional Bag. The duffel crab uses an extra-dimensional space, such as a bag of holding , as its “shell.” The bag can hold creatures in addition to the crab, based on the size of the extradimensional space. Breathing creatures inside the bag can survive up to a number of minutes equal to 10 divided by the number of creatures (minimum 1 minute), after which time they begin to suffocate. If the bag is overloaded, pierced, or torn, it ruptures and is destroyed. While this would normally cause the contents to be lost in the Astral Plane, the crab's half-in, half-out existence kept the bag constantly open, even when it fully withdrew, altering the bag, which simply spills out its contents into the area when the bag is destroyed or the crab dies. The bag becomes a standard bag of holding or similar magic item with extradimensional space 24 hours after the crab dies. False Appearance. While motionless and withdrawn into its extradimensional bag, the duffel crab is indistinguishable from its extradimensional bag with an ajar lid or opening. Actions Multiattack. The duffel crab makes two Claw attacks, or it makes one Claw attack and uses Collect. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the crab can't attack another target with that claw. The crab has two claws, each of which can grapple only one target. Collect. The crab places one target it is grappling into its extradimensional space, provided there is room, and the grapple ends. The target is blinded and restrained, and it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the extradimensional space. A trapped creature can take its action to climb out of the bag by succeeding on a DC 13 Strength or Dexterity check (the creature's choice). If the crab dies, a trapped creature is no longer restrained by the crab and can escape from the bag using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

