# Cradle of the Storm Scion

**description**: A scion of Stronmaus often slumbers high in the sky or deep in the ocean, where the tumult caused by the scion’s restless sleep has little effect on the world. If it drifts too near the ground or the ocean surface, it causes mighty storms or fierce maelstroms. A scion’s slumber is filled with dreams ranging from inspiring visions of Annam’s return to melancholy prophecies of inevitable decline, from joyful glimpses of an idyllic past to horrific nightmares of torment and devastation. A cradle of the storm scion stirs into action not only when the scion is threatened but also if the scion’s sleep is troubled by nightmares. When roused, the cradle takes on a vaguely giant-shaped form consisting of air, water, and ice whirling in fury. If the cradle is destroyed, the scion of Stronmaus inside it awakens. Among the mightiest creatures of all giantkind, the scion stands 80 feet tall. It often finds some relief in waking and being freed from its troubling dreams, so it doesn’t necessarily lash out in violence when emerging from its cradle. But it’s not particularly interested in Humanoids or other little creatures—either in conversing with them or in protecting them from harm it might cause. If the scion is threatened, it unleashes elemental might like few other forces in the multiverse can muster: blades of lightning, boulder-sized hailstones, and a storm of churning elements. Regional Effects The region surrounding a scion of Stronmaus is altered by the giant’s magic, creating one or more of the following effects: Elemental Portals. Two-way portals to the Elemental Plane of Air (if the scion is in the sky) or the Elemental Plane of Water (if the scion is in the ocean) form within 1 mile of the cradle or scion, allowing elemental creatures into the world. Empowered Storm Giants. Storm giants within 1,000 feet of the scion gain a +8 bonus to attack and damage rolls. Extreme Weather. The weather within 1 mile of the scion dramatically shifts day to day, ranging from pleasantly sunny to brutal hailstorms. If the scion dies, these effects end immediately. Scions of Giants' Gods Giants are descended from the All-Father, Annam, and his children. But scions of giants’ gods boast a greater claim: they are Annam’s grandchildren, and they occupy a privileged place among giants. On some worlds, these scions ruled the first empires of giants until Annam retreated into seclusion. On other worlds, the scions guard their birthplaces (which are rich in elemental magic) or hold the substance of the world together. (See “ Giants of Myth ” in chapter 3 for additional inspiration.) Scions of giants’ gods are enormously powerful beings who infuse the world around them with primeval magic. In many worlds, they slumber and have become part of the landscape. In this case, each scion is enclosed in stasis inside a powerful Elemental called a cradle. The cradle protects the slumbering scion and follows its subconscious wishes, including driving off intruders. But if the cradle dies, the scion within fully awakens. Traits Awakening of the Scion. The cradle is a container for the scion of Stronmaus . When the cradle drops to 0 hit points, its body bursts into light. The scion instantly appears in the space the cradle occupied and uses the cradle's initiative count. Legendary Resistance (5/Day). If the cradle fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The cradle has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Siege Monster. The cradle deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattck. The cradle makes three Slam or Spit Hailstone attacks in any combination. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 36 (4d12 + 10) bludgeoning damage plus 19 (3d12) lightning damage. Spit Hailstone. Ranged Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 32 (4d10 + 10) bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6) cold damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 26 Strength saving throw or have the prone condition. Lightning Barrage (Recharge 5-6). The cradle hurls multiple magical lightning bolts at up to two creatures it can see within 500 feet of itself. Each target must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 71 (11d12) lightning damage and has the stunned condition until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage only. Reactions Booming Step. Immediately after taking damage, the cradle cracks with thunder and then magically teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Each creature within 10 feet of the space the cradle left must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Elemental
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 24749
- Challenge Rating: 27

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Bigby Presents - Glory of the Giants

