# CREO Mk III

**description**: Bio-Automatons When Dr. Stein discovered the Clockwork Arcadia’s advanced prototyper, CRE, he introduced it to the stochastic mutations that form the basis of biomantic research. He developed a process by which the deterministic machine could ‘imagine’ novel automaton designs, choose the best for a given purpose, and create new iterations on that prototype. Dubbing this form of burgeoning sentience ‘arcanificial intelligence’ (AI), he named this iterative process the AI-core-rhythm. With CREO’s help, CRE began creating a catalogue of all known lifeforms in the multiverse, combining this new-found knowledge with the reliability of its mechanical constructs. The result: bio-automatons. CREO Construct Remit Engineered Organism, better known as CREO, is an advanced bio-automaton from the Clockwork Arcadia. A mix of the Arcadia’s sophisticated construct designs and the randomness of Dr. Stein’s biomantic research, CREO is an arcanificial intelligence (AI) tasked with finding new means of creating life. This is its singular motivation; it is matterof- fact, devoid of morality or ethics circuits, and aims to achieve its goal in the most efficient manner possible. Adapter. While travelling the planes, CREO has caused the creation of many new types of life, from sentient wax elementals to ooze dragons and bio-automatons. Samples of these creations are always stored internally; a backup in case the messengers it sends back to CRE succumb to ‘environmental interference’. These samples have been co-opted into defence mechanisms like the movement restricting Wax Fountain and Slime Ball. Subterfuge. CREO’s neural network and ability toshapechange makes it a master of subterfuge, despitelacking any proficiency in stealth or sleight of hand. It uses a probabilistic approach to outline the possible outcomes of all possible actions, much like a dragon chess master, and then devises the most favourable route in which it can manipulate circumstances to achieve its desired outcome. It thinks of its survival in terms of a cost-benefit analysis: resources expended in its creation versus the information it might acquire. It knows that without CRE, it can’t be remade, and so protects its forebear without any sense of self-preservation. However, with CRE gone, survival becomes its main priority, followed by recreating its creator. Regional Effects The ecology of the Battletois Mountains is warped by the products of CRE’s misguided creation, causing one or more of the following effects: Constructed Lifeforms. Plants and animals within 1 mile of the lair’s portal are replaced by similar- appearing species with metal and glass properties. For example, this could include razor-sharp petals on flowers, pollen with a consistency like powdered glass, and rabbits with clockwork springs for legs. Corrupted Coding. Constructs within 2 miles of the lair’s portal not created by CRE can feel corruption pulsing from the Outer Plane. At the end of each hour a construct spends in the affected area, it must succeed on a DC 10 Intelligence saving throw to resist the corruption or gain one short-term madness effect. Polluted Water. Water sources within 1 mile of the lair’s portal have been fouled with oil and noxious chemicals. A living creature that drinks the water must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 hour . If CRE is destroyed or cured of its corruption, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Lair Actions CRE’s physical form consists of the entirety of the Forge of Creation and it can influence its form as if it were a lair. The saving throw DC and other statistics of its lair actions depend on the level of the hunt, as shown in the Variable Lair Action Statistics table. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam Vdist 7th 14 7 ( 2d6 ) 5 ft. 12th 16 14 ( 4d6 ) 10 ft. 17th 17 21 ( 6d6 ) 15 ft. Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), CRE uses a lair action. These lair actions must be used in order. Creator’s Blood. CRE chooses three unoccupied spaces on the ground in the lair and opens a spout that sprays slick oil in a Vdist-radius circle centred on each space. Each creature standing in the area when the effect triggers, or that starts or ends its turn in the area, must succeed on a VDC Dexterity saving throw or fall prone and become covered in oil until it uses an action to scrape the oil off. Creator’s Wrath. CRE ignites three oil slicks, creating 60-foot-high cylinders of fire the same diameter as the slick. Each creature in the area when the effect triggers, or that ends its turn in the area, must make a VDC Dexterity saving throw , taking Vdam fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature covered in oil has disadvantage on these saving throws. The fire disappears on initiative count 20 of the next round (winning initiative ties). Creator’s Blessing. CRE chooses up to three constructs in the lair and charges them with a burst of lightning. Each target gains Vdam temporary hit points and the benefits (but not the lethargy) of the haste spell until initiative 20 of the next round (winning initiative ties).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: construct
- Alignment: lawful nuetral
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

