# Crime Boss

**description**: Criminal activity in Rokugan is harshly punished, but that just makes the rewards all the more tempting. While most criminals never advance beyond petty thievery or acting as brigands, some come to lead large organizations that wield power on par with provincial lords. Bandit Captains. Bandits who manage to survive their dangerous profession usually become cunning and dangerous. Large bandit groups might function essentially as villages, and their leaders might spend far more time governing these groups than conducting day-to-day activities. By contrast, smaller and more focused bandit groups might even sell their services to samurai lords, doing clandestine jobs for them or raiding the lands of their rivals. Syndicate Leaders. The largest crime syndicates are found in Rokugan’s burgeoning cities, but criminal organizations can be found in many parts of the Empire. The leaders of these organizations tend to be as shrewd and politically savvy as any provincial lord. Criminal Hideouts. Many bandits make their homes in out-of-the-way locations, such as abandoned castles, cavern networks, and villages in the deep wilds. Criminal syndicates tend to choose more opulent locations, from the hidden backrooms of tea houses in flourishing cities to the mansions at the outskirts of town to entire ships that function as pirate vessels. A crime boss has access to lair abilities while within their hideout. Table A-7: Crime Boss Motivations D6 Roll Crime Boss Motivations 1 Is gripped by a fear that the other local factions are encroaching on their territory or prestige. 2 Desires to live to enjoy the wealth and power they have taken. 3 Is looking for a successor so that they can retire to a pleasant life. 4 Wants to end an old feud with a rival group or power. 5 Conscientiously seeks to improve the lives of their followers, allies, and family. 6 Wants to expand their operations as much as possible. Traits Survival Instinct. When a crime boss’s current hit points are lower than or equal to half its maximum hit points (29 or lower), its AC becomes 15. Actions Multiattack. The crime boss makes two attacks. Reinforced Pipe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 1 target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) bludgeoning damage. …Get Them! A crime boss can give an order for up to 3 friendly ruffians within 30 feet to immediately move 10 feet, then make a melee or ranged attack against one creature in range. I’ll Show You How It’s Done. The crime boss lashes out with a low blow, and one character in 5 feet must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or suffer one of the following conditions of the crime boss’s choice until the end of its next turn: distracted (–2 AC, removed after it is hit by an attack) or maimed (–10 ft. of speed and disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws, removed after it regains HP). Lair Actions A crime boss can use the following lair actions if encountered in its hideout, and is considered CR 4 (1,100 XP). I Have You at a Disadvantage (Recharge 6). On initiative count 20 (losing ties), a crime boss in its hideout can call for three additional ruffians to step out of an area of low light, or somewhere else they were hidden in ambush. If the guards have already been dispatched, the crime boss cannot use this ability. Remember, Always Have an Exit. On initiative count 20 (losing ties), a crime boss in their hideout can reveal a (hitherto concealed) escape route from their lair and immediately moves up to 40 feet toward it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any species)
- Alignment: any non-lawful
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

