# Crocosphinx

**description**: The crocosphinx is a nightmarish monstrosity that lurks in bayous, creeks, marshes, rivers, and swamps. It has a hulking leonine body, large feathered wings, and a crocodilian tail. Its head is that of a massive crocodile with light green osteoderms and a maw filled with sharp, serrated teeth, framed by a lion's mane with small horn-like scales jutting out from its nape to the back of its body. Water Dweller. Like its reptilian kin, the crocosphinx spends most of its time submerged with only its eyes, snout, and top of its head visible. Its wings secrete an oily substance that resists water, enabling the crocosphinx to emerge from underwater and immediately fly effortlessly. Ambush Hunter. The crocosphinx hunts very much like a crocodile, patiently waiting for prey to approach when they come for a drink at the edge of the riverbank. When their target is within striking distance, the crocosphinx explodes from the water with blinding speed, propelling itself with its powerful tail and wings before locking its prey with its jaws. The crocosphinx then drag its victim into the water where it can use its death roll. Monstrous Allies. Crocosphinxes are aggressive, cruel, and evil. They sometimes lead tribes of lizardfolk and gatorfolk, who revere them. They have been known to associate with black dragons, hag covens, mummy lords, evil nagas, and yuan-ti. Sphinxes Not all sphinxes are divine guardians tasked to guard gods' treasures. Some sphinxes, like the canisphinx, crocosphinx, dracosphinx, luposphinx, taurusphinx, and the threskisphinx, are free to do as they please. They sometimes work as mercenaries, offering their services to powerful entities. Traits Hold Breath. The sphinx can hold its breath for 30 minutes. Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Magic Weapons. The sphinx's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The sphinx makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage. It can use Death Roll in place of its Bite attack, if available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, the sphinx can automatically hit the target with its Bite attack, and the sphinx can't attack another target with its Bite attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Death Roll (Recharge 5-6). While the sphinx is underwater, a creature the sphinx is grappling must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 31 (4d12 + 5) slashing damage and is stunned until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't stunned. Hiss and Bellow (2/Day). The sphinx emits a magical hiss or bellow. The first time it uses this feature before finishing a long rest, the sphinx uses Hiss. The second time it uses this feature before finishing a long rest, it uses Bellow. Each creature within 60 feet of the sphinx and able to hear the Sphinx must make a saving throw. Hiss. Each creature that fails a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bellow. Each creature that fails a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature is knocked prone and stunned and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The sphinx can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The sphinx regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw Attack. The sphinx makes one Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The sphinx magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Raking Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The sphinx moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and makes two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

