# Cult Exarch of Asmodeus

**description**: The Cult of Asmodeus is the largest and arguably the most feared of the diabolical cults. While other cults may worship different archdevils, they must still acknowledge Asmodeus as the supreme leader that holds power and authority over them. Power and Wealth. Although the cult may have fiendish and monstrous members, the majority of its sects are secretly located in civilized human cities and a few from the other fair races. Those who join the cult mostly use the membership to take advantage of the cult’s political reach and deep resources to gain wealth and power. As such, a large number of members are local politicians, merchants, and noblemen. Shrewd Negotiators. However, some do join in hopes of following the ideology of Asmodeus and become priests. Like Asmodeus, the cultists see themselves cut above the rest, and are often regarded by others as arrogant, cruel, and elitist. But despite these negative qualities, majority of their membership are very sharp, intuitive, and very skillful diplomats, forming secret alliances and lucrative trade deals with various organizations, legitimate or not. They have been mostly successful due to their ability to use Dominance of Nessus, as well as their array of coercive spells. If they encounter a threat or problem, they rarely act on it themselves. Instead, they use or leverage other individuals, organizations, or cults to take care of it. Traits Demands of Nessus. At the start of each of the cult exarch's turns, it can choose one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. The chosen ally loses 10 hit points, and the cult exarch regains the same number of hit points. If the cult exarch is incapacitated, it makes no choice; instead, the closest ally within 30 feet is the chosen ally. Actions Multiattack. The cult high priest makes two Red Scepter attacks. Ruby Scepter (Mace). Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8) psychic damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is stunned until the end of the cult exarch's next turn. Word of Submission (Recharges after a Long Rest). The cult exarch channels the voice of Asmodeus through a word of power. Each creature of the cult exarch's choice that is within 60 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by Word of Submission must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 18 (4d8) psychic damage is frightened for 1 minute. A creature frightened in this way is stunned. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to Word of Submission for the next 24 hours. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. Spellcasting. The cult exarch casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks): At will: guidance, sacred flame (4d8), thaumaturgy 3/day each: command, hold person 1/day each: antimagic field, banishment, bestow curse, confusion, dominate monster, dominate person, fear, flame strike, project image Bonus Actions Dominance of Nessus (4/Day). Saving throws made against the cult exarch's spells and actions this turn are made with disadvantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

