# Cyonaxin

**description**: A cheetah with pale blue spots and glowing blue eyes carries itself regally. When it sprints, it leaves afterimages of itself in its wake. Carefree celestial cheetahs, cyonaxin enjoy sprinting through grasslands. The obligate carnivores constrain their diet to non-sentient creatures, except for those who subjugate others. Beacons of Freedom. Cyonaxin believe every creature should be free from slavery, captivity, and imprisonment. They concede imprisonment is sometimes necessary, but they view execution as more merciful. Friendly Competitors. Though the celestial cheetahs take their responsibilities seriously, they delight in friendly competition. They compare their results against other cyonaxin and engage in spirited rivalries with blestsessebe (see). Cyonaxin can be reckless in freeing their charges and sometimes lose people in their care. They regard such losses as unfortunate but still victories since the deceased enjoyed the taste of freedom before dying. Blur of Motion. When the cyonaxin moves at least 30 feet on its turn, ranged attack rolls against it have disadvantage until the start of its next turn. Chain Breaker. The cyonaxin deals double damage to objects that restrain creatures. Evasion. If the cyonaxin is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the cyonaxin instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Freedom of Movement. The cyonaxin ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can't reduce its speed or cause it to be restrained. It can spend 5 feet of movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or being grappled. Keen Smell. The cyonaxin has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Magic Resistance. The cyonaxin has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The cyonaxin's weapon attacks are magical. Pounce. If the cyonaxin moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the cyonaxin can make one Bite attack against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack. The cyonaxin makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) radiant damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d4 + 6) slashing damage. Frightful Yowl (Recharge 6). The cyonaxin screeches, the sound growing more intense over a few seconds. Each hostile creature within 60 feet of the cyonaxin and that can hear it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A creature grappling or restraining another creature has disadvantage on its saving throws. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Liberating Churr (Recharge 5-6) . The cyonaxin issues a loud, staccato chirp. Each friendly creature within 90 feet of the cyonaxin and that can hear it gains the benefits of the cyonaxin's Freedom of Movement trait. In addition, each affected creature grows claws, which it can use to make unarmed strikes. When an affected creature hits with a claw, its claw deals slashing damage equal to 1d6 + its Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. These benefits last until the start of the cyonaxin's next turn. Bonus Actions Free Runner. The cyonaxin can take the Dash action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

