# Danisil Hunter-Scholar

**description**: The Danisil Hunter-Scholar appears in Midnight - Legacy of Darkness. Warriors against the Shadow Even as hope fades and Izrador has occupied Erenland for a hundred years, some still fight against the Shadow. Under the boughs of the Great Forest, the veteran warriors of the Caransil elves exact a lethal tally on the orc legions who invade their homes. Each Caransil Guardian is a trained archer and skilled swordfighter, but what makes them especially dangerous is their ability to cast spells to augment their fighting capabilities. Their cousins, the Danisil Hunter-Scholars , are even more adept at wielding magic to defeat their foes, and are also trained in the deadly art of combating demons and fell spirits. Human Servants of the Shadow Though the ranks of the Shadow’s armies are filled with legions of orcs, many humans also serve Izrador. Some of these are devoted followers, while others are press-ganged recruits, and many sign on to the Shadow simply for a meal or a chance to exercise a bit of power over their former neighbors. And of course, many of the legates who serve the Shadow are humans as well. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Traits Danisil Wards. The Danisil hunter-scholar has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Fey Ancestry. The Danisil hunter-scholar has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic cannot put them to sleep. Spellcasting. The Danisil hunter-scholar is a 10th level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). The Danisil hunter-scholar has the following spells prepared. Cantrips (at will): acid splash, fire bolt, light, minor illusion, ray of frost 1st level (4 slots): expeditious retreat, feather fall, protection from evil and good, shield 2nd level (3 slots): acid arrow, see invisibility, silver blood 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, protection from energy, slow 4th level (3 slots): silver wind, stoneskin 5th level (2 slots): hold monster, silver storm Actions Multiattack. The Danasil hunter-scholar makes two melee attacks. Silvered Sepi. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

