# Dao Great Khan

**description**: The Great Khan is the undisputed ruler of the dao. It lives in a massive gem-encrusted stone palace within the Great Dismal Cave, a region carved and built entirely from slave labor. As one of the true primary genies, it can even grant a wish. However, it loathes to do so and almost never does. Traits Earth Glide. The dao can burrow through nonmagical, unworked earth and stone. While doing so, the dao doesn't disturb the material it moves through. Elemental Demise. If the dao dies, its body disintegrates into crystalline powder, leaving behind only equipment the dao was wearing or carrying. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dao fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The dao has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Greater Spell Penetration. When the dao casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Surefooted. The dao has advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would knock it prone. Actions Multiattack. The dao makes two Fist attacks or two Maul attacks. Fist . Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 29 (6d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. A creature that fails the save by 5 or more is also stunned until the end of its next turn. Spellcasting. The dao casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect evil and good, detect magic, move earth, passwall, stone shape, tongues 3/day each: conjure elemental (earth elemental only, as an action), dispel magic, gaseous form, invisibility, phantasmal killer, plane shift, wall of stone 1/day each: earthquake, flesh to stone Teleport. The dao magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Grant Wish (3/Year). The dao grants a wish spell to a creature that isn't a genie. In order to work, the dao must be willing to grant the wish . Unless carefully and properly worded, the dao will pervert the wish's intent into a literal but undesirable or partial fulfillment. The dao can't grant a wish purposely to serve its own needs. Legendary Actions The dao can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dao regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Maul. The dao makes a Maul attack. Teleport. The dao uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The dao uses Spellcasting. Conjure Boulders (Costs 3 Actions). The dao creates up to three boulders and magically hurl them at targets within 120 feet. The dao makes a ranged spell attack (+10 to hit) for each boulder. On a hit, the target takes 25 (4d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Elemental
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

