# Darakhul General

**description**: This proud and commanding darakhul meets every threat with a steely gaze and a blade crackling with necrotic power. Traits Imperial Authority. All darakhul and ghouls automatically acknowledge the commanding presence of a general but may not automatically obey depending on the relationship between them. Hungry Dead Nature. Darakhul generals don't require air or sleep. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the darakhul fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Master of Disguise. A darakhul in a prepared disguise has advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks made to pass as a living creature. While using this ability, the darakhul loses their Stench. Necrotic Weapons. The darakhul's weapon attacks are magical. When the darakhul hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 5d6 necrotic damage (included in the attack). Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the darakhul must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the darakhul's Stench for 24 hours. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the darakhul has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Turning Defiance. The darakhul and any ghouls within 60 feet of the darakhul have advantage on saving throws against effects that turn undead. Actions Multiattack. The darakhul uses Targeting Directive and makes three weapon attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a humanoid, they must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or contract darakhul fever. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature other than an undead, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a humanoid is paralyzed for more than 2 rounds, it contracts darakhul fever. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 17 (5d6) necrotic damage. Tactical Strike (Recharge 5-6). The darakhul barks out an order. Up to five allied ghouls within 120 feet that can hear the darakhul can use their reactions to each make one weapon attack. Targeting Directive. One of the darakhul's allies within 60 feet that can hear the directive deals an extra 10 (3d6) damage to creatures it hits with a weapon attack until the beginning of the darakhul's next turn. Legendary Actions The darakhul general can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The darakhul regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn: Reposition. The darakhul can take a Dash action. Attack (Costs 2 action). The darakhul makes one weapon attack. Rejuvenation (Costs 3 actions). The darakhul drains life energy from one ghoul ally within 60 feet that they can see. The ghoul crumbles to dust and the darakhul regains hit points equal to the target's remaining hit points, plus 1 for each of the target's Hit Dice.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

