# Darien Ashbrow

**description**: Elegant, bright, and charming, Darien Ashbrow is the son of Cas Ashbrow, a dwarf military general of modest renown. Since his father’s passing, Darien has transformed Cas’s extensive curio collection into a thriving antique store. Ashbrow’s Oddities draws the attention of museum archivists, historians, and rich nobles seeking conversation pieces for their showrooms. Darien makes a point to never publicly reveal the full contents of his father’s collection, vexing entitled fat cats who yearn for never-before-seen pieces at Darien’s private auctions. Truthfully, the Ashbrow family treasure is more myth than material, a meager stock of clan weapons, baubles, and other heirlooms Darien mostly sold off decades ago in pursuit of his business. However, the mystery allows the mustachioed dwarf to shroud his crimes, touting burgled goods as exclusive pieces to eager, unwitting buyers. Normally a dwarf of few words, Darien lights up at opportunities for show and tell, especially those related to weapons, armor, or the history of warfare. Darien uses the veteran stat block with the following changes: His walking speed is 25 feet. He has advantage on saving throws against poison and resistance to poison damage. He has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. Personality Trait . “I offer unprompted, verbose musings on the history of my antiques.” Ideal . “All is fair in love and war.” Bond . “I have borrowed from my ancestors to build a treasure of my own. My legacy must be monumental.” Flaw . “I sometimes embellish my wares with white lies to increase their value.” Inventory Following in the steps of his father, Darien has amassed a collection of his own. He can sell the characters any nonmagical armor, shield, or weapon at normal cost. At the GM’s discretion, he may be willing to sell some of these items at a discount if they have heat. Darien also has several magic items available for sale, as outlined in the Ashbrow’s Arms and Armor table. Item Price Adamantine armor 500 gp Mithral armor 750 gp Flame tongue 5,000 gp Wand of the war mage, +1 1,000 gp Weapon, +1 1,000 gp Special Service: Firearms Darien's interest in all things warfare exposed him to black powder. A rarity among criminals of any caliber, Ashbrow’s Oddities carries a secret stash of firearms and black powder weapons. At the GM’s discretion, Darien has the firearms listed in the Firearms table available for sale, all of which are martial ranged weapons. Ammunition . Bullets and black powder are sold packaged together (10 rounds for 2 gp). Blunderbuss . The blunderbuss uses three bullets instead of one and targets all creatures in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw, the DC of which is equal to 8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus. A creature takes 2d4 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Pistol. At the GM’s discretion, characters with the Two-Weapon Fighting fighting style can wield a pair of these one-handed ranged weapons simultaneously. When you take the Attack action while wielding two pistols and attack with a pistol you hold in one hand, you can use a bonus action to attack with the pistol you hold in the other hand. Reload . A weapon with the reload property can be fired a number of times equal to its reload score before you must spend an action or a bonus action to reload it. Powder Kegs . Darien also discreetly offers powder kegs. When a barrel takes fire damage, it explodes in a 30-foot-radius sphere. Creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Weapon Cost Damage Weight Properties Pistol 200 gp 1d8 piercing 5lb. Ammunition (range 30/90), reload (6 shots) Blunderbuss 300 gp 2d4 piercing 8lb. Ammunition (special), reload (1 shot), two-handed Rifle 400 gp 2d6 piercing 10 lb. Ammunition (range 60/180), reload (4 shots), two-handed Powder keg (barrel) 500 gp Special 100 lb. Specials

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Dwarf)
- Expansion: 22441
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 11

