# Dark Naga

**description**: The devious dark naga has a 15-foot long serpentine body covered in glossy dark gray scales that often has a black and blue striped pattern. It has a hoodless head and a tail that ends in a sharp stinger from which drips a sleep-inducing venom. Creature of Avarice. The dark naga craves wealth and power above all and will go to extreme lengths to accumulate them. Unlike other nagas that tend to be solitary, the dark naga recognizes the value of forging alliances with other beings. It works with creatures it knows can eventually exploit and quietly eliminates those it sees as future threats. Dark nagas, however, hate their kind and cannot stand each other's presence. They will ruthlessly slay the other at the first opportunity. Master Manipulators. Dark nagas dwell within ancient ruins, sprawling dungeons, and even urban sewers – anywhere they can build a following of potential worshippers. Some dark nagas have managed to control humanoid tribes such as kobolds, goblinoids, lizardfolk, and orcs by establishing themselves as advisers to their chieftains. They exert their influence and subtly manipulate the chieftains to make decisions that help further the dark nagas' goals. They are very successful at doing these because of their natural ability to mask their lies and true intentions. Giver of Nightmares. The dark naga is a skilled sorcerer, able to cast spells quicker or make its spells more potent. Anyone that succumbs to the venom of its stinger falls unconscious. In this state, the victim is in a deep sleep and experiencing a harrowing nightmare that is difficult to wake from. If the victim succeeds in waking, the ordeal still leaves it shaken. Immortal Nature. A naga doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Inscrutable. The naga is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the naga's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Rejuvenation. If it dies, the naga returns to life in 1d6 days and regains all its hit points. Only a wish spell can prevent this trait from functioning. Sorcery Points. The naga has 7 sorcery points. It can spend 1 or more sorcery points to gain one of the following benefits: Heightened Spell: When the naga casts a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist the spell's effects, the naga can spend 3 sorcery points to give one target of the spell disadvantage on its first saving throw against the spell. Quickened Spell: When the naga casts a spell that has a casting time of 1 action, the naga can spend 2 sorcery points to change the casting time to 1 bonus action for this casting. Actions Multiattack. The naga makes two melee attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Sting. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. Until this poison ends, the target is unconscious and is in a nightmare-haunted sleep. An unconscious creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the unconscious creature takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake, it gains advantage on its saving throw. A creature that awakens from this effect becomes frightened until the end of its next turn. Spellcasting. The naga casts one of the following spells, requiring only verbal components and Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks): At will: chill touch (2d8), detect magic, mage hand, minor illusion, true strike 1/day each: charm person, darkness, greater invisibility,* lightning bolt, major image scorching ray, suggestion *The dark naga casts this spell on itself before combat.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

