# Dawn Specter

**description**: Commonly found in Aereni, a dawn specter is a variety of ghost that’s actually a deathless, rather than being tied to Dolurrh or Mabar. Each dawn specter must be bound to something—either a location or a spirit idol (discussed in Exploring Eberron )—but its ability to manifest is tied to the devotion it receives from the people of a community. So you might find the dawn specter of a bard entertaining patrons in an Aereni tavern; the joy of the patrons is what allows it to maintain its form and interact with the world. Dawn specters can possess mortals just like ghosts; however, most dawn specters can’t go more than 10 miles from the object or location they are bound to, even while possessing a mortal. Some Aereni willingly allow dawn specters to possess them, allowing the dead elf to interact directly with its descendants; however, a willing host’s mind usually can’t maintain this possession for more than a few hours or days, depending on their force of will, after which the specter is forced out. Dawn Specter Statistics A dawn specter uses a ghost stat block with these changes: Replace its immunity to necrotic damage with immunity to radiant damage. Replace its Withering Touch attack with a Radiant Touch attack that deals radiant damage. Replace its Horrifying Visage action with a Glorious Visage action that charms victims rather than frightening them, and that doesn't age its targets. Traits Ethereal Sight. The specter can see 60 ft. into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa. Incorporeal Movement. The specter can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Actions Radiant Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (4d6 + 3) radiant damage. Etherealness. The specter enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can't affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Glorious Visage. Each non-undead creature within 60 ft. of the specter that can see it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 minute. A charmed target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the charmed condition on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this specter's Glorious Visage for the next 24 hours. Possession (Recharge 6). One humanoid that the specter can see within 5 ft. of it must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the specter; the specter then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The specter now controls the body but doesn't deprive the target of awareness. The specter can't be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except ones that turn undead, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target's statistics, but doesn't gain access to the target's knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the specter ends it as a bonus action, or the specter is turned or forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the specter reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 ft. of the body. The target is immune to this specter's Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 21558
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

