# Death

**description**: In the forlorn Luyarnha, where clerics and hunters hold sway, magic capable of resurrecting the fallen is often called "The Call of Death." For those who have journeyed beyond the veil of mortality and dare return, an irremovable stain is left on their soul, beckoning their demise — “Death”. A monster that stalks those who have eluded the clutches of the grave, a creature whose sole purpose is to snuff out the lives of those who have defied their fate, Death ’s reputation is such that its mere mention is enough to send shivers down the spines of those afflicted. No one knows for certain where Death came from or why it was unleashed upon the world, but its presence is a grim reminder of the fragility of life. Yet there are those who seek to defy this fate, who cling to life with a desperate fervor, willing to pay any price to cheat its relentless march, those who would think themselves above their kin, but to Death, their life has the same worth as that of a beggar’s—two gold coins, which shall cover their eyes until it finds its next prey. Traits Blood Frenzy. Death has advantage on melee attack rolls made against any creature that doesn't have all its hit points. Death's Embrace. A creature killed by Death can be restored to life only by a wish spell. Magic Resistance. Death has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. Death's weapon attacks are magical. Turn Immunity. Death is immune to features that turn undead. Actions Multiattack. Death uses its Whistle of Death and makes four claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d4 + 6) slashing damage, and the target gains one bleeding die if it’s a creature. A creature can have up to ten bleeding dice, which are d4s. A creature rolls its bleeding dice at the start of each of its turns, taking slashing damage equal to the total rolled. This damage can’t be reduced in any way. Each time the creature regains hit points, the number of hit points it regains is halved and it loses one bleeding die. A creature within 5 feet of a creature with one or more bleeding dice can use its action to make a Medicine check (DC 10 + the number of bleeding dice), removing all bleeding dice on a success. If the creature has a healer's kit, it can expend two uses of the kit to automatically succeed on the check. Change Shape. Death magically polymorphs into a humanoid or beast that has a challenge rating no higher than its own, or back into its true form. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (Death's choice). In a new form, Death retains its alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this action. Its statistics and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of the new form, except any class features or legendary actions of that form. Whistle of Death. One creature of Death's choice within 120 feet of Death and aware of it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature that has ever died automatically fails this saving throw. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Death's Whistle of Death for the next 24 hours. Bonus actions Final Minute (1/Day). Death briefly stops the flow of time for all creatures except itself and one creature that it can see. No time passes for other creatures, while Death and the target take 1 minute, during which they can use actions and move as normal. This effect ends if one of the actions Death uses or effects it creates during this period affects a creature other than it and its target or an object being worn or carried by a creature other than Death and its target. Death must concentrate on this ability (as if concentrating on a spell). Scraping Charge. Death moves up to its speed in a straight line toward a target. If Death then hits it with its next claw attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 5 (1d10) slashing damage. Reactions Deflect. Death adds 4 to its AC against one attack that would hit it. To do so Death must see the attacker. Close the Gap. When Death is targeted by a ranged weapon attack, it can teleport to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the attacker. To do so, Death must see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

