# Death's Head of Bhaal

**description**: Bhaal and His Followers Bhaal is a god of murder who lends power to those whose killings invoke fear and dread. The act of murder is only half the equation. The second half is the suspicion, paranoia, and fear that a seemingly unstoppable killer can evoke. Bhaal seeks to inspire fear by slaying those seemingly beyond the reach of death. Bhaal always carries a red handkerchief somewhere on his person. He can take on an alternate appearance regardless of his current form, that of a hulking brute armed with a long, curved dagger that drips blood. In this form, he wears only a tattered loin cloth, is hairless, and is covered with bleeding wounds caused by a slashing blade. His face is a skull flayed of its flesh and surrounded by a halo of blood. Bhaal is a vicious bully who enjoys killing people in gruesome ways. He’s brought to heel only by the combination of Bane and Myrkul. Bhaal’s cultists emulate their deity, carrying out gruesome murders to spread fear and horror. They are charming and disarming when they wish, but in combat their true, bloodthirsty nature comes to the fore. Bloodletters. All cultists of Bhaal learn to call upon their god’s power to leave their victims vulnerable to their long-bladed knives. When Bhaal’s magic works its power, stab wounds erupt in terrible gouts of blood. Seemingly minor wounds plunge deep into a victim’s body and cause terrible pain and bleeding. Killers from the Shadows. Bhaal’s followers are cunning murderers who kill to strike fear and thrive on sowing terror in the cities they inhabit. They can call upon their god’s power to blend into the shadows with ease, or even turn invisible for a crucial moment. Cult Ranks. Low-ranking cultists of Bhaal are called night blades, whom Bhaal blesses with darkvision and superior stealth. Reapers are the next rank up. They gain the ability to turn invisible and can use Bhaal’s magic to evade suspicion. The highest rank are the death’s heads, who can take on the skull-faced guise of their deity to terrify their prey. In combat, they intimidate foes by shrugging off the deadliest attacks with ease, showing that resisting Bhaal’s schemes is futile. Cultists of the Dead Three The Dead Three are evil adventurers named Bane, Bhaal, and Myrkul who long ago quested to become gods. They succeeded but grew even more ambitious. They tried to seize the Tablets of Fate from the overgod Ao and use them to rule over Faerûn and its gods. They failed and were slain during the Time of Troubles. Since then, a variety of contingency plans they had in place allowed them to be reborn. While the Sundering saw the other gods of the Forgotten Realms withdraw their direct influence from the world, the Dead Three remained behind in mortal form as quasi-divine beings. While their power has diminished, they remain a formidable trio and play a malevolent role in influencing events on Faerûn. Traits Aura of Murder. As long as the death’s head is not incapacitated, hostile creatures within 5 feet of it gain vulnerability to piercing damage unless they have resistance or immunity to such damage. Magic Resistance. The death’s head has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The death’s head uses Stunning Gaze and makes two dagger attacks. Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage. Stunning Gaze. The death’s head targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn. Reactions Unstoppable (3/Day). The death’s head reduces the damage it takes from an attack to 0.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28744
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Baldur's Gate - Descent into Avernus

