# Deathpriest Exarch of Orcus

**description**: Cultists of Orcus Of all of the demon lords of the Abyss, Orcus, the Demon Prince of Undeath, claims the largest amount of followers. It has therefore spawned scores of cults with diversified objectives, but all fall under three major doctrines. Necromantic Practitioners. The first one is mastery of necromancy, which is the most common type of cult of Orcus. Members of this type of cult are mages and priests who seek power over mortality, utilizing undead minions to further their goals and aspirations. Undead Master Race. The second doctrine is the support of undeath or power over the living. The majority of its members are undead themselves and seek to add more to its ranks while those who are alive use the remainder of their mortal lives to infiltrate and set up shop in major cities to establish a steady source of fresh bodies. Members of these types of cults are undead that require sustenance, knowledge, or the arts, such as vampires and liches, and other intelligent undead. Insane Nihilists. The third most common doctrine is the true goal of Orcus, which is to seek an end to all life in the cosmos, replacing the living with the undead who serve only him. Cult members of this type are mostly insane, deranged, and suicidal. Those that work in large groups carry out mass murders, attacking small villages and hamlets, while those that work in smaller groups or individually, operate like serial killers and hide in plain sight within bustling and thriving cities. Deathpriests. The majority of divine spellcasters who worship Orcus, no matter the doctrine, call themselves deathpriests. Blessed by the Prince of Undeath, they can cast necromantic spells that are normally only available to arcane spellcasters. Traits Aura of Death. The deathpriest exarch emanates a deathly aura that extends 30 feet in every direction from its space while it isn't incapacitated. The aura is blocked by total cover. While in the aura, the deathpriest exarch and any Undead ally are immune to the frightened condition and have resistance to radiant damage. Enemies suffer disadvantage on death saving throws while in the aura. Undying Soul (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If the deathpriest exarch is reduced to 0 hit points, it immediately makes a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. lf it succeeds, it is instead reduced to 1 hit point. Actions Multiattack. The deathpriest exarch makes two Bone Mace attacks or two Necrotic Bolt attacks. Bone Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) necrotic damage, and the target can’t regain hit points until the start of the high exarch's next turn. Spellcasting. The deathpriest casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: guidance, resistance, thaumaturgy 2/day each: animate dead (as an action), blindness/deafness, false life, vampiric touch 1/day each: Abi-Dalzim's horrid wilting, banishment, circle of death, cloudkill, contagion, finger of death Summon Undead (1/Day). The deathpriest exarch conjures Undead creatures no higher than CR 5 and whose combined average hit points don't exceed 150. These Undead magically rise up from the ground or otherwise form in unoccupied spaces within 60 feet of the deathpriest exarch and obey its commands until they are destroyed, until it dismisses them as an action, or 8 hours have passed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Neutral Evil or Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

