# Deepspawn Tyrant

**description**: The deepspawn is a devious and malevolent aberration native to both the Shadowfell and the Underdark. To the deepspawn, all living creatures are nothing more than resources to be consumed and replaced by the deepspawn's progeny. The deepspawn has an appearance born out of someone's worst nightmare. It has a spherical body with a width of 15 to 25 feet in diameter, covered with a rubbery, mottled grayish-brown hide. Protruding from its mass are six segmented arms, each reaching up to 20 feet long. Three of the arms are octopus-like tentacles, while the other three are serpent-like appendages that end in crocodilian jaws, each filled with multiple rows of jagged teeth. Spread around its body are dozens of retractable eye stalks that allow the deepspawn to see everything around it, though it chooses to extend only four to six eyestalks at a time while keeping the rest safely tucked in. Monster Factory. The deepspawn gets its name from its unexplained, natural ability to produce or spawn an exact duplicate of any living thing native to the Material Plane it has consumed. After a deepspawn devours a creature, a duplicate gestates for 4-7 days. Once the spawn is mature, the deepspawn can continue to carry it for no more than a month until it decides to expel the spawn through a special egress located under the deepspawn's body. The spawn is not a mere replication, as it retains the abilities, behaviors, skills, and memories of the original. The spawn is fiercely loyal to its creator and will still defend the deepspawn from its enemies to the death. Even the offspring of spawns become genetically predisposed to serving the deepspawn without question. The deepspawn sees its spawns as mere cannon fodder, serving to protect the deepspawn from harm and hunt and bring back food for it. If left unchecked, the deepspawn will continue to grow its army of spawns. Master Tactician. A deepspawn is shrewd enough not to put itself at unnecessary risk and will usually let its spawns fight in its stead. A deepspawn may have four to six of its brood protecting it at all times and even carries one more inside its body, ready to expel it if needed. The deepspawn will telepathically connect to its spawn and direct them in battle while keeping a safe distance. If forced to fight, the deepspawn will use its arms to maximum advantage, grabbing vulnerable targets with its constricting tentacles while attacking more dangerous ones with the rending bites of its jawed appendages. It is also not uncommon for a deepspawn to wield melee weapons and giant-sized shields with one of its tentacles. Opponents can attack and dismember the deepspawn's arms, but it only slows down the deepspawn as it can regrow a lost arm in an instant. Foes and Allies. A deepspawn is a solitary being in the sense that it does not actively keep the company of other creatures that isn't its spawn. Most intelligent races, even evil ones such as drow, duergar, and illithids, see the deepspawn as a dangerous threat, and take great lengths to destroy it and its offspring before they grow to overwhelming numbers. However, on rare occasions, a deepspawn may ally itself with others if it sees the partnership's benefits outweigh the risks and helps further the deepspawn's goals. A deepspawn once worked with a powerful evil cult while secretly replacing its members one by one with its spawn. Deepspawn Tyrant. This gigantic deepspawn is an ancient and powerful monster that has survived for centuries due to its cunning and deliberate actions, building its empire while remaining hidden from outside scrutiny. A Deepspawn's Lair A deepspawn's lair is often either a sprawling dungeon, a network of caverns, or the ruins of a small city, isolated from the rest of the world by miles of dismal and treacherous swamps, wild and gloomy forests, densely tangled jungles, or deep, winding Underdark tunnels. The lair will be surrounded by multiple rooms and mini-lairs, occupied and patrolled by the deepspawn's offspring. The deepspawn usually keeps itself hidden or half-buried in its large piles of amassed coins and treasure within its den, emerging only if needed. The challenge rating of a deepspawn increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the deepspawn takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the deepspawn can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The deepspawn casts hold monster . The deepspawn regrows a tentacle; or regains 35 hit points and ends blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting it. The deepspawn targets one spawn it can sense within 120 feet of it. The target has a flash of inspiration and gains advantage on one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw it makes before Initiative Count 20 on the next round. If the target doesn’t or can’t use this benefit in that time, the inspiration is lost. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary deepspawn’s lair is warped by the deepspawn’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The land within 6 miles of the lair takes twice as long as normal to traverse, since the vegetation grow thick and twisted, the swamps are thick with reeking mud, and sharp, rocky outcroppings choke pathways. Spawns in the lair have advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Spawns within 1 mile of the deepspawn’s lair serve as the deepspawn’s eyes and ears. If the deepspawn dies, these effects fade over the course of 1-10 days. Traits Appendages. The deepspawn can have up to six appendages. Three of the appendages are tentacles and the other three are serpent-like limbs. One of the tentacles is used to wield a weapon. Each appendage can be attacked (AC 16; 50 hit points; immunity to psychic damage). Destroying an appendage deals no damage to the deepspawn, which can regrow a replacement appendage by using its lair action. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the deepspawn fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The deepspawn has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The deepspawn makes three melee attacks: one with its Bite, one with its Tentacle, and one with its Battleaxe. It can replace two of its melee attacks with Tentacle Slam or Spawn, if available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 25 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 +7) piercing damage. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 25 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. If the target is Huge or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the deepspawn can automatically hit the target with its Tentacle attack. Battleaxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 25 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7) slashing damage. Tentacle Slam. The deepspawn slams creatures grappled by it into each other or a solid surface. Each creature must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of the deepspawn's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Spellcasting. The deepspawn casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At-will: detect magic, detect thoughts, water breathing 3/day: hold monster 1/day: psychic scream Bonus Actions Spawn (1/Day). The deepspawn produces a spawn, which is a random Huge or smaller creature that is has devoured. The spawn must be a beast, dragon, fey, giant, humanoid, monstrosity, or plant of CR 6 or less. The spawn is a direct copy of the creature devoured by the deepspawn, and retains learned abilities as well as some dim recollection of its former existence. Once the deepspawn has spawned a specific creature it has devoured, it cannot spawn that creature again. The spawn appears in the nearest space within 5 feet of the deepspawn and acts as its ally. The spawn acts one turn after the deepspawn on the same initiative count and fight until they're destroyed. The spawn is completely loyal and dedicated to the deepspawn and cannot be forced to attack the deepspawn by any means. Reactions Protective Spawn. When the deepspawn is hit by an attack, one spawn within 5 feet of the deepspawn must use its reaction to be hit by the attack instead. Legendary Actions The deepspawn can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The deepspawn regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The deepspawn moves up to half its speed. Bite. The deepspawn makes a Bite attack. Tentacle. The deepspawn makes a Tentacle attack. Bludgeon (Costs 2 Actions). The deepspawn uses Tentacle Slam. Hold Monster (Costs 2 Actions). The deepspawn casts Hold Monster .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

