# Deep One, Hybrid Priest

**description**: With enormous eyes, a wide mouth, and almost no chin, the deep ones are hideous, fishlike folk, often hunched and scaled when encountered in coastal villages. Elder Gods. In their fully grown form, the deep ones are an ocean-dwelling race that worships elder gods such as Father Dagon and Mother Hydra, and they dwell in deep water darkness. They’ve intermarried with coastal humans to create human-deep one hybrids. Coastal Raiders. The deep ones keep to themselves in isolated coastal villages and settlements in the ocean for long periods, and then turn suddenly, at the command of their patron gods, into strong, relentless raiders, seizing territory, slaves, and wealth all along the coasts. Some deep ones have even founded small kingdoms lasting generations in backwater reaches or distant chilled seas. Demand Sacrifices. They demand tolls from mariners frequently; those who do not leave tribute to them at certain islands or along certain straits find the fish escape their nets, or the storms shatter their hulls and drown their sailors. Over time, some seafaring nations have found it more profitable to ally themselves with the deep ones; this is the first step in their patient plans to dominate and rule. Gods of the Deep Ones The deep ones are faithful servants of horrific powers inimical to all life on land. Father Dagon is a god of fertility, fish, and the strength of the deep ocean, and is an evil lord of storm and waves. Mother Hydra is his consort, a goddess of immense strength and size, spawning entire schools of fish at once and mistress of the great kraken and toothsome krake spawn, who are her children and servitors. Both are keen on conquest, through a long program of forced interbreeding and eldritch meddling with human bloodlines. In addition, many deep ones follow Shar-Ngolyeth, a long-lost deity also referred to as That Which Lurks Beneath the Waves. This kraken and her krake spawn offspring are close allies to the deep ones, but are largely indifferent to Dagon and Hydra. Traits Amphibious: A deep one priest can breathe air or water with equal ease. Frenzied Rage: On its next turn after a deep one hybrid priest takes 10 or more damage from a single attack, it has advantage on its melee attacks and adds +4 to spell and claws damage. Innate Spellcasting: The deep one priest’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: sacred flame, shocking grasp 3/day each: inflict wounds, sanctuary, sleep 1/day each: ice storm, shatter Lightless Depths: A deep one hybrid priest is immune to the pressure effects of the deep ocean. Ocean Change: A deep one born to a human family resembles a human child, but transforms into an adult deep one between the ages of 16 and 30. Voice of the Deeps: A deep one priest may sway an audience of listeners with its rolling, droning speech, fascinating them for 5 minutes and making them dismiss or forget what they’ve seen recently unless they make a successful DC 13 Wisdom saving throw at the end of that period. If the saving throw succeeds, they remember whatever events the deep one sought to erase. Actions Claws: Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic evil
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

