# Deep One, Archimandrite

**description**: With enormous eyes, a wide mouth, and almost no chin, the deep ones are hideous, fishlike folk, often hunched and scaled when encountered in coastal villages. Elder Gods. In their fully grown form, the deep ones are an ocean-dwelling race that worships elder gods such as Father Dagon and Mother Hydra, and they dwell in deep water darkness. They’ve intermarried with coastal humans to create human-deep one hybrids. Coastal Raiders. The deep ones keep to themselves in isolated coastal villages and settlements in the ocean for long periods, and then turn suddenly, at the command of their patron gods, into strong, relentless raiders, seizing territory, slaves, and wealth all along the coasts. Some deep ones have even founded small kingdoms lasting generations in backwater reaches or distant chilled seas. Demand Sacrifices. They demand tolls from mariners frequently; those who do not leave tribute to them at certain islands or along certain straits find the fish escape their nets, or the storms shatter their hulls and drown their sailors. Over time, some seafaring nations have found it more profitable to ally themselves with the deep ones; this is the first step in their patient plans to dominate and rule. The deep ones are faithful servants of horrific powers inimical to all life on land. Father Dagon is a god of fertility, fish, and the strength of the deep ocean, and is an evil lord of storm and waves. Mother Hydra is his consort, a goddess of immense strength and size, spawning entire schools of fish at nce and mistress of the great kraken and toothsome krake spawn, who are her children and servitors. Both are keen on conquest, through a long program of forced interbreeding and eldritch meddling with human bloodlines. In addition, many deep ones follow Shar-Ngolyeth, a long-lost deity also referred to as That Which Lurks Beneath the Waves. This kraken and her krake spawn offspring are close allies to the deep ones, but are largely indifferent to Dagon and Hydra Traits Amphibious: A deep one can breathe air or water with equal ease. Frenzied Rage: On its next turn after a deep one archimandrite takes 10 or more damage from a single attack, it has advantage on its attacks, it adds +4 to damage, and it can make one extra unholy trident attack. Innate Spellcasting: The deep one archimandrite’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: bless, revivify, sacred flame, shocking grasp, suggestion 3/day each: charm person, lightning bolt, sanctuary, shatter 1/day each: chain lightning, cone of cold, ice storm Legendary Resistance (1/Day): If the deep one archimandrite fails a saving throw, it can count it as a success instead. Lightless Depths: A deep one hybrid priest is immune to the pressure effects of the deep ocean. Voice of the Archimandrite: With a ringing shout, the deep one archimandrite summons all deep ones within a mile to come to his aid. This is not a spell but a command that ocean creatures and deep ones heed willingly. Actions Multiattack: A deep one archimandrite makes one claw attack and 1 unholy trident attack. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage. Unholy Trident: Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 10 ft., One target. Hit : 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 13 (2d12) necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: humanoid
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic evil
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

