# Defaced Naiad Queen

**description**: Nymph Nymphs are well known as protectors of nature, but the defaced naiad nymphs who dwell in Thousandbreaths have been corrupted by the cruelty and bitterness of their queen, Nyrissa. While they carry a deep, almost debilitating shame at their role in her House at the Edge of Time, their deadly powers more than offset this disadvantage in most combats. While they remain beautiful, their empty eye sockets and despondent voices lay bare the tragic truth of their existence. Defaced Naiad Queen Traits Blinding Beauty. When a humanoid that can see the defaced nymph starts its turn within 30 feet of the nymph, the nymph can force it to make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw if the nymph is not incapacitated and can see the creature. If the save fails by 5 or more, the humanoid is blinded permanently. Otherwise, a humanoid that fails the saving throw is blinded until the start of its next turn, when it must repeat the saving throw on its next turn, becoming permanently blinded on a failure or ending the effect on a success. Unless surprised, a humanoid can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see the nymph until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at the nymph in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. Fey Weapons. The nymph’s weapon attacks are magical. When the nymph hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 13 (3d8) radiant damage (included in the attack). Magic Resistance. The nymph has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Shame. A defaced naiad queen has disadvantage on all rolls made against fey creatures, or any spellcaster who worships a deity or faith associated with nature or the First World. A character who understands the nature of this shame can attempt to forgive a defaced naiad queen (requiring an action by the forgiving creature) by speaking to it in a language she understands. The defaced naiad queen must attempt a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, the defaced naiad queen has disadvantage on all rolls until the end of her next turn. If she rolls a natural 1 on this saving throw, her eyes are restored and she cries out in relief an instant before she vanishes, returning to the First World to live out a new life far from Thousandbreaths. As she does so, a wave of emotional thanks and inspiration infuse the character who forgave the nymph, granting them advantage on Intelligence checks and saves against fear effects for 24 hours. Spellcasting. The nymph is a 7th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). The nymph has prepared the following druid spells: Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, guidance, produce flame 1st level (4 slots): animal friendship, cure wounds, entangle, fog cloud 2nd level (3 slots): enhance ability, flame blade, lesser restoration 3rd level (3 slots): call lightning, water breathing 4th level (1 slots): conjure woodland beings Actions Multiattack. The nymph makes three melee attacks with her torturous touch. Agonized Wail. The nymph emits an agonized wail that affects all creatures (except defaced naiad queens) with 120 feet. Targets must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or become frightened for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A successful save renders a creature immune to this defaced nymph’s agonized wail for 1 minute. Torturous Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (3d6+2) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) radiant damage. Stunning Glance. A nymph can turn the power of its primal displeasure on a single creature within 30 feet, which must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw each round at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

