# Delerium Dreg Bloated

**description**: Variant: Dreg Mutations A delerium dreg might have one of the following additional sets of traits: These do not change the dreg’s Challenge Rating. Aquatic (Deep One or “Fishfolk”) These mutated creatures have piscine faces, gills, fins, and fish scales. They are garbed in wet rags and carry spears and shields, and dwell deep within the sewers and underground caverns below the city. Amphibious. An aquatic dreg can breathe air and water. It has a swimming speed of 30 feet. Blindsight. An aquatic dreg gains blindsight with a radius of 30 feet. Bloated Death Burst. When a bloated delerium dreg dies, it explodes in a burst of corrupt offal. Each creature within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures who fail their saving throw by 5 or more gain one level of contamination. Bile Spray (Recharge 5-6). The bloated delerium dreg exhales a 15-foot cone of acid. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures who fail their saving throw by 5 or more gain one level of contamination. Chitinous Armoured Shell. A chitinous dreg has AC 18. Cyclopean Spectral Vision. A cyclopean dreg gains truesight 60 feet. It has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Mad Certainty. A cyclopean dreg is immune to the frightened condition and psychic damage. Psychic Shriek (Recharge 6). Creatures within 20 feet of the cyclopean dreg must succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or take 7 (2d6) psychic damage and be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Displaced Displacement. Attack rolls against a displaced dreg have disadvantage. If it is hit by an attack, this trait is disrupted until the end of its next turn. This trait is also disrupted while the displaced dreg is incapacitated or has a speed of 0. Teleport (Recharge 4–6). The displaced dreg magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Before or after teleporting, the dreg can make one melee attack. If this attack hits, it deals an extra 7 (2d6) psychic damage. Frenzied Reckless. At the start of its turn, a frenzied dreg can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the frenzied dreg hits with it. Lambent Illumination. A lambent delerium dreg sheds bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. Octarine Beam. The lambent dreg targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures who fail their saving throw by 5 or more gain one level of contamination. Leeching Bounding Leap. The leeching dreg’s long jump is up to 30 feet and its high jump is up to 15 feet, with or without a running start. Blood Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage, and the dreg attaches to the target. While attached, the dreg can’t attack. Instead, at the start of each of the dreg’s turns, the target takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. The attached dreg moves with the target whenever the target moves, requiring none of the dreg’s movement. The dreg can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its movement on its turn. A creature, including the target, can use its action to detach the dreg. Lurking Normal Semblance. The lurking dreg has advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks to pass itself off as a normal humanoid creature. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The dreg deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the dreg that isn’t incapacitated and the dreg doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Spined Spider Climb. The spined dreg has a climb speed equal to its walking speed. It can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Multiattack. The dreg makes three spike attacks. Spike. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d4 +1) piercing damage. Tentacled Amorphous. The dreg can move through a space as narrow as 6 inches wide without squeezing. Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 12). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the tentacled dreg can’t use its tentacles on another target.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 21300
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Dungeons of Drakkenheim

