# Demon, Echo

**description**: This vaguely humanoid creature has a bat-like face and large claws of twisted, rusting iron at the end of winged arms. Strangely soft rust-colored fur covers its body. Like an echo, some monsters can appear to come from everywhere at once. Liar's Destiny. Nearly every evil soul told lies during its mortal life--some petty, some bold, and some deadly. It is said when a truly despicable liar's soul passes to the Abyss, it sometimes takes the form of an echo demon. The tormented creature is surrounded by a constant echoing chatter that repeats every lie ever told, surrounding the demon with a cacophonous aura of noise that disorients and demoralizes foes. Acoustic Lairs. Echo demons are dangerous hunters that love nothing more than to prowl near empty halls in cavernous dwellings in search of creatures to torment and kill. They use their sound based powers to sow discord and confusion, picking off groups of adventurers one at a time. Their ability to appear anywhere within earshot allows them to launch attacks from surprising angles, often catching their prey off guard. Ironically, the claws of an echo demon deafen their victims, rendering them immune to the creature's potent sonic powers. Temporary Packs. Though they can see as well as other demons, echo demons often rely on their batlike echolocation to find their foes. Even more deadly than a single demon, a cluster of the monsters can use their ability to be seemingly everywhere at once to set up ambushes and vicious surrounding attacks. Thankfully, like most demons, echo demons rarely cooperate for long, finding the noise generated by their brethren to be the most grating sound they can imagine.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

