# Demonflesh Golem

**description**: The demonflesh golem is a nightmare to behold. Its head, limbs, and wings have been taken from various demons and are bolted, stitched, and grafted together to form a 10-foot tall abomination. It moves with an awkward gait but has supernatural strength that is fueled by fiendish magic. Malice, mayhem, and murderous thoughts churn from behind its bloodshot eyes. Crafted in Mephistar. The first demonflesh golem was created in the dreaded laboratories within the Citadel of Mephistar by skilled artificers and wizards whose souls were bound in service to Mephistopheles. The demonflesh golems were built from the remains of slain demons, brought in from the raging Blood War in Avernus. Instead of elemental spirits, souls were wrenched from captured prisoners and infused into the golems' constructed bodies. Unstable Weapon of War. Unleashed by its master, a demonflesh golem can tear foes with its powerful melee attacks, fly, and cast powerful spells. However, it is flawed and unpredictable construct. Perhaps due to the imperfections of the magic that binds it or the residual memories and chaotic tendencies of its bound demonic soul, a demonflesh golem will sometimes suddenly run amok when badly damaged. It breaks free of its master's control and vents its evil wrath on anything near it until fully repaired or until its shell of demonflesh is destroyed. It is said that one still wanders the war-torn battlefields of Avernus to this day. Because of this, only a few were ever produced. Somehow, some demonflesh golems still managed to find their way into the Material Plane, brought by a powerful devil or sent as a gift to a diabolical cult. Traits Berserk. Whenever the golem starts its turn with 90 hit points or fewer, roll a d6. On a 6, the golem goes berserk. On each of its turns while berserk, the golem attacks the nearest creature it can see. If no creature is near enough to move to and attack, the golem attacks an object, with preference for an object smaller than itself. Once the golem goes berserk, it continues to do so until it is destroyed or regains all its hit points. Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Unusual Nature. The golem doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The golem uses its Terrifying Gaze. It then makes three attacks: one with its Bite, one with its Claw, and one with its Pincer. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 32 (5d10 + 5) piercing damage and the target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be cursed for 1 minute. While cursed, a creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against the golem. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns ending the effect on itself on a success. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage. Pincer. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 19). Terrifying Gaze. The golem turns its magical gaze toward one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the golem for 1 minute. A frightened creature is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to golem's Terrifying Gaze for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The golem casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): 3/day each: cloudkill, darkness 1/day: Abi-Dalzim’s horrid wilting

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct (fiend)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

