# Demon Lord, Rhopalocerex

**description**: This beautiful creature has a humanoid frame covered with tiny, colorful, chitinous plates, and it sports large, rounded red wings with dark markings. Its face is an odd combination of human and insectoid, with heavy brows and large antennae that protrude from its forehead. Menace lurks behind its red, baleful eyes, and the spikes that jut from its shoulders, elbows, and knees speak of danger. Rhopalocerex, also known as the Purveyor of Deception and Master of Moths, is the father of death butterflies , moths, and all manner of other giant insects that are both beautiful and deadly. He lives in a layer of the Abyss that, like him, is beautiful at first sight, with vast vistas of flowers, trees, and a cloudless blue sky overhead; but it is equally deadly, with each element dripping with toxins, hiding some deadly surprise, or harboring hostile creatures. He lives at the top of a massive deciduous tree at the center of the plane. Thorny branches and leaves support the chambers of his stronghold above, while the bodies of his slain foes hang by nooses made of vines below. Death Cloaked in Beauty. Rhopalocerex surrounds himself with things whose beauty is part of their deceptiveness and deadliness, including poisonous plants, colorful yet deadly creatures, weapons disguised as ornaments, and similar objects. He likes to draw potential victims in with their natural curiosity or admiration before exposing the true vileness within him. Despite this, he maintains an extensive collection of truly beautiful art gathered from numerous civilizations and races that he has destroyed throughout the multiverse. He prefers works of art that display technical complexity and mastery of the art form. Master of Moths. Rhopalocerex is the lord of butterflies, moths, and other flying insects that take to the air under the cover of night and spread pestilence, poison, and filth. He is always followed by swarms of death butterflies, while other giant moths and butterflies cling to the walls and ceiling of his lair. The fluttering of their wings causes a constant pulsating sound to ripple through his lair. When he travels from his home plane, flying insects naturally flock to his location and follow him. Cults of Rhopalocerex. Like Rhopalocerex himself, his cults’ are obsessed with things that are both beautiful and deadly. When they perform ritual sacrifices in his name, they do so with expertly crafted blades and sweet-smelling but deadly poisons. The cult’s leaders are almost always charismatic individuals with silver tongues or pleasing countenances. Skilled alchemists and poisoners are highly valued by the cult and many alchemists find themselves, sometimes unintentionally, in the employ of the cult. Rhopalocerex’s Lair Rhopalocerex’s lair is located in an impossibly massive tree deep in the Abyss. It is made of sticky strands like those used to construct a chrysalis, and access to the tree is via a massive spiral staircase winding through the tree’s core. The tree houses a labyrinth of chambers filled with giant insects and their larvae and eggs. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Rhopalocerex takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Rhopalocerex can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: * Rhopalocerex magically calls a giant insect or a demon of challenge rating 5 or lower to aid him. The called creature acts as an ally of Rhopalocerex and obeys his mental commands. The creature remains for 1 hour or until Rhopalocerex uses this lair action again. * Rhopalocerex chooses up to two creatures he can see within 60 feet of him. Each creature must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or have disadvantage on its attack rolls until initiative count 20 on the following round, as numerous butterflies and moths fly up in its way. * Rhopalocerex chooses up to two creatures he can see that are within 15 feet of a wall of his lair. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 15) by the sticky fibers that make up the walls. Regional Effects The region containing Rhopalocerex’s lair is warped by his magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: * While within 1 mile of Rhopalocerex’s lair, creatures and plants with a challenge rating of 5 or lower are more toxic than normal. When these creatures deal poison damage, they deal an extra die of poison damage. If these creatures normally don’t deal poison damage, one of their attacks now deals an extra 2 (1d4) poison damage on a hit. * The area within 1 mile of Rhopalocerex’s lair is difficult terrain, as the tree’s roots gradually bulge and shift throughout the day, churning the soil, moving plants and rocks, and creating and filling sinkholes. * Thousands of insects swarm in the air and on the ground within 1 mile of the lair. Rhopalocerex can choose to see or hear through the senses of any insect in this area and can speak through it while doing so.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

