# Demon Lord, Alsikaya

**description**: Small volcanoes form, erupt, and subside on the skin of this large demon, surrounding her with the stench of sulfur and leaving ash in her wake. Unceasing babble whines from the gaping maw of Duchess Alsikaya, the Screeching Mother of Volcanoes. The nauseating stench of sulfur surrounds her, and red-hot lava flows down her body from volcanic cinder cones seething in her flesh. Eruptive Disposition. Duchess Alsikaya is antisocial and aggressive. Rather than grant—or even listen to—their requests, she prefers to dissolve petitioners in lava and poisonous fumes. Alsikaya’s legendary temper erupts with little provocation, especially when forced into diplomacy. Clever supplicants bring Alsikaya a bard, songbird, or fey musician as tribute before a negotiation. Their songs calm Alsikaya for a time. Volcanic Followers. Creatures with an affinity to volcanoes venerate the Screeching Mother, as do trolls , some gargoyles , and debased dwarves. Alsikaya regularly employs cherufes to do her bidding on the Material Plane, speaking her needs through pools of bubbling magma. The rumbling and volcanic activity brought about by Alsikaya’s words often results in cherufes receiving more tribute from the civilizations they subjugate, leaving even the most recalcitrant of cherufes willing to listen to her request. Alsikaya’s Lair Aliskaya’s lair is in a huge, frequently-blackened palace of turrets, heavy walls, and deep-dug barracks. Her palace sits at the heart of a plane of fire and smoke, where she rules with an explosive temper. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Alsikaya can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Alsikaya can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: * A spray of lava and rocks erupts from a point on the ground Alsikaya can see within 120 feet of her. Each creature within 10 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 17 (5d6) bludgeoning damage and 17 (5d6) fire damage. If the point is directly under a creature and that creature fails its saving throw, it is pushed up to 15 feet away from the eruption and knocked prone. * Choking sulfur forms a cloud in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point Alsikaya can see within 120 feet of her. The cloud spreads around corners and lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. Each creature that enters or starts its turn in the cloud must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, it takes 28 (8d6) poison damage and is poisoned until the end of its next turn. On a success, it takes half the damage and isn’t poisoned. * Alsikaya chooses a stone surface she can see within 120 feet of her and causes a shrieking likeness of her face to grow from it. Each creature within 30 feet of the image that can hear the screeching it emits must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or be afflicted with shortterm madness. Regional Effects The region containing Alsikaya’s lair is warped by her presence, which creates one or more of the following effects. Volcanic vents within 1 mile of her lair spew burning ash and toxic fumes into the environment. Food consumed within 3 miles of Alsikaya’s lair tastes of char and ash. Foodstuffs within 1 mile of her lair become inedible chunks of coal after 1d4 days of exposure to the environment. Mocking screeches and laughter echo through the minds of non-fiends near her lair. When a creature that isn’t a fiend takes a short or long rest within 1 mile of her lair, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or it doesn’t regain expended class features during that rest. If Alsikaya dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Duchess Alsikaya in Midgard Alsikaya’s lair is the Scarred Palace, which looms over the city of Ahtesseri, the City of Flowering Fire. From there, she rules over a plane of choking smoke, sinuous rivers of lava, and stony ground—Urgennos, the Luminous Hell of Fire and Sulfur. Fiery demons and devils of all kinds make their home on this plane, though Alsikaya’s palace is predominantly staffed with barbed devils and fire imps . For more information on the plane of Urgennos, see Warlock #16: Eleven Hells .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 28

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

