# Demonic Cambion of Baphomet

**description**: Cambion A cambion⁠ is the offspring of a fiend (usually a succubus⁠ or incubus) and a humanoid (usually a human). Cambions inherit aspects of both parents, but their horns, leathery wings, and sinewy tails are hallmarks of their otherworldly parentage. Demonic Cambions Cambions spawned by demon lords sometimes manifest different abilities⁠ from a typical cambion. Graz’zt is notable among demon lords for the many cambions he has spawned across the multiverse. Most famous among them is Iuz, who combined his father’s abyssal heritage and his mother’s peerless arcane tutelage to become a demigod. Signature Spells⁠ Cambions have the Innate Spellcasting trait. When customizing a demonic cambion⁠, you can replace spells⁠ in that trait with ones of the same level from the list of signature spells⁠ in the boon entry of the demonic parent. The cambion can use these spells⁠ once per day each. Signature Spells: Hunter’s mark (1st level), beast sense (2nd level), slow (3rd level) Special⁠ Traits A cambion descended from a demon can have the special⁠ traits conferred to that demon’s cultists, as described in the demon’s boon section. Baphomet grants his rank-and-file followers the Unerring Tracker trait, and cult leaders gain the Incite the Hunters trait. All of his devotees also gain the Labyrinthine Recall trait. Few demons consort with mortals, and those with the charm or desire to usually grant their cambion children the Fiendish Charm ability. Cultists of Baphomet and Orcus can also use foul rituals⁠ to infuse their master’s str⁠ength into a young or unborn child, yielding a cult champion⁠ who can wield special⁠ abilities; a cambion⁠ linked to Baphomet⁠ replaces Fiendish Charm with Horned One’s Call. Traits Fiendish Blessing. The AC of the cambion includes its Charisma bonus. Horned One’s Call. When the cambion targets⁠ only one creature with the attacks of its Multiattack, it can choose one ally it can see within 30 feet. That ally can use its reaction to make one melee attack against a target of its choice. Innate Spellcasting. The cambion’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). The cambion can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 3/day each: alter self, command, detect magic 1/day: plane shift (self only) Unerring Tracker. As a bonus action⁠, this creature magically creates a psychic link with one creature it can see. For the next hour, as a bonus action⁠ this creature learns the current distance and direction to the target if it is on the same plane of existence. The link ends if this creature is incapacitated or if it uses this ability on a different target. Incite the Hunters (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As an action⁠, this creature allows each ally within 30 feet of it that has the Unerring Tracker trait to make one weapon attack⁠ as a reaction against the target of that ally’s Unerring Tracker. Labyrinthine Recall. This creature can perfectly recall any path it has traveled. Actions Multiattack. The cambion makes two melee attacks or uses its Fire Ray twice. Spear (One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Ranged). Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Fire Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) fire damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any Evil Alignment
- Expansion: 4
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

