# Demon Lord, Alquam, Master of Night

**description**: Demon Lords Demonic powers swarm throughout the lower planes without number. Ancient beasts fade from mortal history, only to reappear eons later when their schemes draw them back to the Material Plane. Alquam, Demon Lord of Night Alquam, the Silent Black, Eyes in the Night, the Dark Hunter, is the demon lord of night and the creatures that prowl it. He has a particular affinity for owls; the stryx and owl harpies are both offshoots of his influence. Any shadow or dark corner at night might carry whispers to his ears. Alquam delights in music, though his favorite songs are said to grate mortal sanity to shreds. His huffed breath reeks of carrion. Alquam is composed mostly of darkness, with some features of a monstrous owl. He stands over 15 feet tall, and dark gray feathers with lighter speckles and bands cover his body. His head is that of a great owl with back-swept horns and massive, bulbous eyes that gleam yellow. His body is thin and such a deep black that it drinks in light. His feathery wings are long enough to wrap around his whole body. Alquam’s Lair Alquam’s lair is an immense tree in the center of a lightless layer of the Abyss. The tree is an ancient, dead snag with a massive, hollow chamber in the rotting trunk. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Alquam takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Alquam can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Alquam snuffs all light sources within the lair. Spells that create light are dispelled, mundane light sources are extinguished, and magical light sources are suppressed. Even light created by artifacts is reduced to dim light with half its normal radius of illumination. This lasts until initiative count 20 on the following round. Haunting, maddening music emanates from a point Alquam can see. Creatures within 50 feet of the origin that can hear the music must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are charmed, incapacitated, and have their speed reduced to 0 until they take damage or until initiative count 20 on the following round. Black tendrils writhe around up to three creatures Alquam can see within 100 feet. The creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained until initiative count 20 on the following round. Regional Effects The region containing Alquam’s lair is warped by the demon lord’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Within 1 mile of the lair all light sources except artifacts shed light to only half the usual radius. Owls and other nocturnal beasts become enraged and hostile within 5 miles of the lair, attacking intruders individually and in swarms. Within 1 mile of the lair, Alquam can cast his senses into any area of dim light or darkness as if using clairvoyance. If Alquam dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair return to normal over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Born of Darkness: Alquam can take the Hide action as a bonus action on each turn while it is in dim light or darkness, even if it is being observed. Innate Spellcasting: Alquam’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (save DC 18). It can innately cast the following spells without material components. At will: darkness, silence 3/day each: fear, invisibility, teleport 1/day: circle of death Keen Senses: Alquam has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Legendary Resistance (3/day): If Alquam fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance: Alquam has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons: Alquam’s weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack: Alquam makes one bite attack, one wing attack, and one talons attack. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 26 (4d10 + 4) piercing damage. Wing: Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, range 15 ft., One target. Hit : 17 (3d8 + 4 ) bludgeoning damage. On hit, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Talons: Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, range 10 ft., One target. Hit : 14 (3d6 + 4) slashing damage. On hit, the target is grappled and restrained, escape DC 17. Alquam can grapple one creature at a time if it is on the ground or two if it is flying. Talons grappling a creature can’t attack any other creature. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Attack: Alquam makes one attack. Move: Alquam flies half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Shroud (2 actions): Alquam radiates magical darkness in a 30‑foot radius. The darkness lasts until the start of Alquam’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic evil
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

