# Demon, Vetala

**description**: This shadowy figure has eyes like two cinders and loose, flowing hair that seems buffeted by a gentle breeze. Its chest cavity burns with hellish light, and its hands end in wicked claws. Vetala lurk in graveyards and battlefields, where they claim corpses to serve as minions. Capricious and vain, vetala demons occasionally make bargains to protect nearby villages, requiring villagers to provide regular sacrificial goods, while the demon keeps the corpses of any killed. These bargains state the vetala may claim the residents if the village fails to meet its obligations. Celebrators of the Necropolis. Vetala are strangely vain about their occupied graveyards, wanting the graveyards to be decorated with strings of flowers, treats, and votive offerings. They never claim these objects themselves, but they viciously attack anyone attempting to steal the items. This vanity extends to the demon's minions, which stop decaying while controlled and eventually appear less decayed. Corpse Stride. Once on its turn, the vetala can use 10 feet of its movement to step magically into one corpse or Undead within its reach and emerge from a second corpse or Undead within 60 feet of the first, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second corpse or Undead. Graveyard Walker. Difficult terrain composed of tombstones, grave dirt, corpses, or other objects or features common to graveyards and necropolises doesn't cost the vetala extra movement, and the vetala can move through graveyard objects and structures, such as sarcophaguses and mausoleums, as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Magic Resistance. The vetala has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Master of Undeath. A Humanoid killed by the vetala or an Undead under its control rises 1 minute later as a skeleton or zombie (the vetala's choice), unless the Humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. The vetala can have no more than 20 total skeletons and zombies under its control at one time. Shepherd of Death. When an Undead under the vetala's control hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. Actions Multiattack. The vetala makes two Claw attacks. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Raise Corpse. One Humanoid corpse the vetala can see within 30 feet of it rises as a skeleton or zombie (the vetala's choice) under the vetala's control. Bonus Actions Command Corpse. The vetala commands one Undead under its control that it can see to make one weapon attack as a reaction. If it does so, the Undead has advantage on the attack roll. Reactions Corpse Detonation. When an Undead under the vetala'a control is reduced to 0 hp, the vetala can force it to explode. Each creature that isn't an Undead or the vetala within 5 feet of the exploding Undead must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) bludgeoning (if zombie) or slashing (if skeleton) damage and 5 (2d4) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

