# Demonic Cambion of Orcus

**description**: Cambion A cambion⁠ is the offspring of a fiend (usually a succubus⁠ or incubus) and a humanoid (usually a human). Cambions inherit aspects of both parents, but their horns, leathery wings, and sinewy tails are hallmarks of their otherworldly parentage. Demonic Cambions Cambions spawned by demon lords sometimes manifest different abilities⁠ from a typical cambion. Graz’zt is notable among demon lords for the many cambions he has spawned across the multiverse. Most famous among them is Iuz, who combined his father’s abyssal heritage and his mother’s peerless arcane tutelage to become a demigod. Signature Spells⁠ Cambions have the Innate Spellcasting trait. When customizing a demonic cambion, you can replace spells⁠ in that trait with ones of the same level from the list of signature spells in the boon entry of the demonic parent. The cambion⁠ can use these spells⁠⁠ once per day each. Signature Spells: False life (1st level), ray of enfeeblement (2nd level), animate dead (3rd level) Special⁠ Traits⁠ A cambion descended from a demon can have the special⁠ traits conferred to that demon’s cultists, as described in the demon’s boon section. He grants rank-and-file cultists the Undying Soul trait, and his cult leaders gain the Aura of Death trait. Few demons consort with mortals, and those with the charm or desire to usually grant their cambion children the Fiendish Charm ability. Cultists of Baphomet and Orcus can also use foul rituals⁠ to infuse their master’s strength⁠ into a young or unborn child, yielding a cult champion⁠ who can wield specia⁠l abilities; a cambion⁠ linked to Orcus⁠ replaces Fiendish Charm with Spawn of the Grave. Traits Fiendish Blessing. The AC of the cambion includes its Charisma bonus. Innate Spellcasting. The cambion’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). The cambion can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 3/day each: alter self, command, detect magic 1/day: plane shift (self only) Spawn of the Grave. At the end of each of the cambion’s turns, each undead of its choice that it can see within 30 feet gains 10 temporary hit points, provided the cambion⁠ isn’t incapacitated. In addition, this cambion⁠ can use its Innate Spellcasting ability to cast animate dead three times per day. Undying Soul (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If this creature is reduced to 0 hit points, it immediately makes a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. If it succeeds, it is instead reduced to 1 hit point. Aura of Death. This creature emanates a deathly aura that extends 30 feet in every direction from its space while it isn’t incapacitated. The aura is blocked by total cover. While in the aura, the creature and any friendly undead are immune to the frightened condition and have resistance⁠ to radiant damage. Enemies suffer disadvantage on death saving throws while in the aura. Actions Multiattack. The cambion makes two melee attacks or uses its Fire Ray twice. Spear (One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Ranged). Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Fire Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) fire damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any Evil Alignment
- Expansion: 4
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

