# Demon Lord, Akyishigal

**description**: Demon Lords Demonic powers swarm throughout the lower planes without number. Ancient beasts fade from mortal history, only to reappear eons later when their schemes draw them back to the Material Plane. Akyishigal, Demon Lord of Cockroaches Of all the demons lurking in the Abyss, few are as vile and disgusting as Akyishigal, the lord of cockroaches. His filth-slicked mandibles clack ceaselessly for the flesh and souls of humanoids. Civilization’s Corruption. Although Akyishigal has sired an entire race in his image, he craves followers among humans, elves, and other races as a means of corrupting civilization, rotting it from within. Despite his repulsiveness, Akyishigal has followers among the urban dispossessed, the slum-dwelling poor, and those who lurk in lightless undercities. His shrines are tended in abandoned houses, tanneries and butcher yards, as well as in sewers and similar places. Filth Sacrifices. In these shrines, kidnapped victims find themselves submerged in filth up to their necks. While the demon lord’s cultists chant, sacramental roaches feast on the prisoner’s eyes and tongue. A victim who survives the rite is dumped back onto the streets. Persistent Cults. Akyishigal’s cults are almost as difficult to stamp out as real cockroach infestations. No matter how they are driven off or crushed, followers resurface among the teeming mobs of the downtrodden. Typical worshipers include evil humanoids, particularly kobolds and goblins as well as roachlings, minor demons, slaves, thralls, and shadow creatures of all stripes. Traits Innate Spellcasting: Akyishigal’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect evil and good, magic circle, teleport 3/day: dispel magic, insect plague (6th level), shapechange (vermin only) 1/day: contagion (always filth fever) Magic Resistance: Akyishigal has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Summon Demon (1/Day): Akyishigal can summon a chasme demon. The chasme appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of Akyishigal, acts as an ally of Akyishigal, and can’t summon other demons. It remains for 1 minute, until it or its summoner dies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action. Actions Multiattack: Akyishigal makes four claw attacks. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit :16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage. Cloak of Swarms (Recharge 5–6): Akyishigal can emit a cloud of flying, stinging insects from his mouth, his eyes, and the tears in his skin. This cloud surrounds him to a depth of 5 feet. When the cloak is active, all attacks against him are made with disadvantage, and Akyishigal can see in all directions (through the insects' eyes) Any living creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of Akyishigal takes 11 (2d10) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage, or half as much poison damage with a successful DC 17 Constitution saving throw. If the saving throw fails, the character is also poisoned for 1 hour. The swarm lasts for 5 rounds; it dissipates instantly if Akyishigal takes 30 or more damage from a nonweapon attack that he doesn’t have resistance to. While poisoned by the Cloak of Swarms, a character emits a stench of decomposition. All uncontrolled vermin attack that character on sight and in preference to other targets. Legendary Actions Can take 2 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Teleport: Akyishigal may teleport within line of sight. Skitter: Akyishigal combines an attack with a move up to 20 feet as if using a withdraw action, and is not subject to attacks of opportunity. Spellcasting (Costs 2 Actions): Akyishigal casts insect plague from its innate spellcasting ability.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic evil
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

