# Demogorgon

**description**: Prince of Demons, the Sibilant Beast, and Master of the Spiraling Depths, Demogorgon is the embodiment of chaos, confusion, and destruction, seeking to corrupt all that is good and undermine order in the multiverse, to see everything dragged howling into the infinite depths of the Abyss. The demon lord is a meld of different forms. He has a saurian lower body and clawed, webbed feet; suckered tentacles sprout from the shoulders of his great apelike torso, which is surmounted by two hideous simian heads named Aameul and Hathradiah. Their gaze brings bewilderment and confusion to any who confront them. Similarly, the spiraling Y sign of Demogorgon’s cult drives those who contemplate it for too long to delirium. As a result, all followers of the Prince of Demons break with reality sooner or later. Demogorgon’s Lair Demogorgon makes his lair in a palace called Abysm, found on a layer of the Abyss known as the Gaping Maw. Demogorgon’s lair is a place of confusion and duality; the portion of the palace that lies above water takes the form of two serpentine towers, each crowned by a skull-shaped minaret. There, Demogorgon’s heads contemplate the mysteries of the arcane while arguing about how best to obliterate their rivals. The bulk of this palace extends deep underwater, in chill and darkened caverns. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Demo­gorgon can take one of the following lair actions; he can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Darkness. Demogorgon casts the darkness spell four times, targeting different areas with the spell. Demogorgon doesn’t need to concentrate on the spells, which end on initiative count 20 of the next round. Illusory Duplicate. Demogorgon creates an illusory duplicate of himself, which appears in his space and lasts until initiative count 20 of the next round. On his turn, Demogorgon can move the illusory duplicate a distance equal to his walking speed (no action required). The first time a creature or an object interacts physically with Demogorgon (for example, by hitting him with an attack), there is a 50 percent chance that the illusory duplicate is affected, not Demogorgon, in which case the illusion disappears. Regional Effects The region containing Demogorgon’s lair is warped by his magic, creating one or more of the following effects: Beguiling Realm. Within 6 miles of the lair, all Charisma (Persuasion) and Charisma (Performance) checks have disadvantage, and all Charisma (Deception) and Charisma (Intimidation) checks have advantage. Frenzied Animals. Beasts within 1 mile of the lair become frenzied and violent—even creatures that are normally docile. Within that area, any ability check involving Animal Handling has disadvantage. Venomous Beasts. The area within 6 miles of the lair becomes overpopulated with poisonous snakes and other venomous Beasts. If Demogorgon dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Cultists of Demogorgon Demogorgon’s followers are typically lone killers driven by the whispering voice of their master. His most blessed followers gain the Two Minds of Chaos trait. Two Minds of Chaos. This creature has advantage on all Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws. Are two heads better than one? In Demogorgon’s case, the two double the horror and the chaos. —Mordenkainen Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Demogorgon fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Demogorgon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Two Heads. Demogorgon has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, deafened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. Actions Multiattack. Demogorgon makes two Tentacle attacks. He can replace one attack with a use of Gaze. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (3d12 + 9) force damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw, or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. Gaze. Demogorgon turns his magical gaze toward one creature he can see within 120 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw or suffer one of the following effects (choose one or roll a d6): 1–2: Beguiling Gaze. The target is stunned until the start of Demogorgon’s next turn or until Demogorgon is no longer within line of sight. 3–4: Confusing Gaze. The target suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The effect lasts until the start of Demogorgon’s next turn. Demogorgon doesn’t need to concentrate on the spell. 5–6: Hypnotic Gaze. The target is charmed by Demogorgon until the start of Demogorgon’s next turn. Demogorgon chooses how the charmed target uses its action, reaction, and movement. Spellcasting. Demogorgon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 23): At will: detect magic , major image 3/day each: dispel magic , fear , telekinesis 1/day each: feeblemind , project image Legendary Actions Demogorgon can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Demogorgon regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Gaze. Demogorgon uses Gaze and must use either Beguiling Gaze or Confusing Gaze. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) bludgeoning damage plus 11 (2d10) necrotic damage. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Demogorgon uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

