# Demon Lord, Chittr'k'k

**description**: Puffing on his faintly screaming pipe, the foul creature seemed almost contemplative as he disemboweled the humans, one by one. The air around him was thick with plague, with nibbling decay, and with the greasy shine of hideous dreams. The demon lord is an upright and partly-humanoid large, red-eyed rat. His grey-white fur is sometimes spattered with offal and flecked with blood; other times, he is groomed constantly by swarms of ordinary rats. Chittr'k'k's tail is tipped with a strange greenish fire. His front paws are long-fingered in the manner of rats, fully capable of holding and manipulating wands, scrolls, and other objects. He has long gold incisors, a short snout, and large ears (often ornamented with black or golden rings). He often smokes a magical pipe filled with mortal souls, drawing necrotic energy from this unhallowed vessel. Cunning and Malicious. Chittr'k'k finds human weakness amusing and delights in cruelty. While still given to unbridled destruction, he is sometimes more cunning than other demon lords. He is able to destroy a crop or a city with equal joy. He justifies this as "vengeance for my brethren"—for all rats are his worshippers and slaves. Devourer of Souls. Chittr'k'k's power comes in part from eating entire legions of mortal souls, and he dreams of attaining godhood through the devouring of demons. Rattok demons are said to be his creations. Lord of Shadows. Chittr'k'k keeps a vast network of spies in the mortal world. All red-eyed rats are his servants, chittering their knowledge of blood, sacrifice, and misery to their dark lord. Chittr'k'k uses this information to give his followers greater reach, to destroy granaries, to starve entire nations, and to spread disease and misery everywhere his long-fingered claws reach. The Cloud Pipes of Chittr'k'k Chittr'k'k has a pipe of cracked bone inlaid with golden glyphs, a pipe of glowing green jade that shines in the night, a pipe of black glass etched with blasphemous demonic triumphs, and (richest of all) a ruby pipe with mithral inlay in various disturbing patterns, a work of pure chaos artistry. All four of these pipes are associated with a particular gaseous magical effect: fog cloud (bone pipe), cloudkill (jade pipe), cloud of daggers (black glass pipe), and incendiary cloud (ruby pipe). A creature smoking the pipe can cast the associated spell as a bonus action 1/day. See Jade Cloud Pipe , Bone Cloud Pipe , Black Glass Cloud Pipe , Ruby Cloud Pipe Chittr'k'k's Lair Chittr'k'k's lair is a vast realm of tunnels and dank caverns with thousands, if not millions, of rats, ratfolk, rattok demons and other horrors, a noisy place of constant squeals and skittering filled with the rank smells of blood, offal, and sweat. It is filled with snarling creatures preying on one another in its narrow, bone-strewn passages. Its only illumination comes from unholy sigils and territorial markings made in multi-colored, pale luminous ink. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Chittr'k'k can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; he can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: A cloud of filth and the smell of rotting garbage fills the lair. Each creature within 60 feet of Chittr'k'k must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round. Rats swarm together into miniature boulders and drop from the ceiling, striking up to three creatures beneath them that Chittr'k'k can see within 120 feet of him. Chittr'k'k makes one ranged attack roll (+11 to hit) against each target. On a hit, the target takes 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and has disadvantage on concentration checks until initiative count 20 on the next round as the rats scamper down the target. A swarm of ghostly rattok demons fills a 20-foot-radius sphere at a point Chittr'k'k chooses within 120 feet. The swarm of ghosts spreads around corners and remains until Chittr'k'k dismisses it as an action, uses this lair action again, or dies. The swarm is lightly obscured, and its area is difficult terrain. A creature in the swarm when it appears or that ends its turn in the swarm must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 39 (6d12) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

