# Demon Lord, Camazotz

**description**: Demon Lords Demonic powers swarm throughout the lower planes without number. Ancient beasts fade from mortal history, only to reappear eons later when their schemes draw them back to the Material Plane. Camazotz, Demon Lord of Bats and Fire Camazotz looks like a hunched, lean man, covered in short black fur and with large membranous wings. His lips, pulled back in a sinister smile, reveal a mouth lined with crooked, needlelike teeth. His eyes glow red like burning embers of hate. Long arms end in cruel claws, and the air around him shimmers with waves of intense heat. Underworld Bat Lord. Camazotz is a being of pure savagery and hatred—a vile demon that holds sway over bats, vampires, and the lightless places of the underworld. In the deep recesses of the earth and the caves connecting to the surface, he waits restlessly until the slow creep of night engulfs the land, releasing him to feed and spread terror. New Fiery Mantle. Recently, Camazotz stole the fire aspect of the decrepit Huhueteotl, Lord of the Hearth and the Fire of Life. With his new prestige, Camazotz has attracted new followers, served notice to the gods of his ascendancy, and solidified his place in the Abyss as a power to be reckoned with. Cults of derro, goblins, and humans praise his name in the darkness. Emerging from Darkness. With his blindsense, Camazotz much prefers darkness to light, but with his new ability to play with fire and light, he grows increasingly confident in daylight. Traits Shapechanger: Camazotz can use his action to polymorph into a form that resembles a giant bat covered in smoldering ashes, or back into his true, winged humanoid form. His statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment he is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. Either form turns into a pile of greasy ash if destroyed. Echolocation: Camazotz can’t use his blindsight while deafened. Keen Hearing: Camazotz has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing. Gift of Vampirism: Camazotz may choose to raise those slain through Strength loss as vampires. They rise after 1d4 days, permanently dominated by Camazotz until such time as he sees fit to grant them free will. Camazotz may have no more than ten enslaved vampires at any given time. Heat Mantle: Camazotz is infused with the heart of volcanoes. A creature who strikes Camazotz with a nonreach weapon or with an unarmed strike takes 7 (2d6) fire damage automatically. Innate Spellcasting: Camazotz’ innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 22, +14 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: darkness, detect evil and good, dispel magic, plane shift, shapechange, telekinesis, teleport 3/day each: banishment, haste, symbol 1/day: earthquake Magic Resistance: Camazotz has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Summon Bats (1/Day): Camazotz can summon 4d6 giant bats or 2d6 swarms of bats. The bats appear immediately and serve the demon for up to 1 hour. Summon Demons (1/Day): Camazotz can summon 2d4 barlgura of a variety native to his cavernous realm: squat and blubbery creatures with clawed batwings for arms and a fly speed of 40 ft. Actions Multiattack: Camazotz makes one bite attack and two claw attacks. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +17 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 38 (8d6 + 10) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. On hit, the target must make a successful DC 22 Constitution saving throw or have its Strength score reduced by 1d4. A creature reduced to 0 Strength dies. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +17 to hit, range 10 ft., One target. Hit : 31 (6d6 + 10) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. On hit, the target must make a successful DC 22 Constitution saving throw or have its Strength score reduced by 1d4. A creature reduced to 0 Strength dies. Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6): Cone of unholy fire. Any creature caught in the area takes 55 (10d10) damage, half of which is fire, the other half is necrotic, or half as much damage with a successful DC 22 Dexterity saving throw. Legendary Actions Can take 2 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Detect: Camazotz makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions): Camazotz beats his wings, extinguishing mundane and magical light sources alike. Each creature within 10 feet must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) fire damage. Camazotz can then fly up to half his flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic evil
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

