# Derro, Hellforged

**description**: A cloud of noxious, green vapors wafting from cracks in this dwarf's ashen skin. One hand clutches a wicked blade, while the other is a monstrous, crab- like claw. The demented nature of the derro often leads them on wild journeys. Some journey farther than others, finding ways to slip into chaotic and evil planes of existence or jaunt into distant, alien realms. Most never return, but those that do are changed by their experiences. The darkness that lurks in the hearts of derro becomes a transformative power, causing perverse metamorphoses of the flesh and stoking an unholy lust for power. Grim Transfiguration. The longer a creature from the Material Plane navigates the darker planes of existence or the depths of the Void, the more likely it is to fall prey to insidious, magical corruption. The derro, already tormented creatures, are more vulnerable to such transformative corruption but also more likely to survive it. These derro are collectively known as “planewarped.” Walkers of the Abyss. Transformed by the primordial and erratic evil where demons are spawned, abysswalkers are the most erratic in form. They can sport a variety of corrupted shapes, and no two look exactly alike. They are often driven by mad ambitions to reveal the unseen and transcend mortality. They are found both serving and served by demons, often seeking no less than the toppling of universal order. Infernal Sojourners. On rare occasions, a derro travels to Hell. Rarer still, the derro's chaotic mind is enraptured with the plane's philosophy of order and dominion. The journey becomes a crucible in which the derro's mind is forged into a much more rigorous instrument, if no less insane for it. A hellforged derro still suffers insanity, but it is the insanity of a rigid mind. Such derro seek total control over every aspect of what goes on around them, an impossible task that these derro take to with fervent vigor. Demented Void Travelers . Some far-wandering derro seek out the darkness of the Void, traveling deep into the black reaches between the stars and returning alive but not unchanged. Having seen the awesome terror that exists there, a voidwarped derro has opened its heart to embrace this vision. Voidwarped derro frequently act as prophets or harbingers for the elder things that lurk in the Void, paving the way for their coming and the eventual unraveling of all things. Floating in a nimbus of writhing shadow, the voidwarped speaks its revelations to any within earshot, often with devastating effects on the mortal psyche. Insanity. The hellforged has advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Hellfire Weapons. The hellforged's weapon attacks are magical. When the hellforged hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d6 fire damage (included in the attack). Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the hellforged has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The hellforged makes three Battleaxe or Hurl Hellfire attacks. Battleaxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Hurl Hellfire. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) fire damage. If the target is a creature or a flammable object, it ignites. Until a creature takes an action to douse the fire, the target takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. Reactions Voice of Authority (Recharge 5-6). When a creature hits the hellforged with an attack, the hellforged shrieks a one-word command. The attacker must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or carry out this command on its next turn. This reaction works like the command spell, except the attacker doesn't have to understand the hellforged's language. The hellforged must see the attacker and be able to speak to use this reaction.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Derro)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

