# Derro, Voidwarped

**description**: A cloud of noxious, green vapors wafting from cracks in this dwarf's ashen skin. One hand clutches a wicked blade, while the other is a monstrous, crab- like claw. The demented nature of the derro often leads them on wild journeys. Some journey farther than others, finding ways to slip into chaotic and evil planes of existence or jaunt into distant, alien realms. Most never return, but those that do are changed by their experiences. The darkness that lurks in the hearts of derro becomes a transformative power, causing perverse metamorphoses of the flesh and stoking an unholy lust for power. Grim Transfiguration. The longer a creature from the Material Plane navigates the darker planes of existence or the depths of the Void, the more likely it is to fall prey to insidious, magical corruption. The derro, already tormented creatures, are more vulnerable to such transformative corruption but also more likely to survive it. These derro are collectively known as “planewarped.” Walkers of the Abyss. Transformed by the primordial and erratic evil where demons are spawned, abysswalkers are the most erratic in form. They can sport a variety of corrupted shapes, and no two look exactly alike. They are often driven by mad ambitions to reveal the unseen and transcend mortality. They are found both serving and served by demons, often seeking no less than the toppling of universal order. Infernal Sojourners. On rare occasions, a derro travels to Hell. Rarer still, the derro's chaotic mind is enraptured with the plane's philosophy of order and dominion. The journey becomes a crucible in which the derro's mind is forged into a much more rigorous instrument, if no less insane for it. A hellforged derro still suffers insanity, but it is the insanity of a rigid mind. Such derro seek total control over every aspect of what goes on around them, an impossible task that these derro take to with fervent vigor. Demented Void Travelers . Some far-wandering derro seek out the darkness of the Void, traveling deep into the black reaches between the stars and returning alive but not unchanged. Having seen the awesome terror that exists there, a voidwarped derro has opened its heart to embrace this vision. Voidwarped derro frequently act as prophets or harbingers for the elder things that lurk in the Void, paving the way for their coming and the eventual unraveling of all things. Floating in a nimbus of writhing shadow, the voidwarped speaks its revelations to any within earshot, often with devastating effects on the mortal psyche. Insanity. The voidwarped has advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Mortal Void Traveler. The voidwarped doesn't require air or ambient pressure. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the voidwarped has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Void-Touched Weapons. The voidwarped's weapon attacks are magical. When the voidwarped hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 1d6 cold damage and 1d6 force damage (included in the attack). Actions Multiattack. The voidwarped makes two Shortsword attacks and one Void Tendril attack. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) cold damage and 3 (1d6) force damage. Void Tendril. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) cold damage and 3 (1d6) force damage. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or its hp maximum is reduced by the amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hp maximum to 0. Void Speech Rant (Recharge 5-6). The voidwarped spews a tirade of Void Speech. Each creature within 40 feet of it that can hear the tirade must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 27 (5d10) psychic damage and is incapacitated until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't incapacitated.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Derro)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

