# Desert Giant Shaman

**description**: Desert giants appear as 12 to 13 feet tall giants with swarthy skin that range from burgundy, maroon, and crimson. They are distantly related to both fire giants and dao genies. Desert giants typically wear brown-colored bishts or cloaks over their armor to help camouflage their presence while out in the sandy wastes. Despite their size, they are surprisingly nimble. Warrior Nomads. Desert giants live as nomads and survive by hunting and raiding settlements. While desert giants can be very cruel, they respect their elders and those who have shown honor in battle. Desert giant leaders are usually the mightiest and most experienced in warfare. Their customs are rigid, and conflicts are usually resolved through combat and often to the death. Desert giants typically worship earth or fire elemental deities. Sand Strikers. Desert giants usually arm themselves with two-handed scimitars, but some prefer to use sabers (longswords) or spears, especially when mounted. They have the magical ability to control and manipulate sand within their immediate vicinity. They do this to build temporary sand structures and walls to hide their camp or cover themselves in preparation for an ambush. In combat, they use the sand to blind their foes. Hired Mercenaries. Desert giants are very suspicious of other races and prefer the company of their kin. They also commonly work as mercenaries under the employ of evil genies, fire giants, and lamias. They capture and raise desert drakes and keep them as guards. They hate and avoid blue dragons, and try to kill them while still young, as adult and ancient ones tend to eat or subjugate them. Giant-Kin Giant-kin are the smaller, distantly-related cousins of the true giants. Most look like their brutish kin but some resemble large versions of the common humanoid races. Despite their variations, giant-kin unmistakably embody the essence of true giants, holding a pervasive belief in the innate weakness and inferiority of humanoids. Giant-kin usually form small clans or tribes. They are often encountered working as mercenaries or hired guards. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Spear attacks or uses Heat Lightning twice. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. and range 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage, or 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack. Heat Lightning. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) fire damage plus 9 (2d8) lightning damage and the target can't use reactions until the end of the giant's next turn. Haboob (1/Day). The giant conjures an intense electrical sand storm that engulfs an area within 240 feet of it. The area can be up to 60 feet long, up to 20 feet wide, and up to 20 feet tall. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (4d8) bludgeoning damage and 18 (4d8) lightning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. The haboob vanishes at the end of the turn. Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: druidcraft, guidance, mending 3/day each: cure wounds, hold person (2 targets), spike growth 1/day each: hallucinatory terrain, spirit guardians, wall of stone Bonus Actions Sand Strike (Recharge 5–6). While the giant is standing on sandy terrain, each creature of the giant's choice within 20 feet of the giant must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature has advantage on saving throws made against any giant's Sand Strike for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

