# Desert Giant Chieftain

**description**: Desert giants appear as 12 to 13 feet tall giants with swarthy skin that range from burgundy, maroon, and crimson. They are distantly related to both fire giants and dao genies. Desert giants typically wear brown-colored bishts or cloaks over their armor to help camouflage their presence while out in the sandy wastes. Despite their size, they are surprisingly nimble. Warrior Nomads. Desert giants live as nomads and survive by hunting and raiding settlements. While desert giants can be very cruel, they respect their elders and those who have shown honor in battle. Desert giant leaders are usually the mightiest and most experienced in warfare. Their customs are rigid, and conflicts are usually resolved through combat and often to the death. Desert giants typically worship earth or fire elemental deities. Sand Strikers. Desert giants usually arm themselves with two-handed scimitars, but some prefer to use sabers (longswords) or spears, especially when mounted. They have the magical ability to control and manipulate sand within their immediate vicinity. They do this to build temporary sand structures and walls to hide their camp or cover themselves in preparation for an ambush. In combat, they use the sand to blind their foes. Hired Mercenaries. Desert giants are very suspicious of other races and prefer the company of their kin. They also commonly work as mercenaries under the employ of evil genies, fire giants, and lamias. They capture and raise desert drakes and keep them as guards. They hate and avoid blue dragons, and try to kill them while still young, as adult and ancient ones tend to eat or subjugate them. Giant-Kin Giant-kin are the smaller, distantly-related cousins of the true giants. Most look like their brutish kin but some resemble large versions of the common humanoid races. Despite their variations, giant-kin unmistakably embody the essence of true giants, holding a pervasive belief in the innate weakness and inferiority of humanoids. Giant-kin usually form small clans or tribes. They are often encountered working as mercenaries or hired guards. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Greatsword attacks. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Yardang (1/Day). The giant targets up to three creatures standing on the ground it can see within 60 feet of it. Sand instantly billows around each target and encases them before hardening into a yardang. Each creature must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is trapped within a yardang for 1 minute. While trapped, a creature is restrained and can't breathe. As an action, a restrained target can make a DC 14 Strength check with disadvantage on the roll, breaking the yardang on a success. The yardang can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 14; hp 40; immunity to poison and psychic damage). Bonus Actions Sand Strike (Recharge 5–6). While the giant is standing on sandy terrain, each creature of the giant's choice within 20 feet of the giant must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature has advantage on saving throws made against any giant's Sand Strike for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The giant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The giant moves up to its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The giant makes a melee or ranged attack. Whirling Blade (Costs 3 Actions). The giant moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and targets each creature within 5 feet of it during its movement. Each target must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage and is blinded until the end of the giant's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

