# Devil, Ink

**description**: This small devil wears a small red hat. A wicked grin flashes black teeth, and the creature nervously wrings its hands, baring long, needle-like claws. Ink devils have small, pursed mouths and long, thin, bony fingers. Their nails resemble quills. Their heads are often bald or shaved in a monastic tonsure, and they have two small horns, no larger than an acorn. Their skin tends toward walnut, indigo, and black tones, though the eldest are as pale as parchment. They often wear robes and carry scroll cases, and many consider the Baron Totivillus the greatest of arch-devils. Cowards at Heart. Ink devils are talkers and cowards. They prefer chatting, whining, and pleading to any form of combat. When they are forced to fight, they prefer to hide behind other devils. They force lesser devils, like lemures, to fight for them while they use teleportation, invisibility, and their ability to disrupt the concentration of spellcasters to harry the opposition. False Gifts. They often give strangers false gifts, like letters of credit, charters, or scholarly papers inscribed with a glyph of warding to start combat. Bibliophiles and Bookworms. Ink devils live in libraries and scriptoria in the hells and related planes. Their speed and keen vision make them excellent accountants, record keepers, translators, and note takers. They cannot be trusted, and they delight in altering documents for their own amusement or in their master’s service. Traits Devil's Sight: Magical darkness doesn’t impede the devil’s darkvision. Magic Resistance: The devil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Innate Spellcasting: The ink devil’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). The ink devil can cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect magic, illusory script, invisibility, teleportation (self plus 50 lb. of objects only) 1/day each: glyph of warding, planar ally (1d4 + 1 lemures 40%, or 1 ink devil 25%) Actions Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, range 5 ft., single target. Hit : 14 (3d6 + 4) slashing damage. Disrupt Concentration: Their sharp, shrill tongues and sharper claws make ink devils more distracting than their own combat prowess might indicate. As a bonus action, an ink devil can force a single foe within 30 feet of the ink devil to make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or lose concentration until the beginning of the target’s next turn. Corrupt Scroll: An ink devil can corrupt the magic within any scroll by touch. Any such corrupted scroll requires a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw to use successfully. If the check fails, the scroll’s spell affects the caster if it is an offensive spell, or it affects the nearest devil if it is a beneficial spell. Devil's Mark: Ink devils can flick ink from their fingertips at a single target within 15 feet of the devil. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 13), or the affected creature gains a devil’s mark—a black, red, or purple tattoo in the shape of an archduke’s personal seal (most often Mammon or Totivillus but sometimes Arbeyach, Asmodeus, Beelzebub, Dispater, or others). All devils have advantage on spell attacks made against the devil-marked creature, and the creature has disadvantage on saving throws made against spells and abilities used by devils. The mark can be removed only by a remove curse spell or comparable magic. In addition, the mark detects as faintly evil and often shifts its position on the body. Paladins, witchfinders, and some clerics may consider such a mark proof that a creature has made a pact with a devil.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful evil
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

