# Devil, Infernal Tutor

**description**: This hunched, wizened creature's sallow skin is stretched tightly over its bones and covered in infernal script. Cunning and cruel eyes shine a little too brightly beneath a broad forehead adorned with small horns. These despicable fiends pose as teachers and mentors, sometimes killing a known sage and taking their place. They willingly dole out wisdom to the worthy that seek their guidance, yet all the while, they lure their pupils into corruption. While all devils trade in souls, infernal tutors gain their greatest satisfaction in corrupting mortals who are seeking self-improvement. They revel in leading their ardent students into infernal mindsets under the guise of high-minded philosophies promoting the general good. Mysterious Ascetics . Infernal tutors teach in remote and inaccessible places, such as forbidding mountaintops or atop lone mesas rising above the wilderness. They welcome those mortals willing to brave the distance in search of knowledge and wisdom, especially since such seekers leave behind their family, friends, and any others who could counteract the fiend's insidious teachings. Calculating and Patient. Infernal tutors implement their schemes with vast and deliberate patience. Those that question or rebel against their teachings are simply released from their tutelage. The fiend often does so with a sad shake of the head, lamenting that the student simply is not ready for true understanding. Meanwhile, they mold their most ardent pupils into tools to spread tyranny under the guise of the greater good, the better to corrupt others when they return to civilization. Age Brings Power. All infernal tutors are insidious, lurking evils. They craft and shape their plans carefully, knowing their power grows every time one of their students spreads the fiend's twisted teachings abroad in the world. The common, “lesser” fiends of this type are terrible enough. However, those that manage to spread corruption over centuries, refining their plots and gaining power every time one of those corrupted souls is damned, become even greater evils. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the infernal tutor's darkvision. Magic Resistance. The infernal tutor has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Phrenic Weapons. The infernal tutor's weapon attacks are magical. When the tutor hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4d6 psychic damage (included in the attack). Weaken Resolve. The infernal tutor's speech is laced with subtle enchantments that make its words seem logical or profound, regardless of the actual words used. It has advantage on Charisma (Deception) and Charisma (Persuasion) checks against Humanoids. In addition, if the infernal tutor spends at least 1 minute conversing with a Humanoid, that creature has disadvantage on saving throws against the infernal tutor's Fiendish Indoctrination and against enchantment spells the tutor casts. Actions Multiattack. The infernal tutor makes three Claw or Tutor's Baton attacks, or it makes one Claw attack and two Tutor's Baton attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting. Claw (True Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) psychic damage. Tutor's Baton. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6) psychic damage. Instead of dealing psychic damage, the infernal tutor can cause the target to become incapacitated until the end of the target's next turn. Fiendish Indoctrination (Recharge 5-6). The infernal tutor speaks fiendish ideals couched in persuasive, scholarly language. Each creature within 30 feet of the tutor must make a DC 18 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 45 (13d6) psychic damage and is charmed for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't charmed. A charmed creature isn't under the tutor's control, but it regards the tutor as a trusted friend, taking the tutor's requests or actions in the most favorable way it can. A charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is charmed for 1 day instead. Such a creature can repeat the saving throw only when it suffers harm or receives a suicidal command, ending the effect on a success. Spellcasting. The infernal tutor casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: bane , calm emotions , command , detect thoughts , suggestion 3/day each: bestow curse , compulsion , enthrall 1/day each: geas , modify memory Bonus Actions Change Shape. The infernal tutor magically transforms into a Small or Medium Humanoid, or back into its true, fiendish form. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Reactions Strength of Character. When the infernal tutor succeeds on a saving throw, the tutor responds with a scathing magical insult, if the source of the effect is a creature within 60 feet of the tutor. That creature must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or take 14 (4d6) psychic damage and have disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes against a spell cast by the infernal tutor.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

