# Devil, Arch-Devil, Belphegor

**description**: A whirring clatter of gears, bone, and tormented cries speeds across the skies of hell. Once, a lesser-devil named Belphegor ruled a spit of Hell known as the Plane of Openings. There, the devil oversaw great chasms that appeared each morning in the thick blood-clay; chasms filled daily with the excrement of the denizens of Hell. Belphegor and his minions sealed the chasms at day's end, and thusly were the bodily wastes of Hell returned to its unhallowed ground. Though he did as was commanded by the Lords of Hell, the stooped and wretched devil desired power and rank. He began to conceive of ways to reduce the labor of his task. He built a great contraption from the bones of the damned to perform his toilsome task in his stead and named it Prime. Belphegor hoped it would impress his master, who might deliver him from his menial work. Before he could share his invention, Belphegor became entranced by Prime. Lost in its gears of bone, the devil soon forgot the original purpose of the invention. He continued building intricate parts that seemed like strokes of genius but, in reality, performed no useful function. The Plane of Openings overran with the bilious excrement of the planes of Hell, and soon the stench sank to the lowest pits, befouling the nose of his master. When he arrived to rend the delinquent devil into pieces as punishment for abandoning the task, the Arch-Devil saw Belphegor's machine and smiled wickedly. Through the busywork of self-indulgent invention, Belphegor had managed to produce nothing on a never-before seen scale. Belphegor was immediately made a lieutenant and given domain over tempting brilliant mortals into fruitless ingenuity and invention. He rides upon Prime as his infernal mount, its endless complexities whirring as he passes. In Hell, Belphegor is a massive, bent humanoid. His face is covered in small, horned protrusions, and his eyes are two endless spiralling voids. In combat, he wields a great flail whose head is held in place by a chain of damned humanoids. The sides of Prime are decorated with the useless inventions of mortals he has corrupted. On the Material Plane, he appears as a wizened, old man who carries a pack filled with tinkerer's tools. His symbol is a laborer's hammer with a shattered head. Corruptor of Invention. Belphegor spreads Hell's corruption by tempting mortal ingenuity into endless complexities and fruitless obsessions. A brilliant alchemist attempting to concoct an epic healing draught might be tempted to pursue increasingly rare ingredients--until the draught is forgotten, and the hunt for ingredients takes precedence. An engineer building a massive and glorious span might find herself suddenly obsessed with cladding the bridge in an overly complex way; construction grinds to a halt as the builders iterate endlessly. Wherever ingenuity threatens to make progress, there is Belphegor, steering it towards wasteful tinkering. Wasted Gifts. Belphegor delights in good-hearted mortals ignoring their own gifts and pursuing goals that are beneath their abilities. He revels in social, religious, and political systems that prevent beings from fulfilling their destinies. Self-pitying paralysis is one of the devil's strongest powers; Belphegor longs to watch a hero wallow in drink and doubt while their town is pillaged around them.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

