# Devil, Devilflame Juggler

**description**: A four-armed devil with hands for feet and a grinning face for a torso leaps to and fro, juggling balls of fire. Insolent bards who die and end up in Hell become twisted caricatures of themselves called devilflame jugglers. Large but very nimble, these fiends bounce around on six hands attached to limbs that extend from a grinning, diabolical visage in its torso. From this torso, the creature belches orbs of hellfire fueled by the souls of entertainers who sold theirs for notoriety. Bound by Absurd Law. Punished by eons-old infernal contracts, devilflame jugglers are victims in their own bodies, constantly on fire inside and compelled by contract to leap about for others' amusement. To cease moving spells disaster, as more powerful, and sadistic, devils descend upon it to force it back into capering and entertaining. Gifts Among Princes. Devilflame jugglers serve as entertainers to demons, other devils, or efreeti on the Plane of Fire, and popular ones are given as gifts. While performing, they are often ordered to distract their hosts to free up other devilish spies for diabolical plots. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the juggler's darkvision. Dizzying Movement. If the juggler moves at least 15 feet on a turn, each creature that can see the movement must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of its next turn. Magic Resistance. The juggler has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Standing Leap. The juggler's long jump is up to 30 feet and its high jump is up to 15 feet, with or without a running start. Actions Multiattack. The juggler makes three Deft Touch or Devilflame Sphere attacks. If the juggler hits one creature with two Deft Touch or two Devilflame Sphere attacks, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened until the end of its next turn. Deft Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Instead of dealing damage, the juggler can steal one item the target is wearing or carrying, provided the item weighs no more than 15 pounds and isn't wrapped around or firmly attached to the target, such as a shirt or belt. Devilflame Sphere. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d8 + 4) fire damage. Fiery Flourish (Recharge 5-6). The juggler tosses a ball of hellfire at a creature it can see within 90 feet of it. The target must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The ball then splits and bounces to up to four creatures within 30 feet of the target. Each of these creatures must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. This fire ignites flammable objects that aren't being worn or carried and that are between each of the targets. Bonus Actions Nimble Leap. The juggler takes the Dash or Disengage action. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. The juggler halves the damage from an attack that hits it. The juggler must be able to see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

