# Devil Shrike

**description**: Named for the creature known as the "butcher bird", devil shrikes are believed to have been bred from their namesake by crossing fiendish blood with a dire shrike, producing this huge, abhorrent, and beautifully terrifying fiend. Devil shrikes make their homes in caverns and dark forest glens where they transform their surroundings into a spiked lair commonly referred to as an "abattoir". Like their namesake, devil shrikes stick their prey on the spikes that grow in their lair to save the prey for later, and to more easily rip them apart for consumption. Appearance. Devil shrikes also look a lot like their namesake, except much, much larger, and different in color. Their bodies are covered in iridescent green feathers, and their feathered wings are purple at their base, fading into a cobalt blue at the tips. Their hooked beaks end in a terrifyingly sharp, crimson point, and their talons are large enough to carry off even a troll with ease. Tactics. Devil shrikes prefer to fight in their lair, or take their prey by surprise - hitting them with their Paralyzing Beak before carrying them back to its lair to spit them and finish them off. Creatures that approach the devil shrike's lair may find themselves drawn in by its Luring Call. The devil shrike only leaves its lair to hunt if no prey has come by for a few days. In combat, the devil shrike makes use of its flight and Rapid Flight to set up a Paralyzing Beak on the back line of its foes. After paralyzing a creature, it flies up into the air, waits for the turn before its next turn, then uses Rapid Flight to descend in preparation for Spike, repeating this process as long as possible. If it has been forced to use both of its Legendary Toughnesses, it flees before its wings can be Injured. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the devil shrike takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the devil shrike can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Spit. A growth of black, glossy material sprouts from the ground beneath a creature hostile to the devil shrike. That creature must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) piercing damage and gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, "Spitted". While Injured in this way, a creature is grappled by the thing it is spitted on, and loses 3 (1d6) hit points at the start of each of its turns. Another creature can lift the Injured creature off of the spike with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. The injury can then be treated using a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check. The Spitted creature can use its action to make a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check with disadvantage to climb off the spike. Screech. The devil shrike lets out a loud screech, deafening and disorienting other creatures. Each creature in a 60-foot radius of the devil shrike that can hear it must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 5 (2d4) thunder damage and be deafened until the end of their next turn. While deafened in this way, a creature may take a reaction or a bonus action during a round, but not both. If a creature had previously used its reaction since the end of its last turn, it may still take a bonus action on its turn. Luring Cry. The devil shrike mimics the call of a creature's ally or loved one, inviting them closer. Each creature that can hear the devil shrike must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the devil shrike until the end of its next turn. On its turn, it must use its action to Dash, moving as close to the devil shrike as possible, and granting the devil shrike advantage on its next attack roll made against them. Traits Fiendish Resilience. The devil shrike has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, frightened, poisoned, or sickened. Fiendish Perception. The devil shrike has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks relying on sight, and on saving throws against illusions. Spitted Feast. The devil shrike has advantage on attack rolls made against creatures with the Spitted Injury. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If devil shrike fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (2/Day). When the devil shrike gains an Injury, it can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until it finishes a long rest. Actions Multiattack. The devil shrike uses Paralyzing Beak and Keening Shriek. Paralyzing Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 feet, one target. Hit: 15 (2d8+5) bludgeoning damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed. A paralyzed creature can make a new saving throw to end this effect on itself at the end of each of its turns. Keening Shriek. Each creature that can hear the devil shrike that is within 30 feet of it must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 3 (1d6) psychic damage. Spike. The devil shrike grabs a paralyzed creature and spikes it on a nearby object or piece of terrain, saving it for later consumption. That creature takes 18 (4d8) piercing damage, and gains a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, "Spitted". While Injured in this way, a creature is grappled by the thing it is spitted on, and loses 3 (1d6) hit points at the start of each of its turns. The Injury can be treated as normal if another creature lifts the Injured creature off of the spike with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. The Spitted creature can use its action to make a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check with disadvantage to climb off the spike. Each creature that can see the target must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the devil shrike for 1 minute. A frightened creature can attempt a new saving throw at the end of each of its turns to end this effect. This ability can only be used if there is a spike available for use. Legendary Actions The devil shrike can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The devil shrike regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Unnerving Cry (Costs 2 Actions). Each creature within 300 feet of the devil shrike that is hostile to it and can hear it must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the devil shrike until the end of their next turn. Rapid Flight. The devil shrike moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Swift Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 feet, one target. Hit: 15 (2d8+5) bludgeoning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

