# Devil, Lunar

**description**: A hulking figure floats in the air, a winged horror painted in mist and moonlight. Corruptors of the Moon. Always standing a bit apart from the machinations of the Dukes of Hell due to their dependence on moonlight, lunar devils can be found subverting druidical orders or leading packs of werewolves. They are a lazy breed of devil, and prefer lounging in the light of the moon over any more vigorous activity. The only exception is an opportunity to corrupt druids and moon-worshippers, pitting them against followers of sun gods. Vain and Boastful. Lunar devils are as vain as they are indolent, and tales the fey tell of them involve thwarting them by appealing to their vanity. Lunar devils frequently befriend the dark fey. Flying in Darkness. In combat, lunar devils sometimes cast fly on allies to bring them along, and they stay in areas of moonlight whenever they can. Lunar devils have excellent vision in total darkness as well, though, and are happy to use that against foes. At range, they use hurl moonlight and lightwalking to frustrate enemies. In melee, they use wall of ice to split foes, the better to battle just half at a time. Lunar Devils and the Fey In Midgard, lunar devils serve the Moonlit King in the Realms of the Shadow Fey and are close allies of followers of Hecate. They have some agreement with the shadow fey; the two often work together. Traits Devil's Sight: Magical darkness doesn’t impede the devil’s darkvision. Innate Spellcasting: The devil’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: fly, major image, planar binding 3/day: greater invisibility 1/day: wall of ice Light Incorporeality: The devil is semi-incorporeal when standing in moonlight, and is immune to all nonmagical attacks in such conditions. Even when hit by spells or magic weapons, it takes only half damage from a corporeal source, with the exception of force damage. Holy water can affect the devil as it does incorporeal undead. Lightwalking: Once per round, the lunar devil magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, from one beam of moonlight to another within 80 feet. This relocation uses half of its speed. Magic Resistance: The devil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Variant: Summon Devil (1/Day): The devil can attempt a magical summoning. The devil has a 40 percent chance of summoning either 2 chain devils or 1 lunar devil. Actions Multiattack: The devil makes three attacks: one with its bite, one with its claws, and one with its tail. Alternatively, it can use Hurl Moonlight twice. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 11 (1d12 + 5 ) piercing damage. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 10 ft., One target. Hit : 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Tail: Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 10 ft., One target. Hit : 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Hurl Moonlight: Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, range 150 ft., One target. Hit : 19 (3d12) cold damage. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become blinded for 4 rounds.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful evil
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

