# Devil, Arch-Devil Totivullus

**description**: Totivillus, Scribe of Hell This unassuming man has walnut-colored skin and small horns, and he wears a simple, gray scribe’s robe. Evil in Triplicate. Devils track everything, and therein lies the difference between the creatures of demonkind and the creatures of the Nine Hells. The devil responsible for all pacts, soul-stealing contracts, and documents signed in blood is Totivillus, who also creates errors in sacred scrolls and who encourages nodding scribes to drift to sleep and ruin a fresh page of vellum. Serves Mammon. To all outward appearances, Totivillus is the most powerful servant of the Archduke Mammon, though in the infernal chain of command his immediate superior is Duke Berith, the Duke of False Coins and the Master of Accounts. To the unbiased eye, Totivillus is at least as powerful as Duke Berith, and some believe he rivals Mammon himself. However, this is not reflected in public or even in the confidential lists of Hell’s feudal order. Totivillus is a sort of hidden archduke, and that is the way he prefers to operate, shielded by reams of paper and ranks of intermediaries. Humble Appearance. Totivillus is a baron, but unlike most of the princes of Hell, he does not appear wealthy, powerful, or even outwardly malignant. His simple robe seems gray from a distance, but on close inspection it is actually a white garment woven with tiny letters that describe his history and deeds in the Infernal tongue. The Baron’s True Name Depending on your group of players, it might or might not be worth using the baron’s true name: Titivillus. Pronounced at the table, it’s likely to reduce grown men to giggles, but that might prove worthwhile as no arch-devil can stand to be laughed at. Perhaps this is why Totivillus maintains a low profile and works his evil in paper and ink? Traits Devil's Sight: Magical darkness doesn’t impede the devil’s darkvision. Fear Aura: Any creature hostile to Totivillus that starts its turn within 20 feet of him must make a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw, unless Totivillus is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, it is immune to the devil’s Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting: Totivillus is a 20th-level spellcaster who uses Intelligence as his spellcasting ability (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). He requires no material components to cast his spells. Totivillus has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, light, minor illusion, poison spray, prestidigitation 1st level (4 slots): comprehend languages, disguise self, illusory script, magic missile, unseen servant 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, hold person, mirror image, misty step 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, dispel magic, haste, protection from energy 4th level (3 slots): banishment, dimension door, greater invisibility, polymorph 5th level (3 slots): dominate person, geas, modify memory, passwall 6th level (2 slots): eyebite, guards and wards, mass suggestion 7th level (2 slots): forcecage, plane shift 8th level (1 slot): feeblemind 9th level (1 slot): time stop Magic Resistance: The devil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons: Totivillus’s weapon attacks are magical. Meld with Text: Totivillus can enter any book, scroll, or other written material and remain hidden there as long as he wishes. If the text is damaged or destroyed, he is ejected from it without suffering damage. Trust Aura: Totivillus projects a 25-foot-radius trust aura. As long as Totivillus is talking, creatures in that area find his utterances so fascinating and compelling that they must make a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw at the start of each of their turns; if the saving throw fails, they can’t attack Totivillus directly until the start of their next turn. This effect ends immediately and can’t be renewed for 1 minute if Totivillus attacks physically. Devils are not immune to this aura. Actions Multiattack: Totivillus makes two claw attacks. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 30 (4d12 + 4) Slashing damage. Hellfire Bolt (Recharge 5–6): Ranged Spell Attack : +15 to hit, range 120 ft., One target. Hit : 65 (10d12) Force damage plus 33 (6d10) Thunder damage. A successful DC 20 Dexterity saving throw halves thunder damage. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Claw Attack: Totivillus makes one claw attack. Devil's Mark: Totivillus sprays magical ink from his fingertips at a single target within 30 feet. The target must make a successful DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or receive a devil’s mark: a tattoo in the shape of Totivillus’s personal seal. All devils have advantage on spell attacks made against the devil‑marked creature, and the creature has disadvantage on saving throws made against spells and abilities used by devils. The mark can be removed by remove curse if the caster also makes a successful DC 23 spellcasting check. The mark reveals itself as desecrated to detect evil and good. It often shifts its position on the body, especially when it’s concealed (and usually at the most inconvenient moment). Because such marks are sometimes placed on those who’ve made pacts with devils, NPC paladins and clerics might assume that any character bearing a devil’s mark is in league with evil forces. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions): Totivillus casts a spell from its list of prepared spells, using a spell slot as normal.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful evil
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

