# Devil, Arch-Devil, The Curator

**description**: Bulging eyes stare unblinkingly at you from an oversized head held up by a bone neck brace. Its mottled green skin is covered by rich robes, adorned with dozens of delicately carved cages. Curious Being. The Curator was created through a series of improbable events. An amphibious creature fell from the Material Plane into the River Styx and, after bathing in its waters, wriggled its way to the shore. Warped by magic, the now highly-intelligent and mutated creature rose to carve out its corner of Hell. Other arch-devils regard the Curator with a mixture of fear and disgust due to this bizarre origin. Soul Museum. Hidden among the marshes of the Lower Planes, the Curator maintains a museum of souls. It seeks unusual specimens to add to the ever-growing collection of spirits preserved in its crystalline menagerie. The Curator spends its resources finding, buying, and trading for the rarest souls trapped in the Hells. No one knows why the Curator is building the museum, though creatures from across the planes are rumored to have received invitations to view it. The Curator’s Lair The Curator’s museum is a crystalline structure raised from the marshy lands fed by the River Styx. Hidden by magic, the beautiful building is nearly impossible to find without an invitation. The inside of the museum is filled with soul cages carved with luminescent runes, ice sculptures imbued with gleaming souls, and drifting spirits confined within its walls. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Curator can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the curator can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: * All souls in the museum cease to emit light, and the lair becomes completely dark. The souls begin to glow once again on initiative count 20 on the next round. * Souls fly to the Curator to shield it, and the Curator gains 15 temporary hp. They remain until initiative count 20 on the next round. * The Curator commands the captured souls to scream. Each creature the Curator can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or take 18 (4d8) psychic damage. Regional Effects The region containing the Curator’s lair is warped by its magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: * If a creature does not possess an invitation to the museum, dense fog and a labyrinth of marshes make the area within 1 mile of the lair heavily obscured difficult terrain. * The fog that surrounds the lair is filled with whispering voices and the barely-visible forms of spirits. The spirits harass living creatures, making it impossible to benefit from a long rest while within 1 mile of the lair. * The marshy land within 1 mile of the lair is home to an alarmingly large population of frogs and toads. The Curator can choose to see or hear through the senses of any frog or toad in this area and can speak through it while doing so. If the Curator dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. The Curator in Midgard The Curator inhabits a museum in the marshes of Archedantuss. Mammon rules the plane, but his primary concern is the accumulation of wealth. The Curator has struck a bargain with Mammon, which allows the Curator to keep its collection and museum on the shores of the River Styx in exchange for two things: the Curator must collect lesser souls for Mammon, and the Curator must glean the locations of all material treasures its curated souls kept in life. For more information on the plane of Archedantuss, see Warlock #16: Eleven Hells .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

