# Devil, Arch-Devil, Iorvensiav

**description**: This serpentine fiend sprouts four pairs of limbs along her length, and horns of faceted ice adorn her dragon-like head. When moving, her scales scintillate in patterns of frostbite black, glacier blue, and snowy white. A glittering diamond point marks the end of her thrashing tail, and a spiked chain of frosty steel hangs from her clawed hands. Iorvensiav, Lady of the Unforgiving Cold, is master of the frozen hells and queen of frigid deaths. In those infernal places where fires do not burn, the cold is so terrible it can set mortal bones and flesh ablaze. Last of Her Kind. Even Iorvensiav no longer recalls her origins. Some in the hells whisper she was once a dragon, tortured and reshaped by her own request to become the frigid power she is today. Others say she is the last of a species that once roamed the frozen wildlands deep within various hellscapes, the others having long since turned to dust. Cold and Calculating. Iorvensiav often holds herself aloof, watching from a distance and gauging the odds of her opportunities. She watches for any options that give her a firmer hold on her growing power in the hells. The chill she wears like a cloak is only a mask, however. Inside, the Lady of Unforgiving Cold is a raging inferno, capable of sudden violence when she is displeased. Her Shiny Hoard. Similar to dragons, Iorvensiav keeps a hoard. Instead of coins, jewels, and other wealth, she gathers frozen souls to her lair. These souls are strewn throughout her mountain kingdom as frozen carvings, depicting how the creatures appeared in life. Iorvensiav's Lair A mountain of ice rises up from a hellish plain of frost. Within the mountain, at the center of a fiend-riddled labyrinth, a glimmering, cylindrical chamber of cyclopean proportions reaches from the mountain's depths to its peak. Iorvensiav resides in this chamber, hoarding souls as she grows in power. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Iorvensiav can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Iorvensiav can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Freezing Fog. Freezing fog rises up from the floor or pours out of the walls from a point Iorvensiav can see within 120 feet of her. Each hostile creature within 30 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or its speed is halved, it takes a -2 penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it can't use reactions until the end of its next turn. Frigid Blast. A cold wind blasts down from the top of the lair. Each hostile creature within 60 feet of Iorvensiav must succeed on a DC 21 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Flying creatures have disadvantage on the saving throw and take falling damage if knocked prone, as normal. Ice Barrage. Magical shards of ice whirl violently around a point Iorvensiav can see within 120 feet of her. Each hostile creature within 20 feet of that point must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) piercing damage and 10 (3d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Amphibious. Iorvensiav can breathe air and water. Death Throes. When Iorvensiav dies, she explodes, and each creature within 30 feet of her must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 70 (20d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The explosion freezes objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried, encapsulating them in ice. Freezing Weapons. Iorvensiav's weapon attacks are magical. When she hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d6 cold damage (included in the attack). Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Iorvensiav fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Iorvensiav has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. Iorvensiav makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. She can replace one Claw attack with a Freezing Chain attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage and 7 (2d6) cold damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) slashing damage and 7 (2d6) cold damage. Freezing Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 21). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and takes 14 (4d6) cold damage at the start of each of its turns, and Iorvensiav can't make Freezing Chain attacks against other targets. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d8 + 9) slashing damage and 7 (2d6) cold damage. This attack ignores resistance to slashing damage, and if Iorvensiav rolls a 20 on the attack roll, she cuts off one of the target's heads. The target dies if it can't survive without the lost head. If the target doesn't have a head or can't be decapitated, it takes an extra 27 (6d6) slashing damage instead. Thundering Ice Breath (Recharge 5-6). Iorvensiav exhales a booming, frigid spray in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 45 (8d10) cold damage and 45 (8d10) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is stunned until the end of its next turn. Bonus Actions Change Shape. Iorvensiav magically transforms into any Beast, Fiend, or Humanoid that is Huge or smaller or back into her true form. Her statistics, other than her size, are the same in each form. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying transforms with her or is borne by the new form (Iorvensiav's choice). She reverts to her true form if she dies. Legendary Actions Iorvensiav can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Iorvensiav regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Detect. Iorvensiav makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. Iorvensiav makes a tail attack. Chilling Wings (Costs 2 Actions). Iorvensiav beats her wings, releasing a blast of icy wind. Each creature within 15 feet of her must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 14 (4d6) cold damage and be stunned until the end of its next turn. Iorvensiav can then fly up to half her flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

