# Devil, Maelstrom

**description**: Razor-sharp claws tip the long arms of this coralline fiend, and a crown of flowing water adorns its head. It raises a rusted trident in fury, and the wind rises into a tumultuous gale around it. Maelstrom devils are fiends who largely dwell on the Material Plane. Unconcerned with the ever-shifting politics of Hell, they lair within dangerous shoals, war-torn waters, and remote shipping lanes. These devils are brute-force manipulators, unleashing horrible storms and suborned monsters upon passing ships, then roping mortals into their schemes with promises of safe passage and personal profit. Tempestuous Extortionists. Maelstrom devils can control the weather, conjuring horrific storms or becalming unruly seas. They use this to beset merchant vessels and ferries with sudden hurricanes and rough seas before offering to quell the storm if the captain will do as the devil asks. Compliant captains find that their ships sail safely, and they make record profits, as competitors find their own shipments running aground or delayed by unseasonable storms. Others, as well as any captains who try to go back on their deal with the devil, are killed. Labyrinthine Manipulators. Maelstrom devils aren't concerned with the damnation of individual souls, instead preferring to use their network of blackmailed captains and subverted ships to spread misery on a larger scale. They ensure that food fails to reach starving cities, that vital medicine never reaches those who need it most, and that the families of all aboard the nearest vessel never see their loved ones again. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the maelstrom devil's darkvision. Influence Weather. Nearby weather responds to the maelstrom devil's desires. At the start of each minute, the maelstrom devil can choose to change the precipitation and wind within 1 mile of it by one stage, up or down (no action required). This effect works like the changing weather conditions aspect of the control weather spell, except the maelstrom devil can't change the temperature and the conditions change immediately. Magic Resistance. The devil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The devil makes three Claws attacks and one Tempest Trident attack, or it makes three Lightning Ray attacks. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Tempest Trident. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d12 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage. A creature hit by this attack must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone by a gust of wind channeled through the trident. Lightning Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 150 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d8) lightning damage. Crown of Water (1/Day). The water on the maelstrom devil's head erupts in a geyser. Each creature within 10 feet of the devil must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. For 1 minute, when a creature enters a space within 10 feet of the devil for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) cold damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

