# Devil, Orobas

**description**: Tall and powerful, this creature resembles a strong man with well‑chiseled muscles, save its equine head, flaring nostrils, and hoofed feet. The orobas thrive in Hell, selling their knowledge to those who have the coin (or other form of payment). The common phrase, “never trust a gift horse,” stems from these corrupting devils. Horse-Headed but Wise. When called to the mortal world, they sometimes take the shape of a destrier. Orobas devils prefer to take the horrific form of a horse-headed man. Sulfuric smoke curls from their nostrils and their fingers sport ragged claws. This beast‑like appearance belies their true strength; the orobas possess an uncanny knowledge of the past, as well as of things to come. Masters of Deceit. When bargaining with an orobas, one must speak truthfully—or possess an exceptionally quick tongue and the most charming smile. Practitioners of the dark arts know these devils as the Lords of Distortion, for their ability to practice deceit. They prize reality-warping magic above all else, and bribes of that sort can win concessions when making a pact. Surrounded by Lessers. Orobas devils gather lesser devils both as chattel and defense. Their analytical minds telepathically confer the strengths and weaknesses of foes to their allies. With surprising speed, the deceivers can assess a battlefield, weigh outcomes, and redirect forces. Enemies of the orobas almost never catch them off guard. They have frequent, clear visions of their immediate future. Orobas Devils in Midgard Once a benevolent race of advisors to the great serpent Ouroboros, these devils tricked the “dragon that eats itself ” into renouncing its nature, nearly destroying the mortal world in the process. Ouroboros cast down these deceivers after learning of their treachery, committing them into hellish exile. Traits Knowing (3/day): An orobas can predict actions and alter chance accordingly. Three times per day, it can choose to have advantage on any attack or skill check. Magic Resistance: The orobas has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons: The orobas’s weapon attacks are magical. Sage Advice: An orobas sometimes twists responses to a divination. It softens the answer, leaves crucial information out of the response, manipulates a convoluted answer, or outright lies. An orobas always has advantage on Deception and Persuasion checks when revealing the result of a divination. Innate Spellcasting: The orobas’ spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: Constant: detect evil and good At will: augury, protection from evil and good, teleport (self plus 50 lb. of objects only) 5/day each: bestow curse, fireball, scorching ray 3/day each: antimagic field, chain lightning, contact other plane, dimension door, wall of fire 1/day each: eyebite, find the path, foresight Actions Multiattack: The orobas makes four attacks: one with its bite, one with its claw, one with its flail, and one with its stomp. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 18 (3d6 + 8) piercing damage. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned. While poisoned in this way, the target can’t regain hit points and it takes 14 [4d6] poison damage at the start of each of its turns. The poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., One target. Hit : 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage. Flail: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, range 10 ft., One target. Hit : 17 (2d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8) acid damage. Stomp: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, range 5 ft., One target. Hit : 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful evil
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

