# Devouring Belua (Revelations)

**description**: The emergence of such a formidable monster as this breed of belua is a rare and dreaded event. Most beluas succumb to their curse and transform into lesser monstrosities, such as the Scourge Lycans, which though still dangerous, don’t possess the same unfathomable savagery as their greater kin. However, should a particularly skilled hunter lose their grip on their own humanity, they may become a far greater menace to the city than any mere beast they had once vanquished. The devouring belua is a fearsome monstrosity birthed from the unbridled fury of an eponymous scourgeborne, a monster that bears witness to the brutal nature of their curse. Once half-beasts of lupine visage, with a tenuous hold on their souls, they are now consumed by the inferno of their own anger, and have surrendered entirely to their bestial essence, abandoning any semblance of morality. The devouring belua's lupine form has completely overtaken their humanoid shape; their once unblemished skin now a mangled tangle of coarse, matted hair; their muzzles elongated, filled with razor-sharp teeth that rend flesh with vicious ease; and their howls, harrowing echoes of their suffering, are now cacophonous cries that freeze the blood of those who hear them. Once turned, these monsters prowl the shadowed alleyways and desolate corners of Luyarnha, their blind anger robbing them of their sight, like a cruel poetry of fate. Relying solely on their heightened senses of hearing and smell to navigate the world around them, their blindness now only serves as a catalyst for their rage, ensuring that anyone—beast or human—who crosses their path will be met with a storm of ferocity. It is whispered that devouring belua are capable of detecting the rage that lies dormant in the hearts of others, drawn to the turmoil that festers within. They prey upon these enraged souls, devouring the very essence of their anger, leaving behind a broken husk, devoid of fury or flesh, whilst feeding their own insatiable anger in vain. Some unfortunate beluas cross path with accursed weapons that robs them of their sight, hastening the scourgeborne's descent into their fully transformed, Devouring kin. Such a belua has a CR of 11, and gains the following trait: Special Equipment. The Devouring Belua has a Revelations . It can replace its claw attacks with attacks with the weapon. Traits Blood Frenzy. The belua has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn't have all its hit points. Crippling Strikes. Creatures provoke opportunity attacks from the belua even if they take the Disengage action before leaving its reach. When the belua hits a creature with an opportunity attack, the creature's speed becomes 0 for the rest of the turn. Keen Hearing and Smell. The belua has advantage on Perception checks that rely on hearing or smell. Never-ending Fury. The belua has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws and a +3 bonus to its damage for melee weapon attacks (included in the attacks). Regeneration. The belua regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn. If the belua takes damage from a moongilded weapon, this trait doesn't function at the start of the belua's next turn. The Belua dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The belua makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) piercing damage. This attack scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20 on the d20. On a critical hit, the belua’s monstrous jaws rip off one of the target’s appendages. Roll a d12 on the following table for the result: 1-2: Right forearm 3-4: Left forearm 5-6: Right hand 7-8: Left hand 9: Left leg 10: Right leg 11: Gut 12: Head A creature that has an appendage ripped off takes 5 (1d10) necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns as it bleeds out, until it receives magical healing. If its gut is ripped off, it takes 11 (2d10) necrotic damage instead. A creature that loses its head dies if it can't live without it. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d4 + 8) slashing damage. Bonus actions Bestial Rage (3/Day). The belua enters a feral rage fuelled by its ravenous hunger. It becomes Huge, it gains 20 temporary hit points, and the number of damage dice of its natural weapon attacks increase by one (3d8 for the bite and 3d4 for the claw). This transformation lasts for 1 minute, or until the belua takes more than 15 damage from a moongilded weapon in a single turn, or until the belua dies. Leap. The belua jumps up to 50 feet horizontally or vertically.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

