# Devouring Angel

**description**: Vaguely humanoid in shape, this creature has smooth, white skin with shifting red patterns. Its long, thin limbs are of differing proportions, giving it a jerking gait. Its eyeless face is dominated by a fanged maw with a long, red tongue. Devouring angels are twisted planar predators that can and do attempt to consume any and all life forms. Angelic Shape. Originating in the Upper Planes, devouring angels are nothing more than a semi-intelligent celestial slime mold that evolved a form loosely resembling the angels of its home. They even evolved fleshy quasi-wings, earning the creature its name. Though it isn't as malleable as its slimy ancestor, its body remains incredibly flexible, allowing the devouring angel to chase prey into small burrows or homes. Planar Gourmands . Devouring angels like eating and consume anything they can easily bite. They aren't malicious and prefer easy meals to fighting when possible. However, their love of tasting something they have never tasted drives them to always seek new locales with new creatures to devour and new delicacies to sample. Clever travelers who know a devouring angel inhabits an area bring exotic foods to placate the hungry creature and earn safe passage. Assisted Leaping. The devouring angel can use its quasi-wings to fly up to 30 feet on its turn, but it must start and end its movement on a solid surface, such as a roof or the ground. If it is flying at the end of its turn, it falls to the ground and takes falling damage. Flexible Form. The devouring angel can twist its body into unnatural positions, allowing it to easily move through any opening large enough for a Small creature. It can squeeze through any opening large enough for a Tiny creature. The angel's destination must still have suitable room to accommodate its volume. Keen Smell. The devouring angel has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Limited Telepathy. The devouring angel can magically communicate simple ideas, emotions, and images telepathically with any creature within 100 feet of it that can understand a language. Actions Multiattack. The devouring angel makes one Bite attack and four Claw attacks. It can replace one Claw attack with a Spiked Tongue attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) acid damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Spiked Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and takes 9 (2d8) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns, and the devouring angel can pull the creature up to 15 feet closer to it as a bonus action. The devouring angel can have only one target grappled in this way at a time. Shed Spines (Recharge 5-6). The devouring angel shakes its body, sending acid-coated spines outward. Each creature within 10 feet of the devouring angel must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) piercing damage and 24 (7d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

