# Dinosaur, Razorfeather Raptor

**description**: A large raptor stalks through the brush, chittering and chirping. Its vibrant emerald feathers gleam like steel, and its eyes reflect a malevolent intelligence. Razorfeather raptors are the results of arcane experiments in creating a more lethal and intelligent velociraptor. They were imbued with blade-like feathers, armored skin, great intelligence, and an instinctive drive to hunt humanoids. The result was a terrifying pack hunter with an urge to hunt and eat humanoids. Now, they're a relentless scourge upon isolated communities and lost hunters. Escaped Experiment. An arcano-paleontologist thought he had designed the perfect soldier: intelligent, social, lethal, and easy to control. The process went well until the first batch of raptors were purchased and deployed. Without warning or apparent cause, they slaughtered their handlers and escaped into the wilds, leaving a trail of bodies in their wake. The wizard stopped his experiments and destroyed the raptors he had, but he was already too late. Hundreds had escaped from half a dozen buyers, most of whom died during the escape. The wizard's reputation was ruined, and the razorfeather raptors were free. Intelligent Hunters. Though lacking speech, razorfeather raptors are almost as intelligent as the humanoids they devour. They understand the speech of those around them, can work door handles, latches, and basic locks, and can set elaborate traps for their prey. Many adventurers who think they have cornered a raptor find they have stumbled into an ambush from the pack. Rumors abound of raptors that have learned literacy or how to use magic items, but they remain unconfirmed. Jungle Stalkers. Razorfeather raptors dwell in thick jungles and wetlands. They live in networks of small packs, which share nests and protect each other's eggs but hunt and socialize separately. Though fully capable of living on prey animals, the raptors have a compulsive need to hunt humanoids. They stalk hunters, lost travelers, and even attack rural villages and isolated mines. Most of these attacks are months-long campaigns of terror, with isolated individuals or families disappearing in surprise attacks. When humanoids discover razorfeather raptors, or hunt them in retaliation, the attacks escalate and often lead to small villages being wiped from the map. Pack Tactics. The raptor has advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the raptor's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Pounce. If the raptor moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the raptor can make one Bladed Feather attack against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack. The raptor makes one Bladed Feather attack and one Claw attack. Bladed Feather. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage, and the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the end of its next turn. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

