# Dinosaur, Spinosaurus

**description**: A spinosaurus is a land and riverine predator capable of carrying a platoon of lizardfolk long distances on raids. Often called a river king or river dragon, they are worshipped by bullywugs and other primitive humanoids. Friend to Lizardfolk. The spinosaurus is a special saurian bred for size and loyalty by lizardfolk. Lizardfolk prize them like prime warhorses, and lavish them with food and care. Enormous Size and Color. This immense saurian has a long tooth-filled maw, powerful claws, and colorful spines running the length of its spine. An adult dire spinosaurus is 70 feet long and weighs 35,000 pounds or more, and a young spinosaurus is 20 feet long and weighs 6,000 pounds or more. Swift Predator. A spinosaurus is quick on both land and water. Spinosauruses as Mounts Spinosauruses mate each year in the winter. Male spinosauruses bring food and help build an enormous nest of reeds, sticks, and mud. Then the male departs, leaving the female to lay and care for the eggs. Spinosaurus eggs are typically found in nests along riversides or deep in marshes. They are sometimes stolen and sold, generally to lizardfolk and sometimes to daring humans with a knack for training animals. These eggs are worth as much as 2,000 gp apiece; live young are worth twice that. Characters eager for dire spinosaurus mounts, however, should note that buying or domesticating such an enormous carnivore requires vast amounts of food and vast stores of patience. They do not take easily to domestication. Before it can be ridden in combat, a spinosaurus must practice bearing the weight of its trainer and passengers. They rarely master more than a handful of tricks, but they are extremely comfortable in the water and are aware that some of their riders may not breathe water. An adult spinosaurus can carry up to six tons as cargo. Riding a spinosaurus requires an exotic saddle, riding platform, or howdah. Spinosauruses in the Southlands The lizardfolk of Veles-Sa in the Southlands use spinosauruses as a mode of transportation; they are large enough to pull barges or to carry a crew of raiders anywhere on the rivers, and they are reasonably swift overland as well. Lizardfolk scouts are especially fond of these enormous reptiles, as they are powerful combatants and capable of carrying a dozen lizardfolk warriors. In addition to their role as trained raiders in Veles-Sa, some spinosauruses live in or along most of the major river systems of the Southlands—including the River Nuria. There they are also called “river dragons” or sometimes “river walkers,” and they are frequently associated with the worship of Baal-Hotep and Set. They are kept as sacred animals in several river temples, where they are fed regular meals and have been known to grow to enormous size and strength. Finally, along the Spice Coast, spinosauruses carry high-value spice cargoes along the coast when banditry is rife or when a lizardfolk mercenary company is available to guard materials going north toward Mhalmet, Nuria, or Ishadia. These Spice Coast beasts are often especially bred for gaudy coloration: green-and-orange, blue-and-gold, and even red-and-black bloodlines are spotted in the Spice Coast harbors. Traits Tamed: The spinosaurus will never willingly attack any reptilian humanoid, and if forced or magically compelled to do so, it suffers disadvantage on attack rolls. Up to twelve Medium or four Large creatures can ride the spinosaurus. This trait disappears if the spinosaurus spends a month away from any reptilian humanoid. Siege Monster: The spinosaurus deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack: The spinosaurus makes one bite attack and two claw attacks. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, range 15 ft., One target. Hit : 34 (4d12 + 8) piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled, escape DC 18. When the spinosaurus moves, the grappled creature moves with it. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the spinosaurus can’t bite another target. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, range 10 ft., One target. Hit : 22 (4d6 + 8) slashing damage. Tail: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, range 20 ft., One target. Hit : 21 (3d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence: Each creature of the spinosaurus’ choice that is within 120 feet of the spinosaurus and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the spinosaurus’ Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Move: The spinosaurus moves up to half its speed. Roar: The spinosaurus uses Frightful Presence. Tail Attack (Costs 2 Actions): The spinosaurus makes one tail attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: beast
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

