# Dire Wildebeest

**description**: This giant antelope has a head topped with curving horns, a brown hide marked with old scars, spindly legs, and a shaggy mane and tail. Dire wildebeests live on the plains in warm regions where they travel in small groups or together with herds of wildebeests and zebras. Their presence deters predators, who are repelled by its fearsome stare and foul breath. When the herd is in danger, dire wildebeests step forward to confront the threat. If their presence fails to drive off the menace, they can initiate deadly stampedes. Voracious Omnivores. Dire wildebeests follow migratory patterns that coincide with seasonal rains, traveling vast distances in search of fresh grazing and breeding grounds. Unlike their smaller cousins, dire wildebeests can eat carrion. This proclivity fills their mouths with decay, giving them their distinctive foul breath. Patchwork Creations. Locals living in the grasslands say the gods created these grotesque creatures from the parts left over after making all the other animals. The gods are to said to have combined a warthog's head, a buffalo's horns, a lion's tail, and a goat's legs, then gave the creature bad breath for good measure. Trampling Charge. If the dire wildebeest moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Gore attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the wildebeest can make one Hooves attack against it as a bon us action. Actions Multiattack. The dire wildebeest uses Intimidating Glare. It then makes one Gore attack and one Hooves attack. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 22 (4d8 + 4) piercing damage. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Intimidating Glare. The dire wildebeest glares at one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the wildebeest, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the target's saving throw is successful or if the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the wildebeest's Intimidating Glare for the next 24 hours. Noxious Breath (Recharge 5-6). The dire wildebeest exhales noxious gas in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in the area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Incite Stampede (1/Day). The dire wildebeest moves up to 30 feet in a straight line and can move through the space of any Medium or smaller creature. Each friendly creature within 120 feet of the dire wildebeest can use its reaction to join the stampede and move up to 30 feet in a straight line and move through the space of any Medium or smaller creature. This movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. The first time a stampeding creature enters a creature's space during this move, that creature must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't knocked prone. For each creature in the stampede after the first, the save DC increases by 1, to a maximum of DC 17, and the damage increases by 3 (1d6), to a maximum of 8d6.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

