# Dire Bunny

**description**: Yes, a dire bunny is a great enchanting buddy, valuable rogue-like combatant, and excellent at getting the truth out of folks. But what no-one talks about is their ability to plough a field. One word and thousands of bony limbs dig it all up. Just don’t take them to a graveyard, they get… distracted. - Heliana, Aspiring Farmer Type: Aberration Creature Component: Bonemonger Bonus Tamer Improvement: Sneak Attack Astral hermits are a strange and esoteric species. Mercantile in nature, those that visit the Material Plane choose forms that appear innocuous and unthreatening, to better sell their enchanting services. The hermit from which this specimen, dubbed the ‘dire bunny’, has been crafted had a peculiar fascination with bones that has been surprisingly difficult to remove. If any of the dire bunny’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the dire bunny’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the dire bunny’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer Sneak Attack Prerequisite: become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion) Once on its turn, the dire bunny can deal an extra 3 (1d6) damage to one creature it hits with a Bite attack if it has advantage on the attack roll. The dire bunny doesn’t need advantage on the attack roll if another enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, that enemy isn’t incapacitated, and the dire bunny doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. The extra damage increases by 1d6 when the dire bunny’s tamer reaches 3rd level (2d6), 5th level (3d6), 9th level (4d6), 13th level (5d6), and 17th level (6d6) in the tamer class. Astral Enchanter I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action), Passive (tamer) While the dire bunny is summoned, its tamer has a +2 bonus to Enchanting checks*. In addition, as an action, the dire bunny can cast the identify spell, requiring no material components. After it uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Mi! Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the dire bunny proclaims “Mi!” at one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. If the target can hear the proclamation, it must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 4 (1d8) thunder damage and 4 (1d8) psychic damage, and become frightened of the dire bunny until the end of the dire bunny’s next turn. Veracious Question Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action), Passive (companion & tamer) The dire bunny gains proficiency in the Persuasion and Intimidation skills and, while the bunny is summoned, its tamer can add half its proficiency bonus to ability checks it makes that use the Insight, Intimidation, or Persuasion skills. In addition, when the dire bunny asks a question, it can use a bonus action to imbue the question with magical truth. If the question’s recipient can hear (or otherwise perceive) and understand the question, it must make a Charisma saving throw, blurting out a short, truthful answer on a failure, or answering as it pleases (if at all) on a success. A creature can choose to fail this saving throw. After the dire bunny has used this bonus action twice, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Grasping Bonetide I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the dire bunny summons a wave of animated bones that ripples out from it in either a 30-foot cone or 15-foot-radius circle (dire bunny’s choice). Skeletal limbs burst out from surfaces in the area, slashing and grasping at creatures in contact with those surfaces. Each of those creatures must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) slashing damage and becoming restrained until the end of the dire bunny’s next turn on a failure, or taking half as much damage and not becoming restrained on a success. After the dire bunny uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the dire bunny’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 17 (5d6). Boney Carapace I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The dire bunny gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Springstrike Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Sneak Attack Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The dire bunny’s speed increases by 10 feet. As an action, the dire bunny can move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and make one Bite attack. Uncanny Dodge Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Active (reaction) When an attacker that the dire bunny can see hits it with an attack, the dire bunny can use its reaction to halve the attack’s damage against it. Zone of Retributive Truth Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Veracious Question Type: Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the dire bunny manifests an aura that lasts for 1 minute and extends 20 feet from the dire bunny, moving with it. As part of the bonus action to create the aura and as a bonus action on subsequent turns, the dire bunny can ask one creature it can see within the aura a question. If the creature can hear (or otherwise perceive) the question and understands it, it feels compelled to answer truthfully. If it doesn’t answer before the end of its next turn, or answers untruthfully, it must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be thrown up to 20 feet in a direction of the dire bunny’s choice. After the dire bunny has manifested this aura, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Astral Enchanter II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Astral Enchanter I Type: Active (action), Passive (tamer) While the dire bunny is summoned, its tamer has a +2 bonus to Enchanting checks*. This is in addition to the bonus from Astral Enchanter I. As an action, the dire bunny can cast the identify spell at will, requiring no material components. Grasping Bonetide II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Grasping Bonetide I Type: Passive (companion) The damage of the dire bunny’s Grasping Bonetide action increases to 24 (7d6), and the size of the area increases to a 50-foot cone or a 20-foot-radius circle. The dire bunny gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the dire bunny’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 35 (10d6). Boney Carapace II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Boney Carapace I Type: Passive (companion) The dire bunny gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. This is in addition to the bonus from Boney Carapace I. Astral Enchanter III Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Astral Enchanter II Type: Active (action), Passive (tamer) While the dire bunny is summoned, its tamer has a +2 bonus to Enchanting checks*. This is in addition to the bonuses from Astral Enchanter I & II. As an action, the dire bunny can cast the locate object spell, requiring no material components. This spell ends early when the dire bunny is dismissed. *See Heliana’s Guide to Monster Hunting Bone Cage Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Boney Carapace II Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The dire bunny gains a +1 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. This is in addition to the bonuses from Boney Carapace I & II. As an action, the dire bunny creates a magical effect identical to the bone cage* spell (see page 341) with a range of self (30-foot-radius sphere). After it uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 26720
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

