# Dire Afanc

**description**: The curious creature known as the afanc is a predator that lurks in rivers and lakes, patiently waiting for prey to approach the water. It is a ravenous carnivore that will eat any creature of its size or smaller, although it prefers livestock, fish, and reptiles. Ambush Predator. Once a chosen prey is within range of its strike, the afanc would burst from the water and pounce on its target, latching its jaws on the victim's neck or back before biting with tremendous force to instantly snap it. If the prey manages to survive this initial assault, the afanc would drag it back into the water and try to drown it. Invisible Abomination. The monstrous afanc has the body and head of a 12-foot-long giant beaver, the limbs and jaws of a bear, and the claws, spine, and tail of a crocodile. Underneath the fur of the afanc is a tough armor-like hide covered with scutes similar to a crocodile's that can resist most blows. The afanc's crocodilian tail ends with a large, paddle-shaped plate identical to a beaver's tail. The afanc is always invisible before it attacks, appearing when it strikes. Once it has killed its prey, it immediately turns invisible again and retreats to its lair with its prize where it can feed in peace. Force Manipulators. Older afancs are even more dangerous. By simply slamming their tails on a surface, their paddle-shaped tails vibrate and create supernatural waves of force that the afanc can direct, instantly killing most creatures hit by them. Afancs sometimes use this ability to create a tidal wave or whirlpool strong enough to overturn a small boat to toss its occupants overboard. An afanc is usually encountered alone or as a mated pair. Rarely are there more than two in the same territory, but if a large group exists, it is most certainly led by an alpha. A Dire Afanc's Lair A dire afanc usually builds its lair near a large body of water where it hunts its food. This place is usually a large, underground cave that can only be reached via an underwater passage or tunnel, which the afanc most probably made. A dire afanc encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 12 (8,400 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the afanc can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the afanc can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Pools of water within 120 feet of the afanc surge outward like a tidal wave. Any creature on the ground within 15 feet of such a pool must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. Parts of the ceiling collapses above three creatures that the afanc can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage. The afanc targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it and sends a focused wave of vibrations toward it. The creature must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become incapacitated due to nausea until the end of the afanc's next turn. Traits Hold Breath. The afanc can hold its breath for 30 minutes. Actions Multiattack. The afanc makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Tail Club attack. When its Force Wave is available, it can use the Force Wave in place of its Tail Club attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it is also grappled (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the afanc can't make Bite attacks against other targets. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage. Tail Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away from the afanc and knocked prone. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is also stunned until the end of the afanc's next turn. Invisibility. The afanc magically turns invisible. The invisibility ends when the afanc attacks, uses Force Wave, or if it takes damage. Force Wave (Recharge 5–6). The afanc slams its tail on the ground and creates a wave of supernatural force. Each creature in a 30-foot cube originating from the afanc must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 31 (7d8) force damage and is pushed 10 feet away from the afanc. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed. Legendary Actions The afanc can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The afanc regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The afanc makes a Claw attack. Vanish. The afanc uses Invisibility. Tail Sweep (Costs 2 Actions). The afanc swings its tail violently. Each creature standing on the ground in a 15-foot cube originating from the afanc must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or take 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

