# Diving Gel

**description**: A green blob the size of a human head undulates through the water, peaceful and serene. Air bubbles float through its form, occasionally dissolving without apparent cause. Escaped Experiment. The original diving gels were the personal project of a wizard obsessed with the sunken treasure of lost civilizations and ancient shipwrecks. Unsatisfied with existing magic, she sought to create a docile ooze to help her to breathe underwater, and which might be sold to her colleagues once it was perfected. Unfortunately, a dissatisfied apprentice burned her notes and released the entire stock of early oozes into the sea, then attempted to replicate the project for his own profit. He was murdered by his early specimens, which joined the swiftly-growing population of rogue oozes in the sea. Curious Creations. Diving gels were made to help land-dwelling creatures breathe underwater while seeking sunken treasure. As a result, they are curious about shiny objects and new lifeforms. When meeting a new creature, a diving gel attaches itself to the creature's head or face, content to ride on the creature to see what the creature sees and does for a few hours, unless the creature attacks it. If the creature dies, the diving gel consumes the remains. If not, it detaches once the creature no longer explores new areas or no longer brings the diving gel to areas where it can observe or collect shiny objects. Hungry diving gels purposefully suffocate fish and slowly consume the decaying body. Obsessive Hoarders. Diving gels collect or congregate near things that shine. In their watery environs, this is often sunken treasure, but the gels can't distinguish valuable trinkets from shiny junk. Though their hoards can fill entire rooms in their sunken lairs, with colonies of dozens of diving gels watching their treasure shine in rapt attention, those hoards are often filled with colorful rocks, shiny fish scales, and rusted locks and doorknobs rather than actual treasure. Worse, the diving gels protect these baubles as vociferously as a dragon protects its hoard, bludgeoning would-be thieves and suffocating intruders. Some treasure-hunters trade with diving gels, offering copper coins for gold or interesting scales for ancient treasures, but many colonies simply take the offered item without offering anything in return. Amorphous. The gel can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Amphibious. The gel can breathe air and water. Ooze Nature. The diving gel doesn't require sleep. Actions Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Attach. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: The gel attaches itself to the head, face, or gills of a creature. If the creature is Large or smaller and can breathe air, it continues to breathe normally as the air-filled gel provides breathable air for the creature. If the creature can't breathe air, it must hold its breath or begin to suffocate. If the gel is attached to a creature, it has advantage on attack rolls against that creature. A creature, including the target, can take its action to detach the diving gel by succeeding on a DC 12 Strength check.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Ooze
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1/4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

