# Diwata

**description**: Diwata (Dee-what-tah) If a good-natured young humanoid who loved being in the forest dies within it, ancient Feywild magic or a compassionate nature deity such as Eldath or Mielikki may sometimes reincarnate the dead humanoid into a diwata, the most powerful and rarest of engkantos. The diwata's natural form is a tall, graceful humanoid made from an orchid-like plant. Its pleasant face features attractive elven-like traits, with kind amber-like eyes, pale lilac skin, carnation-colored lips, and an array of leaves, vines, and flowers flow from its shoulders like a cloak. Benevolent Conservator. The diwata lives to protect the forests and all of its inhabitants. Unlike other engkantos, though, it strives for a harmonious relationship with those who live outside of its domain. Those who live near a diwata's realm often worship it as a deity and make offerings. In return, the diwata ensures that they are safe from natural calamities such as earthquakes and deluges and provides them with plenty of the forest's resources in times of drought. The diwata will always aid and lend its wisdom to anyone as long as that person does not deliberately harm any of the diwata's wards or take more than what it needs from the forest's resources. A Diwata's Lair A diwata's lair is a garden or grove of beautiful and majestic flowering trees and orchids. Bariaurs, centaurs, faerie dragons, dryads, good elves, green duwendes, pegasi, pegataurs, pixies, sprites, and treants are normally encountered in and around the lair, supporting and protecting the diwata. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the diwata takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the diwata can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: A strong wind blows around the diwata. Each creature within 60 feet of the diwata must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away from the diwata and knocked prone. Gases and vapors are dispersed by the wind, and unprotected flames are extinguished. Protected flames, such as lanterns, have a 50 percent chance of being extinguished. Up to three creatures the diwata can see within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or fall into a deep sleep and become unconscious. An unconscious creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the unconscious creature takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake, it gains advantage on its next saving throw. Regional Effects The region containing a diwata’s lair is warped by the diwata’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Once per day, the diwata can alter the weather or end an earthquake in a 6-mile radius centered on its lair. The diwata doesn’t need to be outdoors; otherwise the effect is identical to the control weather spell. Plants and trees within 6 miles of the diwata’s lair are bursting with greenery, flowers, and fruits as if in summer. The smell of lilies, hyacinths, and lilacs fill the air and colorful butterflies flitter about the area. Tiny beasts, such as rodents and birds, that are normally unable to speak gain the magical ability to speak and understand Common, Elven, and Fey while within 1 mile of the diwata’s lair. These creatures speak well of the diwata, but can’t divulge its whereabouts. If the diwata dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Engkanto (Eng-kaan-toh) Despite their plant-like appearance, engkantos are actually mighty fey spirits that dwell in the Material Plane. They were once humanoids who died in ancient enchanted forests and, through Feywild magic or by a nature deity's intervention, were reincarnated into engkantos. They may not fully recall their mortal life, but engkantos will occasionally see glimpses of their past. This sometimes leaves engkantos confused and even frustrated. Thankfully, the forest where it now lives gives enkantos a sense of peace. In return, the engkantos become its mighty guardian. Engkantos tend to be reclusive and very rarely show themselves to nonwoodland dwellers. However, they are fascinated with the humanoids who live near their territories, perhaps because it reminds them of their past. At times, enkantos even act as their invisible guardians and even transform themselves into normal humanoids to get closer to the neighbors' communities, possibly mingling with them without them knowing of their true nature. Nature's Guardians. Engkantos see themselves as protectors and wardens of the forests and its inhabitants and often work with druids. Because of this, they often come into conflict with those who enter, encroach, and defile their territories, which can span miles of wooded areas, though how they react and pursue a course of action dramatically differs from one another. There are three types of engkantos: anitos, diwatas, and malignos. Grove-bound. Engkantos are bound to a special grove or group of trees, just like a dryad is bound to a tree. An engkanto can emerge from any of the trees within its grove and travel the lands around it, but the grove remains its home and roots the enkanto to the Material Plane. As long as one tree from the grove remains alive and unharmed, the engkanto stays healthy. If any of the trees are harmed, the engkanto suffers. If the grove is ever destroyed, the engkanto descends into madness and will seek vengeance against those responsible. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the diwata fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The diwata has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Plant Camouflage. The diwata has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuring plant life. Regeneration. The diwata regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it is within 120 feet of its grove. If the diwata takes fire or necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the diwata’s next turn. The diwata’s body is destroyed only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Speak with Beasts and Plants. The diwata can communicate with beasts and plants as if they and the diwata shared a language. Spell Penetration. When the diwata casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The diwata can use its Pacifying Presence. It then makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) radiant damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the diwata until the end of the diwata's next turn. Pacifying Presence. Each creature of the diwata’s choice that the diwata can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, or else the target drops any weapons it is holding, ends its concentration on any spells or other effects, and becomes charmed by the diwata for 1 minute. The charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the diwata’s Pacifying Presence for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The diwata casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): At will: bestow curse, dancing lights, druidcraft, entangle, healing word (as a 4th-level spell), tree stride, word of radiance (4d6) 2/day each: aura of life, awaken, banishment, control water, dawn, greater restoration, plant growth, wrath of nature 1/day each: control weather, dominate person, druid grove, geas, heal, heroes' feast, reincarnate Change Shape. The diwata magically transforms into a Medium humanoid, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the diwata is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Legendary Actions The diwata gains 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The diwata regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The diwata moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Slam. The diwata makes a Slam attack. Cast Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The diwata innately casts a spell. Expel (Costs 2 Actions). One creature the diwata can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be teleported to an unoccupied space within 240 feet of the diwata. That space must be on the ground or on a floor. 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Neutral good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

