# Djinni Grand Caliph

**description**: The Grand Caliph rules over all djinn from his palace in the djinni capital known as the Citadel of Ice and Steel in the Elemental Plane of Air. The Grand Caliph's word is law, and to disobey his order can be punishable by death. As a true primary genie, he can grant a wish, and he does so to those he deems deserving. Traits Elemental Demise. If the djinni dies, its body disintegrates into a warm breeze, leaving behind only equipment the djinni was wearing or carrying. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the djinni fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The djinni has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Greater Spell Penetration. When the djinni casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The djinni makes three Mace attacks. Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) lightning or thunder damage (djinni's choice) and the target can't take reactions until the end of the djinni's next turn. Create Whirlwind. A 10-foot-radius, 60-foot-tall cylinder of swirling air magically forms on a point the djinni can see within 120 feet of it. The whirlwind lasts as long as the djinni maintains concentration (as if concentrating on a spell). Any creature but the djinni that enters the whirlwind must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or be restrained by it. The djinni can move the whirlwind up to 60 feet as an action, and creatures restrained by the whirlwind move with it. The whirlwind ends if the djinni loses sight of it. A creature can use its action to free a creature restrained by the whirlwind, including itself, by succeeding on a DC 23 Strength check. If the check succeeds, the creature is no longer restrained and moves to the nearest space outside the whirlwind. Spellcasting. The djinni casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21): At will: create food and water (can create wine instead of water), detect evil and good, detect magic, thunderwave, tongues, wind walk (as an action) 3/day each: conjure elemental (air elemental only, as an action), creation (as an action), dispel magic, gaseous form, invisibility, major image, plane shift 1/day each: chain lightning, storm of vengeance Teleport. The djinni magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Grant Wish (3/Year). The djinni grants a wish spell to a creature that isn't a genie. In order to work, the djinni must be willing to grant the wish . Unless carefully and properly worded, and if the djinni has good reason to, the djinni will pervert the wish's intent into a literal but undesirable or partial fulfillment. The djinni can't grant a wish purposely to serve its own needs. Legendary Actions The djinni can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The djinni regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Mace. The djinni makes a Mace attack. Teleport. The djinni uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The djinni uses Spellcasting. Tornado Form (Costs 3 Actions). The djinni magically transforms into a violent, twisting tornado and moves up to half its flying speed in a straight line and targets each creature its space it enters without provoking opportunity attacks. Each target must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw. On a failure, the target takes 18 (4d8) bludgeoning damage, 9 (2d8) lightning damage, and 9 (2d8) thunder damage and is flung up 30 feet away from the djinni in a random direction and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes an object, such as a wall or floor, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone. If the saving throw is successful, the target takes half the damage and isn't flung away or knocked prone. The djinni reverts to its true form at the start of the next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Elemental
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

