# Doomsphere

**description**: Urban legends speak of the bodies of adventurers who were unfortunate enough to encounter the ghostly globe of death. Lifeless bodies frozen in fear and anguish, no one can tell how they came to their gruesome ends. Perhaps this spectral beholder passed through their bodies, its necrotic touch corrupting flesh and bone. Or perhaps one look at its pale, abhorrent visage was enough to drain the life out of its victims. Mad Orb of Undeath. A doomsphere is the restless spirit of a beholder that spawned after its death due to a curse or was created by powerful necromantic magic. In extremely rare instances, a beholder that sought lichdom but failed in the ritual would instead return as a doomsphere. The creature retains almost all of its arsenal of abilities, save a few that have changed due to undeath. Most, but not all, tend to become insane after this ghastly reincarnation. The doomsphere continues to “live” beyond death as the vile xenophobic beholder it once was, only far more dangerous and more isolated this time and adventurers know better than to invade its old stomping grounds, which it haunts to this day. A Doomsphere's Lair A doomsphere’s central lair is usually a large, spacious cavern that is enclosed and has no physical access. A doomsphere encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP). Lair Actions When fighting inside its lair, a beholder can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the beholder can take one lair action to cause one of the following effects: A 50-foot square area of ground within 120 feet of the doomsphere becomes shadowy and gloomy; that area is difficult terrain until initiative count 20 on the next round. Each creature that starts its turn in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and can't regain hit points until the end of the doomsphere's next turn. Walls within 120 feet of the doomsphere sprout grasping appendages until initiative count 20 on the round after next. Each creature of the doomsphere’s choice that starts its turn within 15 feet of such a wall must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be grappled. Escaping requires a successful DC 17 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. A rotting eye opens on a solid surface within 60 feet of the doomsphere. One random eye ray of the doomsphere shoots from that eye at a target of the doomsphere’s choice that it can see. The eye then closes and disappears. Regional Effects The regional effects of a doomsphere are identical to that of a Beholder (MM, pg. 27). Traits Antimagic Cone. The doomsphere's central eye creates an area of antimagic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 150-foot cone. At the start of each of its turns, the doomsphere decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. The area works against the doomsphere's own eye rays. Ethereal Sight. The doomsphere can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa. Incorporeal Movement. The doomsphere can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Unusual Nature. The doomsphere doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Withering Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d8 + 2) necrotic damage. Eye Rays. The doomsphere shoots three of the following magical eye rays at random (roll three d10s, and reroll duplicates), choosing one to three targets it can see within 120 feet of it: 1. Chill Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d8) cold damage, its speed is reduced by 10 feet, and has disadvantage on attack rolls until the end of its next turn. This ray has no effect on creatures immune to cold damage. 2. Paralyzing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 3. Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 4. Slowing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target's speed is halved for 1 minute. In addition, the creature can't take reactions, and it can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 5. Enervation Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 6. Telekinetic Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or the doomsphere moves it up to 30 feet in any direction. It is restrained by the ray's telekinetic grip until the start of the doomsphere's next turn or until the doomsphere is incapacitated. If the target is an object weighing 300 pounds or less that isn't being worn or carried, it is moved up to 30 feet in any direction. The doomsphere can also exert fine control on objects with this ray, such as manipulating a simple tool or opening a door or a container. 7. Exhaustion Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 level of exhaustion. 8. Withering Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature ages 1d4 x 10 years. The aging effect can be reversed with a greater restoration spell, but only within 24 hours of it occurring. 9. Disintegration Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 45 (10d8) force damage. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, its body becomes a pile of fine gray dust. If the target is a Large or smaller nonmagical object or creation of magical force, it is disintegrated without a saving throw. If the target is a Huge or larger object or creation of magical force, this ray disintegrates a 10-foot cube of it. 10. Death Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 55 (10d10) necrotic damage. The target dies if the ray reduces it to 0 hit points. Etherealness. The doomsphere enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can't affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Legendary Actions The doomsphere can take 3 legendary actions, using the options listed below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The doomsphere regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Antimagic Cone. The doomsphere directs which way the cone faces and decides whether the cone is active. Eye Ray. The doomsphere uses one random eye ray. Reactions Redirect Antimagic Cone. When the doomsphere sees a creature within 150 feet cast a spell, the doomsphere activates its antimagic cone and points it at the creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

