# Doom Blossom

**description**: The doom blossom is a carnivorous plant that resembles a giant orchid. It has four 3-foot diameter star-shaped magenta-colored flowers with a beautiful overlay of dark burgundy-colored patterns on its petals and sepals. Each flower is a horrid mouth lined with sharp, needle-like teeth that drip toxic venom. A fully-grown specimen reaches a height of 9 feet, with tendril-like roots extending up to 10 feet from the base of its 4-foot diameter stem. Adaptable Hunter. The doom blossom is highly adaptable and can live in almost all climates except cold and arid extremes. It thrives in tropical jungles, but others can be found in temperate forests and swamps, and semi-desert regions near the coast and tundra. The doom blossom roots itself near animal trails, footpaths, and riverbanks, where it can wait patiently for prey. Spores of Doom. When the doom blossom senses prey nearby, it releases poisonous spores. When breathed in by a creature, the spores' toxins instantly cause nerve damage and compels the victim to approach the plant, sending it to its doom. Once a target is within reach, the doom blossom attacks with its root tendrils, snaring the prey and pulling it close where its dreaded flowers can finish it off with its venomous bites. Once the prey is slain, the doom blossom tears and dismembers the corpse with its tentacles and teeth into bite-sized chunks of meat that it can swallow. The doom blossom purposely leaves some of the corpse's remains to rot and fester, not just to add nutrients to the soil which the plant still needs, but to attract the attention of scavenging animals that it can prey on. Traits False Appearance. If the doom blossom is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the doom blossom move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the doom blossom is animate. Actions Multiattack. The doom blossom uses Pheromones, if available. It then makes four melee attacks, any number of which can be Bite or Root Tendril attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Tendril. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 12) and pulled 5 feet toward the doom blossom. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and doom blossom can automatically hit the target with its Tendril attack. The doom blossom has 6 tendrils, each of which can only grapple one target. Each tendril can be attacked (AC 10; 10 hit points; immunity to psychic damage). Destroying a tendril deals no damage to the doom blossom, which can use an action to grow a replacement tendril. Pheromones (1/Day). A 60-foot radius cloud of pheromones extends from the doom blossom and lingers in the air for 1 minute. These pheromones can go around corners and they have no effect on Constructs, Elementals, Plants, or Undead. Each other creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed until the start of its next turn. While charmed, the creature tries to get as close to the doom blossom as possible, using its actions to Dash until it is within 5 feet of the doom blossom. A moderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses the cloud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at least 20 miles per hour) disperses it after 1 round.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

