# Doppelixir

**description**: When the flask of purple liquid is moved, the liquid froths and spins, then a hand forms and shoots out from the flask. The alchemist Nurb Nissikad sought to produce a universal potion, which allowed the imbiber to choose the potion's effects. To that end, he fed blood from a mimic mixed with magical liquids to a blood ooze (see Creature Codex ). Unfortunately, the creation turned on its creator, escaped into the sewer adjacent to the alchemist's laboratory, and eventually duplicated and spread. Magical Liquid Imitator. An incomplete experiment, doppelixirs can't become just any magical fluid, but their creation allows them to mimic simple alchemical formulas. They use this while hiding in transparent containers to lure prey. If a curious creature moves nearby but doesn't interact with the ooze's container, the doppelixir changes its composition to imitate another liquid to encourage investigation. It also emits a low-level telepathic urge to coax the creature into drinking it. Careful collection of its remains allows someone to use the remains as the liquid it imitates. Blood Hunter. Doppelixirs consumes blood and gain no sustenance from undead or constructs, ignoring such creatures. If a construct or undead attempts to consume the doppelixir, it scuttles away and clings to a nearby ceiling. Amorphous. The doppelixir can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. False Appearance. While the doppelixir remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from the liquid it imitates. Ooze Nature . The doppelixir doesn't require sleep. Spider Climb. The doppelixir can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Actions Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the doppelixir attaches to the target. While attached, the doppelixir doesn't attack. Instead, at the start of each of the doppelixir's turns, the target loses 10 (2d6 + 3) hp due to blood loss. The doppelixir can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its movement. It does so after it drains 20 hp of blood from its target or the target dies. A creature, including the target, can use its action to detach the doppelixir by succeeding on a DC 13 Strength check. Telepathic Urge . The doppelixir mentally urges one creature it can see within 60 feet of it to attempt to drink it. The target must succeed on a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 minute. While charmed, the target must move on its turn toward the doppelixir by the safest available route, trying to get within 5 feet of the doppelixir to drink it. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the doppelixir attacks the target, the effect also ends. If the target attempts to drink it, the doppelixir can use a reaction to make one Slam attack with advantage against the target. If the target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the doppelixir's Telepathic Urge for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Imitative Liquid. The doppelixir imitates one common or uncommon potion, oil, or other alchemical substance until it uses this bonus action again to end it or to imitate a different liquid. If the doppelixir takes no acid, fire, or poison damage on the round it is slain, a creature can collect its remains, which can be used as the liquid it was imitating before it died.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Ooze
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

