# Dracotaur Priest of Tiamat

**description**: Dracotaurs The dracotaur is a large, 7-foot tall creature with the upper torso, arms, and head of a reptilian humanoid, and the lower body of a wingless dragon with a long spiked tail. Tough scales cover its body, with the scales' color ranging from green, brown, and red. A crimson or purple dorsal crest runs from the top of its head down to its spine. The dracotaur's powerful tail is prehensile and is used by the creature in combat like a spiked flail. Exceptional Warriors. Dracotaurs are incapable of showing compassion and expect none in return from their opponents. They fear and respect power above anything else and consider a warrior's worth based on its raw brute strength and magical ability. They are master strategists and use their numbers, ranged abilities, and magic to overwhelm their enemies. Before they charge into battle with their pikes, they break enemy ranks by spitting globs of saliva that ignite when exposed to air and explode upon impact, spraying fire to other creatures within the immediate vicinity of its target. Dragon Soldiers. Dracotaurs are often encountered in the company of dragons and other reptilians. They bully and enslave bullywugs, firenewts, gatorfolk, kobolds, and lizardfolk, and they serve powerful dragonborns, nagas, and yuan-ti as mercenaries. Dracotaurs consider chromatic dragons to be demigods and are often willing to offer their lives in servitude to them. They make forays into civilized settlements to capture slaves and plunder treasure that will be offered to their dragon master. Tribes of Tiamat. Dracotaurs lead a nomadic lifestyle and rarely stay in one place for too long. Most tribes number less than 30, comprised chiefly of warriors and archers, led by a chieftain who keeps a retinue of priests, shamans, and war casters. Some dracotaur tribes also occupy ancient ruins, using the site as a worship place to chromatic dragons and to Tiamat, who they see as the one true god. While they dislike being in the presence of creatures that aren't dragons or reptilians, they have been known to tolerate working with nonreptilian members of the Cult of the Dragon and the Church of Tiamat. Ruthless Predators. Dracotaurs consider bariaurs and centaurs as sport, and the thought of devouring the flesh of such creatures is enough to drive dracotaurs into a frenzy. They hate and hunt metallic dragons and other creatures that seek to oppose the dominance of chromatic dragons. Dracotaurs can live anywhere but they prefer mountainous regions with warm or tropical climates. Traits Charge. If the dracotaur moves at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with its Pike on the same turn, the target takes an extra 5 (1d10) piercing damage. Actions Multiattack. The dracotaur makes three melee attacks: one with its Pike, one with its Bite, and one with its Tail. Pike. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 2 (1d4) piercing damage. Spellcasting. The dracotaur casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks): At will: poison spray (2d12), sacred flame (2d8), thaumaturgy 1/day each: absorb elements, dispel magic, dragon's breath, fear, glyph of warding, gust of wind, lightning bolt Spit Fire (Recharge 6). The dracotaur spits fire at a point within 30 feet of it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 23 (5d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Boon of Tiamat (3/Day). The dracotaur grants a + 5 bonus to an attack roll made by an allied creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The dracotaur can make this choice after the roll is made but before it hits or misses. If the attack hits, it deals an extra 10 (3d6) energy damage of the type chosen by the dracotaur (acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

