# Dracosphinx

**description**: The dracosphinx has the body and limbs of a lion and the head, wings, and tail of a red dragon. It is a calculating, cunning, and narcissistic monster that believes those of its kind are destined to rule over everything else. It craves and hoards treasure just like a red dragon, and relishes playing a battle of wits to demonstrate its perceived intellectual superiority, just like any sphinx. Draconic Trickster. In combat, the dracosphinx let its allies engage first while it keeps itself hidden or invisible. It plans its actions and chooses its targets carefully before it strikes. While it prefers to use spells, it won't hesitate to maul a foe with its fangs and claws if it won't put itself in any danger. If hard-pressed or it sees an opportunity to hit multiple targets, it will use its powerful fire breath attack. If the dracosphinx recognizes it is losing the fight, it will try to escape or negotiate its way out of it. Secret Lairs. Dracosphinxes make their lairs in great caverns located within high desert mountains and volcanoes or deep within the ruins of sunken temples and pyramids. The dracosphinx always keeps its lairs hidden by illusions and protected by various magical traps. Monstrous Allies. It is not uncommon for dracosphinxes to have kobolds, lizardfolk, dracotaurs, and minotaurs as minions. Some dracosphinxes have been known to work with the Cult of the Dragon and the Church of Tiamat, serving as both guardian and advisor. Sphinxes Not all sphinxes are divine guardians tasked to guard gods' treasures. Some sphinxes, like the canisphinx, crocosphinx, dracosphinx, luposphinx, taurusphinx, and the threskisphinx, are free to do as they please. They sometimes work as mercenaries, offering their services to powerful entities. Traits Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Magic Weapons. The sphinx's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The sphinx makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The sphinx casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, mind sliver (2d6), minor illusion 1/day each: charm person, counterspell, fear,* greater invisibility,* major image,* mislead,* phantasmal force,* phantasmal killer* Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The sphinx exhales fire in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 49 (14d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Displacement (Recharges after the Sphinx Casts an Illusion Spell of 1st Level or Higher*). The sphinx projects an illusion that makes the sphinx appear to be standing in a place a few inches from its actual location, causing any creature to have disadvantage on attack rolls against the sphinx. The effect ends if the sphinx takes damage, it is incapacitated, or its speed becomes 0. Legendary Actions The sphinx can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The sphinx regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw Attack. The sphinx makes one Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The sphinx magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The sphinx uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity (Dragon)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

