# Dracotaur Chieftain

**description**: Dracotaurs The dracotaur is a large, 7-foot tall creature with the upper torso, arms, and head of a reptilian humanoid, and the lower body of a wingless dragon with a long spiked tail. Tough scales cover its body, with the scales' color ranging from green, brown, and red. A crimson or purple dorsal crest runs from the top of its head down to its spine. The dracotaur's powerful tail is prehensile and is used by the creature in combat like a spiked flail. Exceptional Warriors. Dracotaurs are incapable of showing compassion and expect none in return from their opponents. They fear and respect power above anything else and consider a warrior's worth based on its raw brute strength and magical ability. They are master strategists and use their numbers, ranged abilities, and magic to overwhelm their enemies. Before they charge into battle with their pikes, they break enemy ranks by spitting globs of saliva that ignite when exposed to air and explode upon impact, spraying fire to other creatures within the immediate vicinity of its target. Dragon Soldiers. Dracotaurs are often encountered in the company of dragons and other reptilians. They bully and enslave bullywugs, firenewts, gatorfolk, kobolds, and lizardfolk, and they serve powerful dragonborns, nagas, and yuan-ti as mercenaries. Dracotaurs consider chromatic dragons to be demigods and are often willing to offer their lives in servitude to them. They make forays into civilized settlements to capture slaves and plunder treasure that will be offered to their dragon master. Tribes of Tiamat. Dracotaurs lead a nomadic lifestyle and rarely stay in one place for too long. Most tribes number less than 30, comprised chiefly of warriors and archers, led by a chieftain who keeps a retinue of priests, shamans, and war casters. Some dracotaur tribes also occupy ancient ruins, using the site as a worship place to chromatic dragons and to Tiamat, who they see as the one true god. While they dislike being in the presence of creatures that aren't dragons or reptilians, they have been known to tolerate working with nonreptilian members of the Cult of the Dragon and the Church of Tiamat. Ruthless Predators. Dracotaurs consider bariaurs and centaurs as sport, and the thought of devouring the flesh of such creatures is enough to drive dracotaurs into a frenzy. They hate and hunt metallic dragons and other creatures that seek to oppose the dominance of chromatic dragons. Dracotaurs can live anywhere but they prefer mountainous regions with warm or tropical climates. Traits Charge. If the dracotaur moves at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with its Greataxe on the same turn, the target takes an extra 6 (1d12) slashing damage. Marshal Allies. Unless the dracotaur is incapacitated, it and creatures of its choice within 30 feet of it have advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Actions Multiattack. The dracotaur makes three melee attacks: one with its Greataxe or Javelin, one with its Bite, and one with its Tail. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 2 (1d4) piercing damage. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage. Spit Fire (Recharge 6). The dracotaur spits fire at a point within 30 feet of it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 31 (7d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. War Cry (1/Day). Each creature of the dracotaur's choice that is within 30 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by War Cry gain advantage on attack rolls until the start of the dracotaur's next turn. All other creatures within 30 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by War Cry must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the dracotaur's next turn. The dracotaur can then make one attack as a bonus action. Reactions Directed Strike (3/Day). When a creature the dracotaur can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll, and the creature can hear the dracotaur, the dracotaur grants advantage to that roll. Legendary Actions The dracotaur can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dracotaur regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The dracotaur moves up to half its speed. Attack. The dracotaur makes a melee or ranged attack. Tactical Command. The dracotaur targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the dracotaur, the target can use its reaction to make one melee attack, move up to its speed, or move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

