# Dracusa

**description**: A Little History Chlorothra has sired many offspring in the centuries he has traveled the land. One of them was from a forbidden tryst with an elven maiden with a talent for sculpture. The result was Dracusa, a half-dragon elf, an equally talented sculptress, but with a jealous streak larger than Chlorothra’s hoard. Dracusa spent many years seeking her “father,” but when she finally arrived at the Dragon’s Maw, Chlorothra had already settled down with a matron dragon, who recently gave birth to a fine clutch of wyrmlings. Dracusa was displeased that she was not the focus of Chlorothra’s attention, after all the effort she went through to find him. It led to a confrontation with the matron dragon. Dracusa was able to slip her an elixir of petrification , and took great satisfaction watching the matron slowly embrace a stony fate. But in the moments during the transformation, the matron dragon was able to utter a curse on Dracusa. During her many centuries the matron had made powerful infernal allies, and one happened to grant her wish. Dracusa was transformed into a mockery of herself. Gone was the last shred of elven beauty, replaced with the horrid form and visage of a medusa. In a fit of rage, she destroyed the petrified matron dragon. Chlorothra took pity on his daughter and, despite her act of hatred, granted her solace in his lair. Although he is unable to gaze upon her face, instead he sees her beauty and admiration through the sculptures that adorn her stone garden. The monstrosity in front of you is a twisted mockery of a dragon and a great serpent. Its lower quarters are that of a green-black snake clad in fine, smooth scales. Its upper body is that of a curvaceous female humanoid covered with thicker bright green scales. She wears a bright metal breastplate. Her muscled face sports bony protrusions on the chin and cheeks. Her hair is a writhing mass of snakes, parted with a fin-like sail that slides down her neck and back. In her arms she cradles an oak longbow. TRAITS Special Equipment. +2 longbow, +2 arrows (20), breastplate of blinking , potion of fire breath , potion of superior healing . Petrifying Gaze. When a creature that can see Dracusa’s eyes starts its turn within 30 feet of her, Dracusa can force it to make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw if she is not incapacitated and she can see the creature. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is instantly petrified. Otherwise, a creature that fails the save begins to turn to stone and is restrained. The restrained creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn, becoming petrified on a failure or ending the effect on a success. The petrification lasts until the creature is freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see Dracusa until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at Dracusa in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. If Dracusa sees herself reflected on a polished surface within 30 feet of her and in an area of bright light, Dracusa is, due to her curse, affected by her own gaze. Sharpshooter. Dracusa has mastered the longbow. When she attacks with her longbow at long range, she doesn’t suffer disadvantage to the attack roll. Her ranged attacks with the bow ignore half cover and three-quarters cover. Before she makes an attack with her bow, she can choose to take a -5 penalty to the attack roll. If the attack hits, she adds +10 to the attack’s damage. ACTIONS Multiattack. Dracusa makes either three melee attacks—one with her snake hair and two with her dagger—or two ranged attacks with her longbow. Snake Hair. Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) poison damage. Dagger . Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage. +2 Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit : 10 (1d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. With +2 arrows: +12 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit : 12 (1d8 + 8) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. With Sharpshooter trait : +5 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit : 20 (1d8 + 16) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. With Sharpshooter trait and +2 arrow : +7 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit : 22 (1d8 + 18) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. Poison Breath (Recharge 5-6). Dracusa exhales poisonous gas in a 20-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. LEGENDARY ACTIONS Dracusa can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Dracusa regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn Detect . Dracusa makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Longbow Attack . Dracusa makes a single longbow attack. Move . Dracusa can move up to her speed without provoking opportunity attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 19585
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Goodman Games

**book**: Into the Dragon's Maw (FEF 5)

