# Dracotaur Champion of Tiamat

**description**: If a dracotaur tribe has been particularly successful in defeating enemies of Tiamat, the Dragon Queen would sometimes gift them with a champion, a dracotaur born with great strength and blessed with supernatural dragon-like abilities. The Champion of Tiamat serves as the tribe's war leader and the chieftain's general, until at which point the Champion sees itself more deserving of being the chieftain. Dracotaurs The dracotaur is a large, 7-foot tall creature with the upper torso, arms, and head of a reptilian humanoid, and the lower body of a wingless dragon with a long spiked tail. Tough scales cover its body, with the scales' color ranging from green, brown, and red. A crimson or purple dorsal crest runs from the top of its head down to its spine. The dracotaur's powerful tail is prehensile and is used by the creature in combat like a spiked flail. Exceptional Warriors. Dracotaurs are incapable of showing compassion and expect none in return from their opponents. They fear and respect power above anything else and consider a warrior's worth based on its raw brute strength and magical ability. They are master strategists and use their numbers, ranged abilities, and magic to overwhelm their enemies. Before they charge into battle with their pikes, they break enemy ranks by spitting globs of saliva that ignite when exposed to air and explode upon impact, spraying fire to other creatures within the immediate vicinity of its target. Dragon Soldiers. Dracotaurs are often encountered in the company of dragons and other reptilians. They bully and enslave bullywugs, firenewts, gatorfolk, kobolds, and lizardfolk, and they serve powerful dragonborns, nagas, and yuan-ti as mercenaries. Dracotaurs consider chromatic dragons to be demigods and are often willing to offer their lives in servitude to them. They make forays into civilized settlements to capture slaves and plunder treasure that will be offered to their dragon master. Tribes of Tiamat. Dracotaurs lead a nomadic lifestyle and rarely stay in one place for too long. Most tribes number less than 30, comprised chiefly of warriors and archers, led by a chieftain who keeps a retinue of priests, shamans, and war casters. Some dracotaur tribes also occupy ancient ruins, using the site as a worship place to chromatic dragons and to Tiamat, who they see as the one true god. While they dislike being in the presence of creatures that aren't dragons or reptilians, they have been known to tolerate working with nonreptilian members of the Cult of the Dragon and the Church of Tiamat. Ruthless Predators. Dracotaurs consider bariaurs and centaurs as sport, and the thought of devouring the flesh of such creatures is enough to drive dracotaurs into a frenzy. They hate and hunt metallic dragons and other creatures that seek to oppose the dominance of chromatic dragons. Dracotaurs can live anywhere but they prefer mountainous regions with warm or tropical climates. Traits Charge. If the dracotaur moves at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with its Greatsword on the same turn, the target takes an extra 6 (1d12) slashing damage. Actions Multiattack. The dracotaur makes three melee attacks: one with its Greatsword, one with its Bite, and one with its Tail. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage, or 16 (2d6 + 9) slashing damage while raging. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage, or 13 (1d8 + 9) while raging. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, or 12 (1d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage while raging, plus 2 (1d4) piercing damage. Spit Fire (Recharge 6). The dracotaur spits fire at a point within 30 feet of it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Tiamat's Breath (1/Day). The dracotaur chooses an energy type from acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison. The dracotaur exhales energy of the chosen type in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) damage of the chosen damage type on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Rage (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The dracotaur enters a rage. The rage lasts for 1 minute or until the dracotaur is incapacitated. While raging, the dracotaur gains the following benefits: The dracotaur has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. When it makes a melee weapon attack, the dracotaur gains a +4 bonus to the damage roll (included in the attack). The dracotaur has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. Legendary Actions The dracotaur can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dracotaur regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The dracotaur moves up to half its speed. Frightful Glare. The dracotaur turns its gaze toward one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to dracotaur's Frightful Glare for the next 24 hours. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dracotaur makes a melee or ranged attack. Tail Sweep (Costs 3 Actions). The dracotaur swings its tail, and every creature within 10 feet of it must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed saving throw, a creature takes 8 (1d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, or 12 (1d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage while raging, plus 2 (1d4) piercing damage. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

