# Dragonling

**description**: I did mein best to downplay ze greed tendencies but zese adorable drakes just kan’t help zemselves. If you need ein hot töddy or kold beer in a giffy, chuck von a gold or silver koin und vatch it get to vurk! — Humperdink, Hot Chocolate Aficionado Type : Dragon Creature Component : Any dragon Bonus Tamer Improvement : Growth I and +2 Hit Dice Like a dragon, but a little less greedy and a little more pliant, dragonlings are Humperdink’s attempt at retaining a dragon’s useful characteristics and limiting the more… tyrannical ones. Able to shift its makeup depending on the metals to which it is exposed, the dragonling is an adaptable, if distractable, companion. If any of the dragonling’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the dragonling’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the dragonling’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the dragonling the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Growth I Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Passive (companion) The dragonling’s size increases to Small and its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its bite attack increases to a d8 . The dragonling gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Harden I Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The dragonling gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Breath Weapon I Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the dragonling can unleash a torrent of elemental energy. Each creature in an area must make a saving throw, taking 17 ( 5d6 ) damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The area, damage type, and saving throw depend on the dragonling’s affinity (see its Metallic Character trait): Copper. A 5-foot-wide , 30-foot-long line that requires a Dexterity saving throw and deals acid damage. Gold. A 20-foot cone that requires a Dexterity saving throw and deals fire damage. Magnetite. A 20-foot cone that requires a Dexterity saving throw and deals piercing damage. Silver. A 20-foot cone that requires a Constitution saving throw and deals cold damage. After the dragonling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the dragonling’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, this action’s damage increases to 24 ( 7d6 ). Multiattack Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the dragonling can make two bite attacks. Growth II Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type : Passive (companion) The dragonling’s size increases to Medium and its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its bite attack increases from a d8 to a d10 . Blindsight Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The dragonling gains blindsight to a range of 15 feet . Harden II Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer, Harden I Type : Passive (companion) The dragonling gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. This improvement is in addition to the bonus from Harden I. Breath Weapon II Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Breath Weapon I Type : Active (action) The damage of the dragonling’s Breath Weapon action increases to 31 ( 9d6 ), the area of the cones increases to 30 feet , and the length of the line increases to 90 feet . The dragonling gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the dragonling’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the Breath Weapon’s damage increases to 42 ( 12d6 ). Growth III Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Growth II Type : Passive (companion) The dragonling’s size increases to Large and its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its bite attack increases from a d10 to 2d6 . Wing Attack Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the dragonling can beat its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragonling must succeed on a Strength saving throw ( DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the dragonling’s Strength modifier) or take bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone . The damage equals 4d6 plus the dragonling’s Strength modifier. Creatures larger than the dragonling automatically succeed on this saving throw. The dragonling can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

