# Dragonroot Tree

**description**: The mighty dragonroot tree is one of the most dangerous carnivorous plants one can encounter. It resembles a 24-foot tall kapok tree with a 10-foot diameter trunk. Its branches form a thick crown of foliage that can reach 40 feet in diameter. Hanging from its branches are over a dozen 1-foot diameter sweet-smelling fruits that resemble yellow-green watermelons. Six giant 20-foot long buttress roots extend from the base of its trunk. Each of these serpentine roots ends in a dragon-like maw filled with sharp wooden tusk-like protrusions that appear to serve as its teeth. Each of these teeth drips deadly venom. Ambush Hunter. The dragonroot tree is a patient predator. It remains still with the tail-end of its roots lying half-buried in the earth. Attracted to the sweet aroma of its fruits, animals and other creatures unfamiliar with the dreaded dragonroot tree approach it. Once a prey is within reach, the dragonroots burst from the ground and attack it. Like crocodiles fighting over food, the dragonroots' jaws clamp over the target, pull, and shred it into pieces. Usually, the prey is instantly killed from the bites alone. Those that survive the initial onslaught eventually succumb to the dragonroot's toxic venom. Fruits from the Poisonous Tree. The dragonroot tree can utilize its noxious seed pods like explosive grenades. Once per turn, it can detach and lob one of its seed pods at a point within 60 feet of it. Upon hitting the ground, the seed pod bursts in a greenish cloud of toxic spores. Those that succumb to the poison reel from the intense pain and agony brought about by toxins attacking their lungs and nervous system. Top Predator. Dragonroot trees are rare and can only be found in temperate and tropical forests, savannahs, jungles, and swamps. Dragonroot trees seldomly associate with other creatures, treating almost everything that moves as prey. Only the most powerful of druids and fey such as malignos have been able to influence and control these creatures. Traits False Appearance. If the dragonroot tree is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the dragonroot tree move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the dragonroot tree is animate. Actions Multiattack. The dragonroot tree makes three Bite attacks. It can use Seed Pod in place of one attack, if available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the dragonroot tree can automatically hit the target with its Bite attack. The dragonroot tree has six roots, each of which can make one Bite attack. Each root can be attacked (AC 16; 50 hit points; immunity to psychic damage). Destroying a root deals no damage to the dragonroot tree, which can regrow a replacement root in 24 hours. Seed Pod (Recharge 5-6). The dragonroot tree lobs one of its seed pods at a point within 30 feet of it. The seed pod explodes and releases toxic spores. Each creature in a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. Until this poison ends, a creature is incapacitated and takes 9 (2d8) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Plants and creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

