# Dragonleaf Tree

**description**: The dragon-headed leaves of these oak trees sometimes rustle despite the lack of wind, betraying a hint of their draconic power. Gifts among Dragons. These magnificent trees are imbued with some characteristics of their draconic masters. While most groves consist of only one type of dragonleaf tree, dragons sometimes make gifts of them to cement a pact or as a show of fealty. The dragon giving the tree relinquishes command of the plant as part of the deal. This accounts for mixed groves belonging to especially powerful dragon lords. Silent Guardians. Dragonleaf trees use fairly simple tactics to deter potential intruders. They remain motionless or allow the breeze to jostle their leaves to appear inconspicuous. Once enough targets enter the grove, the trees fire razor sharp leaves at or breathe on their targets, adjusting their position to make better use of their weapons. Long Memories. Dragonleaf trees live up to 1,000 years. They stand 15 feet tall and weigh 3,000 lb, but ancient specimens can reach heights of 45 feet. Growing a new dragonleaf tree requires a cutting from an existing tree at least 50 years old, which the tree’s master imbues with power, sacrificing the use of its breath weapon for a month. While this time barely registers on a dragon’s whole lifespan, it still carefully considers the creation of a new tree, for fear that others might discover its temporary weakness. Dragonleaf Trees in Midgard The finest druidic minds in the Mharoti Empire created these trees for the draconic lords of the land. Once the druids had shown the dragons the secret of the tree’s creation they were slain, so that the secret would not spread. A handful of human and kobold gardeners know how to tend them and make them thrive, but little more. Traits Loyal to Dragon Master: A dragonleaf tree only follows commands from its designated master (or from any creatures to whom the master grants control). It has advantage on saving throws against any charm or compulsion spell or effect. Additionally, the tree has advantage on any saving throw to resist Bluff, Diplomacy, or Intimidate checks made to influence it to act against its masters. Weaknesses: Dragonleaf trees with immunity to fire also have vulnerability to cold, and trees with immunity to cold have vulnerability to fire. Actions Slam: Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., One target. Hit : 58 (10d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Leaves: Ranged Weapon Attack : +3 to hit, range 30/60 ft., One target. Hit : 45 (10d8) slashing damage. Breath Weapon (Recharge 6): A dragonleaf tree can issue forth a breath weapon from its leaves appropriate to the dragon it honors. The creature’s breath weapon deals 49 (14d6) damage, or half damage to targets that make a successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. A black, copper, or green tree breathes a 60-foot line of acid; a blue or bronze tree breathes a 60-foot line of lightning; a brass, gold, or red tree breathes a 30-foot cone of fire; and a silver or white tree breathes a 30-foot cone of cold.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: plant
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

