# Dragon, Young Prismatic

**description**: With a multicolored hide and wings with multifaceted panes, this dragon stands over an array of chaotic crystals. Light gleams off the dragon's hide and pours through its wings in a dizzying display. Prismatic dragons bring light and color to the otherwise dark and gray underworld. They consume minerals for sustenance, making them relatively harmless as far as their appetites go, unless they encounter creatures loaded with gems and jewels. Even then, they may negotiate for the treats, and canny explorers discover worthless crystals satisfy the dragons just as much as valuable jewels. Resplendent Flightlessness. Like many dragons, prismatic dragons possess wings, but they can't sustain flight with their wings. Prismatic dragon wings have both the appearance and unwieldiness of stained glass. Fortunately, the dragons have no need to fly in most of their domain and their razor-sharp claws give them strong purchase to climb. The dragons' wings have a greater purpose than aesthetics—though they are vain about their appearance—because the dragons can tilt their wings to dazzle opponents to the point of blindness. As prismatic dragons age, their bodies shift in coloration from a dusty pink through an ever-expanding panoply of hues, including those invisible to most others. Crystal Groves. Prismatic dragons tend crystals in their lair and in the surrounding territory. These crystal groves exhibit a riot of different shapes, sizes, and colors. Proud of their carefully cultivated collection, prismatic dragons may become incensed when a visitor criticizes any of the crystals or arrangements. Though prismatic dragons coexist peacefully with crystalline monoliths (see Tome of Beasts 2), the dragons harbor jealousy about the monoliths' crystal gardens, and they subtly direct intruders to a monolith's lair in the fervent hope the interlopers damage the other creature's crystal. Gregarious Hosts. Of course, all this beauty serves no purpose if only the prismatic dragon can enjoy it. The dragon often welcomes subterranean guests or explorers from the upper world. It can't promise a comfortable stay for those who have difficulty sleeping on beds of crystals, but it attempts to accommodate food and drink requests within its means. This hospitality ends at undead creatures and conquest-driven groups. A prismatic dragon especially loathes cave dragons (see Tome of Beasts ) and strives to eradicate the crystal-destroying pests if they move into the dragon's territory. Actions Multiattack . The prismatic dragon makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. Light Beam (Recharge 5-6) . The prismatic dragon emits a beam of white light in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting . The prismatic dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: dancing lights 3/day each: charm person, color spray 1/day: prismatic spray

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

