# Dragon, Mithral, Adult

**description**: Mithral dragons are wise and learned, and are legendary peacemakers and spellcasters. They pursue their own interests when not called to settle disputes. Glimmering Champions. Light glints off a mithral dragon’s glossy scales, shining silver-white, and its tiny wings fold flush against its body—but open like a fan to expose shimmering, diaphanous membranes. Its narrow head, with bare slits for its eyes and nostrils, ends in a slender neck. The dragon’s sleek look continues into its body and a mithral dragon’s impossibly thin frame makes it look extremely fragile. Rage in Youth. Younger mithral dragons raid and pillage as heavily as any chromatic dragon, driven largely by greed to acquire a worthy hoard—though they are less likely to kill for sport or out of cruelty. In adulthood and old age, however, they are less concerned with material wealth and more inclined to value friendship, knowledge, and a peaceful life spent in pursuit of interesting goals. Peacemakers. Adult and older mithral dragons are diplomats and arbitrators by temperament (some dragons cynically call them referees), enjoying bringing some peace to warring factions. Among all dragons, their strict neutrality and ability to ignore many attacks make them particularly well suited to these vital roles. Mithral Dragons in Midgard Mithral dragons are rebellious dragons who once sought to make peace between chromatic and metallic dragons. Having failed in that, they declared themselves neutral and seek out opportunities to make peace elsewhere—they are the only dragons that advocate against the perpetual war of the Dragon Empire, and they occasionally serve as mercenaries against the Mharoti. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day): If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Innate Spellcasting: The dragon’s innate spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: tongues 5/day each: dispel magic, enhance ability Spellcasting: The dragon is a 6th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). It requires no material components to cast its spells. The dragon has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): acid splash, light, mage hand, prestidigitation 1st level (4 slots): charm person, expeditious retreat, magic missile, unseen servant 2nd level (3 slots): blur, hold person, see invisibility 3rd level (3 slots): haste, lightning bolt, protection from energy Actions Multiattack: The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., One target. Hit : 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage. On hit,the target loses 4 hit points from bleeding at the start of each of its turns for six rounds unless it receives magical healing. Bleeding damage is cumulative; the target loses 4 hp per round for each bleeding wound it’s taken from a mithral dragon’s claws. Tail: Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., One target. Hit : 17 (2d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence: Each creature of the dragon’s choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s Each creature of the dragon’s choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s Breath Weapon (Recharge 5–6): A mithral dragon can spit a 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide line of metallic shards. Targets in its path take 42 (12d6) magical slashing damage and lose another 8 hit points from bleeding at the start of their turns for 6 rounds; slashing and bleed damage are halved by a successful DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. Only magical healing stops the bleeding before 6 rounds. The shards dissolve into wisps of smoke 1 round after the breath weapon’s use. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Detect: The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack: The dragon makes a tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions): The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: dragon
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

