# Dragon Tooth Warrior

**description**: These skeleton warriors are born from a magical ritual that involves the planting of a dragon’s teeth into soil that has been plowed by one of the Colchis Bulls. Their creation is very rare and has only happened a handful of times throughout history. When the teeth are planted a small army is formed, even if it’s only a few fangs that have been placed into the soil. These skeletons seem to behave like a legion of sorts, always acting together. Although not always to their own benefit, as Jason, the Argonaut, is said to have tricked them into destroying each other when he created them as part of his quest. These skeletons emerge from the ground where the teeth have been planted, fully decked out in armor that reeks with power from the Underworld. They are not weak remains of living beings manipulated by necromancy, but summoned entities brought forth by the strange and mysterious powers of the world. One must not forget that the world and all of its realms are living, eternal entities, just like the gods. Born from Dragons. Despite being undead these warriors are created from draconic bones, as such they inherently possess some of the traits and magic that dragons carry inherently, although in a rather minor scale. Disjointed Unity. A single dragon tooth creates many warriors, but they are not a hive. They will attack their fellow warriors if they believe that they might be a threat to their survival. Unfortunately, these undead warriors are not quite intelligent enough to realize that such a situation is very unlikely. Origin of its Magic The Dragon Tooth Warrior manifests a small portion of the magic of the dragon from which it was created. Resistance, Weapons and Elemental Blast. The Dragon Tooth Warrior gains a connection to the element of the dragon to which the tooth belonged. As such, it only has resistance to that specific element and its additional weapon damage and Elemental Blast ability use the same damage type. Traits Ever Watchful. The warrior has advantage to Initiative rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks. Magic Resistance. The warrior has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The warrior's weapon attacks are magical. Pack Tactics. The warrior has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the warrior's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The warrior makes three weapon attacks. It can replace one weapon attack with an elemental blast. Longsword (One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) damage of the damage type to which the warrior has resistance. Longsword (Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) damage of the damage type to which the warrior has resistance. Spear (One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) damage of the damage type to which the warrior has resistance. Spear (Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) damage of the damage type to which the warrior has resistance. Spear (Thrown). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) damage of the damage type to which the warrior has resistance. Elemental Blast. The warrior exhales destructive energy in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 10 (3d6) damage of the damage type to which the warrior has resistance. Reactions Scales of Protection. The warrior's dragonscale armor flares with protective magic. When the warrior or another creature it can see within 5 feet of it is hit by an attack roll, it can grant a +3 bonus to the target's AC, potentially causing it to miss.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

