# Drake, Shepherd

**description**: A ram-headed dragon is covered with downy off-white scales, and its tufts of curly white fur give it a calming, almost gentle, demeanor. Shepherd drakes are quite distinctive; they have a short, woolly layer of curly fur over downy scales. The head of the drake is blunt-nosed with two thick, backward-curving horns, resembling that of a ram. They are herbivores and have only large blunt teeth. Amiable Shepherds. Shepherd drakes get their name from their tendency for raising and caring for other herbivores, such as goats or sheep. Shepherd drakes are solitary and make their lairs within caves or hollowed-out trees, where they can observe and be near their flocks. Being quite fond of halflings, shepherd drakes often live near halfling villages to trade goods and stories with them. Knowledge as Currency. Shepherd drakes consider stories and anecdotes a more valuable currency than coins or gems. The shepherd drake's true hoard is one of words: a collection of stories, folk tales, and useful practical knowledge, such as remedies and recipes. A shepherd drake's physical possessions tend to be utilitarian. Charge. If the shepherd drake moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits with a ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Speak with Beasts. The drake can communicate with Beasts as if they shared a language. Actions Multiattack. The shepherd drake makes one Ram attack and two Claw attacks. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Charm Animals. The drake charms any number of Beasts with an Intelligence of 3 or less that it can see within 30 feet of it. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 hour. Charmed targets obey the drake's verbal commands. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the drake's Charm Animals for the next 24 hours. Breath Weapons (Recharge 5-6). The drake uses one of the following breath weapons: Calming Breath. The drake breathes a cloud of soothing gas around itself. Each creature within 30 feet of the drake must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or become indifferent about creatures that it is hostile toward within 100 feet of the drake for 1 hour. This indifference ends if the creature is attacked, harmed by a spell, or witnesses any of its allies being harmed. In addition, frightened creatures within 30 feet of the drake are no longer frightened. Protective Roar. The drake releases a roar in a 30-foot cone. Each hostile creature in the area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Each friendly Beast in the area gains 5 (1d10) temporary hp, or 11 (2d10) temporary hp if it is charmed by the drake. Reactions Shepherd's Safeguard. When a Beast within 30 feet of the drake would be hit by an attack, the drake can chirp, and the beast adds 3 to its AC against the attack. To do so, the drake must see the attacker and the Beast.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

