# Dread Boar

**description**: Dread Beasts Dread beasts are hulking undead animals raised by Lutheria, Mistress of Death and Lady of Dreams . These creatures typify both of her domains, as these twisted mockeries of life are nightmarish indeed. Dread beasts engage in few—if any—of the behaviors they did in life and are almost universally driven to slaughter any humanoid they encounter. While most of these creatures lurk in the hidden, barely-trod corners of the world, others conduct nocturnal raids against villages and other civilized communities. After it has been raised, a dread beast continues to rot, creating a nauseating odor that is sometimes pungent enough to poison living creatures unlucky enough to be in its vicinity. Although the creature’s flesh festers and falls away, this process does nothing to diminish its considerable strength. When a dread beast survives long enough, it eventually becomes little more than a skeleton, held together only by the will of powerful dark magic. Monstrous Forms . Dread beasts are typically many times larger than their living counterparts. This gigantism is often due to the fact that dread beasts are frequently created from the remains of legendary mythic beasts. However, others are an amalgamation of multiple mundane animals. For example, many dread wolves have been stitched together from the flesh of entire packs. Tenacious Hunters . Some dread beasts are bound directly as servants of Lutheria and stand as guardians of things that the Titan holds dear. Others behave like revenants, hunting down and slaughtering their killers. Those created from mythic beasts are more likely to exhibit the latter behavior, frequently harassing heroes and adventuring parties. Withering Maws . A dread beast can lash out at its enemies using the necrotic energy that sustains it. A bite from one of these monster drains the life force from its victim, and the resulting wound is highly susceptible to infection—assuming the victim survives the encounter. Dread Boar Usually created from the remains of great boar of legends, dread boar lumber across the plains of the underworld and on the peripheries of civilization. Although still more intelligent than the average mundane boar, great boar are largely stripped of their cunning when they become dread beasts, leaving them husks of their former selves. Dread boar often haunt cemeteries where they desecrate the tombs and grave markers of mortals who have displeased their mistress. Traveling Miasma . The stench that cloaks a dread boar is even stronger than of other dread beasts. This is partly due to the creature’s filthy, gore-caked tusks. Rather than being relegated solely to the creature’s mouth, the necrotic black discharge that makes a dread beast’s bite so deadly oozes continuously over the dread boar’s deadly tusks. Voracious Appetites . Dread boar are driven by an insatiable hunger that is a far greater threat to the civilized world than their murderous tempers. A single dread boar can devour entire fields of crops and herds of livestock in a matter of hours. If left unchecked and allowed to encroach upon humanoid settlements, a dread boar makes short work of all available food stores, leaving the residents to starve. Lutheria sometimes personally sends these creatures to plague prosperous cities she believes have not offered her adequate sacrifices.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 4963
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

