# Dread Onaryx

**description**: One of the oldest of the Elder Evil species, the bat-like onaryx are born predators possessed of both power and prowess that few can match upon battlefield. Theirs is a militant race whose people swell the Ultari Hegemony forces both as rank-and-file soldiers as well as commanding officers and even generals. Onaryx were among the earliest of the evil races to ally themselves with Hegemony against the Bellianic Accord. Fortunately, their constant warfare (even among their peers) has caused both the waxing and waning of their empires over the past millennia, thus preventing them ever posing a unified threat. Arrogantly, many onaryx think of themselves as superior to other races of the Hegemony, including the Ultar, whom they currently serve beneath. Secretly, a handful of the most powerful onaryx elders actively hatch independent plans for overtaking the Hegemony and bending its power to their own designs. Metamorphic Maturity. Onaryx have become an extremely diverse race, and a good many mutate as they age. Few understand why the mutations occur, and a variety of explanations such as sickness and forced genetic alterations have been credited as the cause of the shift. For the most part, they are hideously formed creatures, with strangely jointed bodies that appear almost crumpled beneath thick knots of sinew and muscle. When standing upright, an onaryx can twist its wings alongside its arms so that they fold backwards, making them nearly undetectable. Their legs too are sized similar to those of a human; however, the knees turn slightly outward and its feet are flat, wide and clawed, extending a from its raized ankle. Their mottled flesh has a slightly greasy sheen and few hairs. Coloration ranges from drab grayish-green to ochre and dark brown, with dark stains and blotches that make them difficult to spot in the dark. Nails and teeth are a sickly ochre color stained with umber. Depending on age, they stand between 6 to 18 feet tall. Night-Born. Onayrx prefer the darkness of both night and space and use their uncanny abilities to navigate in complete darkness. They also wield advanced technological weaponry and equipment developed over thousands of years. They speak their own language, as well as Ultari, the official language of the Hegemony. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyIndent, li.BodyCopyIndent, div.BodyCopyIndent {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent Char"; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.BodyCopyIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

