# Dread Mouther

**description**: A massive flood of thick putrescent slime bubbles with a chaotic jumble of mouths and eyeballs. The glop quickly spreads across the ground, roiling and splashing like waves striking angrily against a seawall during a hurricane. The wake of death and destruction that followed the mage wars left thousands of bodies tainted with unknown eldritch energies. The littered wastelands drew the voracious appetites of foul and monstrous scavengers that fed upon the dead, stoking their gluttony and mutating them to immense sizes. The plagues of gibbering mouthers that stalked the wastes were no exception. Dread mouthers amplify every horror of their smaller kin. They even eat other gibbering mouthers as they fuse more and more entities into their deranged consciousness. Children of an Elder God. Many wasteland cults devoted to old gods believe dread mouthers are the holy spawn of an elder god. As part of their ceremonies, cultists bring the creatures living sacrifices and proclaim that absorption into the creature’s consciousness is a supreme blessing. Corpse Feeders. Dread mouthers feed constantly and are drawn to locations such as battlefields and graveyards where they can acquire massive amounts of food with little effort. However, the sounds of war and death draw them out, especially when food supplies are scarce. Dark hordes have attempted to lure the creatures into battle but must remain vigilant as they cannot control who or what the dread mouther targets. TRAITS Aberrant Terrain. The ground in a 15-foot radius around the dread mouther is dough-like difficult terrain. Each creature that starts its turn in that area must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or have its speed reduced to 0 until the start of its next turn. Babbling. The dread mouther unleashes a constant barrage of incoherent babble while it can see any creature and isn’t incapacitated. Each creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the mouther and can hear the babbling must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature cannot take reactions until the start of its next turn, and it rolls a d8 to determine what happens on its current turn. d8 Effect 1–4 The creature becomes frightened of the mouther. 5–6 The creature takes no actions or bonus actions and uses all its movement to move toward the dread mouther in a blank-faced daze. 7–8 The creature falls prone and takes 4d6 psychic damage. ACTIONS Multiattack. The dread mouther makes three Bite attacks and, if it can, uses its Blinding Spittle. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 17 (5d6) piercing damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If this damage kills the target, the dread mouther consumes it. Radiant Spittle (Recharge 5–6). The mouther spits a chemical glob at a point it can see within 20 feet of it. The glob explodes in a blinding flash of light on impact. Each creature within 5 feet of the flash must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) radiant damage and be blinded until the end of the mouther’s next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half damage and is not blinded.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

