# Dreadcrow

**description**: Of all beings that relish in the terror they cause, dreadcrows are among the most foul, embodying the worst fears of those who behold them. A dreadcrow’s body is illusory, constantly changing and shifting to reflect its victims' deepest fears. Yet it rarely relies on this, instead opting to lie in wait, slowly eroding the minds of those who are unfortunate enough to cross it, driving them to madness. Victims often lose their grip on reality—and life—long before laying their eyes on a dreadcrow. If approached too closely, dreadcrows will retreat in darkness, snuffing any chance of seeing their true form, before assaulting the mind of their prey and plunging them into a smothering abyss of terror. The success that the once prosperous Luyarnha knew bred complacency and hubris, cardinal sins that no god would leave unpunished. Dreadcrows are said to be born of this divine retaliation, but in stark contrast to their supposed holy origins, dreadcrows are some of the most aberrant creatures to walk the realms. They terrorize, torture, and torment all, with a sinister preference for the defenseless—newborns or the elderly. Traits Fear Smith. Creatures can’t have advantage on saving throws against the dreadcrow’s effects that cause the frightened condition. While a creature is frightened of the dreadcrow, the creature has disadvantage on Intelligence and Wisdom checks, as the creature’s reality crumbles. Innate Spellcasting. The dreadcrow's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material or verbal components: 3/day each: blind ambush, fear, pass without trace 1/day: circle of death Illusory Horror. The dreadcrow's appearance is an illusion, reflecting the worst fear of the observer. It gains a bonus to its AC equal to its Charisma modifier while it isn’t incapacitated. In addition, when a creature that can see the dreadcrow starts its turn within 30 feet of it, the creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened. A creature that isn't surprised can avert its eyes at the start of its turn to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see the dreadcrow until the start of the creature's next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at the dreadcrow in the meantime, it must immediately make the saving throw. Creatures within 5 feet of the dreadcrow have advantage on this saving throw, as they partially see its true form. Creatures seeing the dreadcrow with truesight ignore this trait’s effects. Magic Resistance. The Dreadcrow has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The dreadcrow makes two attacks with its claws or Devour Fear. It can use Living Nightmare in place of one attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d12 + 3) slashing damage and 5 (1d10) psychic damage. Devour Fear. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) psychic damage. If the target is frightened, the dreadcrow has advantage on the attack roll and regains hit points equal to the damage dealt. Flay Sanity (Recharge 5-6). The dreadcrow creates atrocious illusions that rend sanity. Each creature within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or gain a short-term madness and become frightened for 1 minute. Frightened creatures have disadvantage on this saving throw. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. This action doesn't reveal the dreadcrow if it's hidden. Living Nightmare (Recharges after a Long Rest). The dreadcrow becomes the embodiment of terror for a creature that is frightened of it within 60 feet of it. This unleashes a primal fear within the target, causing the target to go insane. It must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target bellows a scream so powerful that it rips its own vocal cords and it loses the ability to speak. If the target is still frightened of the dreadcrow at the start of the dreadcrow’s next turn and the target can see the dreadcrow, the terror becomes so untenable that it rips out its own eyes, becoming blinded. Bonus Actions Gaze Upon Me. The dreadcrow forces a creature that it can see within 30 feet to look at it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom check or look directly at the Dreadcrow. Reactions Skittering Walk. When a creature moves within 5 feet of the Dreadcrow, the Dreadcrow can move up to 20 feet. Its AC increases by 3 during this movement.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

