# Dreamer's Minor Avatar

**description**: Should a bold soul dare to infiltrate the submerged chapels of the Deep Ones, they would soon discover an unsettling truth. The figures that ornament the watery halls are no statues at all; they are in fact shards of the Slumbering One's power, poised to imbue the world with the incomprehensible gifts of their otherworldly patron. Conjured through the arcane rituals of the Deep Ones, the Dreamer's Minor Avatars are embodiments of their master, made manifest within submerged sanctuaries. Resembling inert statues, these entities endow the Slumbering One’s devout followers with minute portions of the power they ardently seek. These avatars are devoid of thought and emotion, their purpose inscrutable, yet their link to the Slumbering One is undeniable. Meaningless specks of dust erring through the cosmos, devoid of the grandeur of their progenitor, one must wonder if their father is even aware of the existence of such worthless and pathetic effigies. "Our Slumbering Father that lies dormant, may you discover our worthless world; may you sink it beneath your waves; may you grant us a glimpse of your grandeur; guide us home." Traits Aberrant Mind. The avatar can maintain concentration on two spells at the same time. If it loses concentration, it loses both spells. Aberrant Magic. Each time a creature fails a saving throw against a spell cast by the avatar, the creature also gains a short-term madness. Fear Aura. Any creature hostile to the avatar that starts its turn within 30 feet of the avatar must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, unless the avatar is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the avatar's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Gift of Guilt. Whenever a creature damages the avatar, the creature must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be wracked with remorse for its actions and take psychic damage equal to the damage dealt. Innate Spellcasting. The avatar's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). The avatar can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: misty step, sanctuary 3/day each: bludgeoning horror (5th level), color spray (5th level), counterspell (5th level), dominate person, haste, mass healing word, sleep (5th level) 1/day each: hold monster, hypnotic pattern, mass cure wounds, modify memory (9th level), plane shift, wall of force Magic Resistance. The avatar has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sanctified Being. The avatar is permanently under the effect of the sanctuary spell, and attacking, casting spells, and dealing damage doesn't end the spell. Actions Mind Break. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 150 ft., one creature. Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) psychic damage and the target can't take reactions until the start of its next turn. Time Loop. The avatar chooses a creature it can see within 150 feet of it, attempting to force the creature to repeat itself. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Intelligence saving throw or, on its next turn, it is forced to use the same action and bonus action it performed on its previous turn. If the target can’t perform the same action or bonus action (for example casting a spell because it is out of spell slots) it wastes the action and bonus action instead. Bonus actions Gift of Power. The avatar utters a word of power. Allied creatures within 60 feet of the avatar that can hear it gain a power die that can be added to any die roll once before it's expended. The die begins as a d4, but increase to a d8, d10, and finally a d12 each time Gift of Power is used on the creature prior to it expending the die.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: any evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

