# Dread Unicorn

**description**: The dread unicorn is an evil unicorn infused with the fiendish essence of Bane. It is often used as a steed by baneliches, death knights, and powerful blackguards and clerics of Bane. Traits Charge. If the unicorn moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Horn attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Magic Resistance. The unicorn has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The unicorn's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The unicorn makes two attacks: one with its Hooves and one with its Horn. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Horn. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Spellcasting. The unicorn casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: detect evil and good, druidcraft, pass without trace 1/day each: dispel evil and good, entangle, ray of enfeeblement Horn of Death (2/Day). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution. On a failed save, the target takes 24 (7d6) necrotic damage, or half as much damage on a successful save. The damage can't reduce the target's hit points below 1. If the target fails the saving throw, its hit point maximum is reduced for 1 hour by an amount equal to the necrotic damage it took. Any effect that removes a disease allows a creature's hit point maximum to return to normal before that time passes. Teleport (1/Day). The unicorn magically teleports itself and up to three willing creatures it can see within 5 feet of it, along with any equipment they are wearing or carrying, to a location the unicorn is familiar with, up to 1 mile away. Legendary Actions The unicorn can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The unicorn regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Hooves. The unicorn makes one attack with its Hooves. Shadow Shield (Costs 2 Actions). The unicorn creates a wispy cloud of darkness around itself or another target it can see within 60 feet of it. Until the end of the unicorn's next turn, any creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against the target with shadow shield. An attacker is immune to this effect if it doesn't rely on sight, as with blindsight, or can see through illusions, as with truesight. Necrotic Breath (Costs 3 Actions). The unicorn exhales shadowy fire in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 17 (5d6) necrotic damage and can't regain hit points until the start of the unicorn's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

