# Drider Spellcaster

**description**: When a drow shows great promise, Lolth summons it to the Demonweb Pits for a test of faith and strength. Those that pass the test rise higher in the Spider Queen’s favor. Those that fail are transformed into driders—a horrid hybrid of a drow and a giant spider that serves as a living reminder of Lolth’s power. Only drow can be turned into driders, and the power to create these creatures resides with Lolth alone. Scarred for Life. Drow transformed into driders return to the Material Plane as twisted and debased creatures. Driven by madness, they disappear into the Underdark to become hermits and hunters, either wandering alone or leading packs of giant spiders. On rare occasion, a drider returns to the fringes of drow society despite its curse, most often to fulfill some longstanding vow or vendetta from its former life. Drow fear and shun the driders, holding them in lower esteem than slaves. However, they tolerate the presence of these creatures as living representatives of Lolth’s will, and a reminder of the fate that awaits all who fail the Spider Queen. Variant: Drider Spellcasting Driders that were once drow spellcasters might retain their ability to cast spells. Such driders typically have a higher spellcasting ability (15 or 16) than other driders. Further, the drider gains the Spellcasting trait. A drider that was a drow divine spellcaster, therefore, could have a Wisdom of 16 (+3) and a Spellcasting trait. Traits Fey Ancestry : The drider has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put the drider to sleep. Innate Spellcasting : The drider's innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13). The drider can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: • At will: dancing lights • 1/day each: darkness , faerie fire Spellcasting : The drider is a 7th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). The drider has the following spells prepared from the cleric spell list: • Cantrips (at will): poison spray , thaumaturgy • 1st level (4 slots): bane , detect magic , sanctuary • 2nd level (3 slots): hold person , silence • 3rd level (3 slots): clairvoyance , dispel magic • 4th level (2 slots): divination , freedom of movement Spider Climb : The drider can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Sunlight Sensitivity : While in sunlight, the drider has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Web Walker : The drider ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Actions Multiattack : The drider makes three attacks, either with its longsword or its longbow. It can replace one of those attacks with a bite attack. Bite : Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 2 (1d4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. Longsword (One-Handed) : Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage. Longsword (Two-Handed) : Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage. Longbow : Ranged Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit : 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) poison damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Source: MM1
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 2
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Monster Manual

