# Drider Spiderlord

**description**: The cunning spiderlord is a unique drider favored by Lolth. It is able to summon a variety of spiders that do its bidding. The drider also has the ability to wrap its victims with thick webbing, trapping them inside a tough web cocoon. Traits Fey Ancestry. The drider has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put the drider to sleep. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the drider fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spider Climb. The drider can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drider has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Web Walker. The drider ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Actions Multiattack. The drider makes three attacks: either with its Pike or its Longbow. It can replace one of those attacks with a Bite attack or Web Cocoon, if available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. If the target is not immune to poison, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Pike. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 120/600 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) poison damage. Spellcasting. The drider casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: dancing lights 1/day each: darkness, faerie fire Web Cocoon (Recharge 5-6). The drider targets a creature it can see within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the target is restrained by very thick webbing. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 16 Strength check with disadvantage on the roll, bursting the webbing on a success. The webbing can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 15; hp 50; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage). Summon Spider (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The drider summons 2d6 giant wolf spiders or 1d3 giant spiders. The spiders appear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of the drider and acts as its allies. The spiders act right after the drider on the same initiative count and fight until they're destroyed. They remain for 1 hour, until they or the drider dies, or until the drider dismisses them as an action. Legendary Actions The drider can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drider regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Crawl. The drider moves up to half its speed. Command Spider. The drider targets one allied spider it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the drider, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack or move up to its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The drider makes a melee or ranged attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

