# Drow Shadowblade

**description**: Drow shadowblades steal down the dim passages of the Underdark, bound on errands of mayhem. They protect enclaves and Underdark cities from enemies and track down thieves who make off with prized treasures. In the city of Menzoberranzan in the Forgotten Realms, noble houses often employ shadowblades to eliminate rivals from other houses. In communities free of Lolth’s sway, they serve as spies tasked with foiling the plots of that demon lord’s cult. In any role they take on, they move undetected until the moment they attack—and then they are the last thing their victims see. A shadowblade gains their powers over shadow via a ritual in which they kill a shadow demon and mystically prevent it from re-forming in the Abyss, siphoning its essence into themselves. Variant: Demon Summoning Some drow shadowblades have an action that allows them to summon a demon. Summon Shadow Demon (1/Day). The drow attempts to magically summon a shadow demon (see the Monster Manual ) with a 50 percent chance of success. If the attempt fails, the drow takes 5 (1d10) psychic damage. Otherwise, the summoned demon appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of its summoner, acts as an ally of its summoner, and can’t summon other demons. It remains for 10 minutes, until it or its summoner dies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action. Traits Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the drow’s darkvision. Fey Ancestry. The drow has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put the drow to sleep. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drow has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The drow makes three Shadow Sword attacks. One of the attacks can be replaced by a Hand Crossbow attack. The drow can also use Spellcasting to cast darkness . Shadow Sword. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/60 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (7d6 + 5) necrotic damage. Hand Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is also unconscious while poisoned in this way. The target regains consciousness if it takes damage or if another creature takes an action to shake it. Spellcasting. The drow casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: dancing lights , darkness 1/day each: faerie fire , levitate (self only) Bonus Actions Shadow Step. While in dim light or darkness, the drow teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. It then has advantage on the first melee attack it makes before the end of the turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Elf)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

