# Druj Eye

**description**: The sinister druj eye appears as a sickly, almost diseased-looking eyeball with its attached veins trailing behind it. It moves by hovering before flitting about almost unseen to pick off its victims. It has a potent set of spells that can disrupt, perplex, and outright destroy its targets. Creatures foolish enough to be caught by its terrifying gaze are instantly paralyzed, gripped by supernatural fear. Druj A druj is an undead creature who was once a depraved humanoid high priest of a vile deity of death or demon lord (such as Bhaal, Demogorgon, Orcus, Myrkul, Shar, or Vecna). Its life ended before it could achieve its purpose or goals set by its god, dying from a horrific death that nearly resulted in the destruction of its entire body. Its dark god bound the priest's accursed spirit to its remaining body part - a head, gouged eyeball, or dismembered hand, and transformed it into a druj. Agent of Annihilation. Once born, a druj sets out to complete its goals, including eradicating what it now hates above all else - the living, especially the ones that slew its mortal form. No matter what form it takes, a druj's presence and touch can drain the life of the living unfortunate enough to be caught close to it. It is resistant to magic and nonmagical attacks and can see invisible and hidden things and those existing in the Ethereal Plane. It travels only at night as it abhors and avoids daylight. A druj haunts temple ruins, catacombs, crypts, and graveyards, often attracting undead servitors such as skeletons, zombies, ghouls, and wights. Troupe of Doom. A druj is almost often encountered singly. However, a more powerful entity - such as a demon, death knight, or lich, can command a few druj to work together as a team. These dangerous druj groups can be comprised of a head with two eyes, a head accompanied by two claws, or a head with two eyes and two claws. Undead Nature. A druj doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Aura of Annihilation. The druj can activate or deactivate this feature as a bonus action. While active, the aura deals 5 necrotic damage to any creature that ends its turn within 30 feet of the druj. Undead and fiends ignore this effect. Magic Resistance. The druj has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the druj has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a zombie under the druj's control, unless the humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. The druj can have no more than twelve zombies under its control at one time. Terrifying Glare. The druj targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the druj, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be magically frightened for 1 minute. The frightened target is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The druj casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks): At will: animate dead, chill touch (3d8), darkness, silence 1/day each: charm monster, synaptic static, disintegrate

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

