# Druj Head

**description**: The druj head appears as a menacing decapitated head or skull of a humanoid corpse, with faint, greenish necrotic energy emanating from within its eye sockets. Like the druj eye, the druj head moves by hovering, darting in and out of shadows while attacking. The most powerful of its type, the druj head has devastating spells and the ability to unleash a bloodcurdling scream that can terrify those who hear it. Druj A druj is an undead creature who was once a depraved humanoid high priest of a vile deity of death or demon lord (such as Bhaal, Demogorgon, Orcus, Myrkul, Shar, or Vecna). Its life ended before it could achieve its purpose or goals set by its god, dying from a horrific death that nearly resulted in the destruction of its entire body. Its dark god bound the priest's accursed spirit to its remaining body part - a head, gouged eyeball, or dismembered hand, and transformed it into a druj. Agent of Annihilation. Once born, a druj sets out to complete its goals, including eradicating what it now hates above all else - the living, especially the ones that slew its mortal form. No matter what form it takes, a druj's presence and touch can drain the life of the living unfortunate enough to be caught close to it. It is resistant to magic and nonmagical attacks and can see invisible and hidden things and those existing in the Ethereal Plane. It travels only at night as it abhors and avoids daylight. A druj haunts temple ruins, catacombs, crypts, and graveyards, often attracting undead servitors such as skeletons, zombies, ghouls, and wights. Troupe of Doom. A druj is almost often encountered singly. However, a more powerful entity - such as a demon, death knight, or lich, can command a few druj to work together as a team. These dangerous druj groups can be comprised of a head with two eyes, a head accompanied by two claws, or a head with two eyes and two claws. Undead Nature. A druj doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Aura of Annihilation. The druj can activate or deactivate this feature as a bonus action. While active, the aura deals 5 necrotic damage to any creature that ends its turn within 30 feet of the druj. Undead and fiends ignore this effect. Magic Resistance. The druj has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the druj has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 22 (5d8) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a zombie under the druj's control, unless the humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. The druj can have no more than twelve zombies under its control at one time. Spellcasting. The druj casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: animate dead, chill touch (3d8), darkness, silence 1/day each: telekinesis, power word pain, psychic scream Dreadful Scream (Recharge 5-6). The druj emits a bloodcurdling scream. Each creature that is neither a fiend nor an undead within 60 feet of the druj must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to druj's Dreadful Scream for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

