# Dubius

**description**: Twisted horns sprout from the temples of this thin, hunched humanoid. Above its razor-sharp teeth, wide, stricken eyes dart about, taking in everything. Dubius are spawned from a creature's doubt, self-pity, loathing, misery, and despair. A person who revels in dismay and misery may give form to a dubius, literally creating and feeding their own demons. Base and Devious Creatures. Dubius never fight fair. They corner or trap a single victim to feed off of its raw emotions, turning the victim's emotions into powerful attacks; they transform sorrow and self-pity into weapons. Birthed by Tragedy. At times, multiple dubius can spawn in situations where a populace suffers a great humiliation. A proud city that has never bowed to outside conquerors may find itself infested with dozens, possibly hundreds, of dubius when it falls to an enemy, or an enslaved village may give rise to one or two dubuis when taken away in chains. Memory of Shame. When a Humanoid that can see the dubius starts its turn within 30 feet of the dubius, the dubius can force it to make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw if the dubius isn't incapacitated and can see the Humanoid. On a failed save, the Humanoid is frightened for 1 minute. The Humanoid can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the dubius is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a Humanoid's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the Humanoid is immune to the dubius's Memory of Shame for the next 24 hours. Unless surprised, a Humanoid can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the Humanoid does so, it can't see the dubius until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the Humanoid looks at the dubius in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. If a dubius sees itself reflected on a polished surface within 30 feet of it and in an area of bright light, the dubius, due to its unique creation, is affected by its own Memory of Shame. Actions Doubt. The dubius forces a creature it can see within 30 feet of it to recall all its doubts and fears. The target must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature frightened by the dubius has disadvantage on the saving throw. Loathing. The dubius sows distrust and loathing in one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target loathes another creature of the dubius's choice within 30 feet of it and must make one attack against that creature on its next turn, moving to the creature if necessary. On a success, the target distrusts its allies and can't give or receive aid from them on its next turn, including spells and the Help action. Reactions Hesitation. When a creature the dubius can see attacks it, the dubius can force the creature to roll a d6, subtracting the result from the attack roll. If this causes the attack to miss, the attacker is stunned until the start of the dubius's next turn. Self-Pity. If a creature the dubius can see within 30 feet of it regains hp, the dubius regains hp equal to half that amount.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

