# Duergar High Priest

**description**: Duergar high priests are the cruel and insane leaders and overlords of duergar companies, but more often take the role of advisors to the duergar despots. Young duergar high priests prefer to reinforce themselves with magical protection and strength-enhancing spells before entering melee. The elder ones prefer to hang back behind the shield wall and support their kin with protective spells or throw devastating ones at their enemies. Traits Duergar Resilience. The duergar has advantage on saving throws against poison, spells, and illusions, as well as to resist being charmed or paralyzed. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the duergar fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spell Penetration. When the duergar casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Superior Focus. The duergar has advantage on saving throws it makes to maintain its concentration. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The duergar makes two Warhammer attacks and uses Enlarge if it is available. Enlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute, the duergar magically increases in size, along with anything it is wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the duergar is Large, doubles its damage dice on Strength-based weapon attacks (included in the attacks), and makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage. If the duergar lacks the room to become Large, it attains the maximum size possible in the space available. Warhammer. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 11 (2d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage while enlarged. Spellcasting. The duergar casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: mending, poison spray (3d12), sacred flame (3d8), thaumaturgy 2/day each: guiding bolt, hold person, spirit guardians 1/day each: blade barrier, dispel magic, flame strike, mass cure wounds, stoneskin Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The duergar magically turns invisible until it attacks, casts a spell, or uses its Enlarge, or until its concentration is broken, up to 1 hour (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the duergar wears or carries is invisible with it. Bonus Actions Divine Weapon (2/Day). The duergar casts magic weapon or spiritual weapon using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. Wrath of Laduguer. The duergar targets a creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 18 (4d8) psychic damage and becomes frightened until the end of the duergar's next turn. A creature that fails the save by 5 or more is also paralyzed for the same duration. Legendary Actions The duergar can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The duergar regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The duergar makes one weapon attack. Cantrip. The duergar casts poison spray or sacred flame. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The duergar casts dispel magic , guiding bolt , hold person , spirit guardians , or spiritual weapon , if available.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Dwarf)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

