# Duergar Screamer

**description**: A duergar screamer uses sonic energy to grind rock into dust and to hurl invaders to the ground. Duergar architecture is remarkable for its brutalist grandeur. It is not a style I would use for my towers—I prefer gold, gems, and tracery—but I admire the boldness of dwarven stonework. —Mordenkainen Duergar Constructs Creative duergar engineers have built numerous war machines, including some that can be fused with a duergar. Such a duergar-machine hybrid is fueled by the duergar’s psionic energy, and the duergar inside the machine can psychically channel pain into power when attacked. These machines are deployed to assist with construction projects and war. Some duergar bravely volunteer to become hybrids, while other duergar are forced into the fusion by Underdark tyrants. Unless incapacitated, the duergar inside a machine can extricate themself from it over the course of a short rest, completing the process at the rest’s end. Duergar Duergar are dwarves of the deep reaches of the Underdark and other sunless realms. Their personalities and abilities have been deeply impacted by their ancestors’ captivity and torment by mind flayers; they were infused with powerful psionic abilities but also a profound gloom. In some, this strain of sorrow inspires works of grand but melancholic beauty, while in others, it manifests as rage. Like many who dwell in the Underdark, duergar must constantly be on guard against the raids and plots of their neighbors. To this end, duergar warriors fulfill a variety of combat roles, often marrying their fury in battle with their psionic abilities or training dangerous Underdark creatures as mounts. Denigrated by some as joyless, duergar are in fact deeply passionate in all that they do—even if that passion rarely manifests as mirth. They bring an emotional intensity to their lives, whether they’re exploring neighboring tunnels, defending their homes, engaging with their families, or crafting bold new works. The bonds of friendship and kinship are strong, though navigating the inevitable outbursts of frustration and despair is not always easy. Similarly, duergar tend to be very community-minded—in the Underdark, all must cooperate to survive. Among the duergar of the Forgotten Realms, creation is a fiercely passionate process. They tend to favor works that are sturdy and grand, but in a bare, stripped-down fashion that favors geometric forms. The strongholds they design are blocky and stark, and the weapons they forge are blatantly tools of violence. While others may decry their creations as cold and bare of ornamentation to the point of austerity, duergar see them as honoring the materials used and honest about their purpose. The mental power that duergar wield was given to them by illithids. But why would illithids create servants who could turn invisible or grow to ogre size? Most likely because those servants would excel at herding their masters’ other minions. In retrospect, it seems arguable that duergar escaped bondage because their jailers had given them the keys. —Mordenkainen Actions Multiattack. The screamer makes one Drill attack, and it uses Sonic Scream. Drill. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) piercing damage. Sonic Scream. The screamer emits destructive energy in a 15-foot cube. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 11 Strength saving throw or take 7 (2d6) thunder damage and be knocked prone. Reactions Engine of Pain. Immediately after a creature within 5 feet of the screamer hits it with an attack roll, the screamer makes a Drill attack against that creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Construct (Dwarf)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

