# Duergar Stone Guard

**description**: Stone guards are elite troops deployed in small numbers to bolster war bands of regulars or organized into elite strike forces for specific missions. Duergar architecture is remarkable for its brutalist grandeur. It is not a style I would use for my towers—I prefer gold, gems, and tracery—but I admire the boldness of dwarven stonework. —Mordenkainen Duergar Duergar are dwarves of the deep reaches of the Underdark and other sunless realms. Their personalities and abilities have been deeply impacted by their ancestors’ captivity and torment by mind flayers; they were infused with powerful psionic abilities but also a profound gloom. In some, this strain of sorrow inspires works of grand but melancholic beauty, while in others, it manifests as rage. Like many who dwell in the Underdark, duergar must constantly be on guard against the raids and plots of their neighbors. To this end, duergar warriors fulfill a variety of combat roles, often marrying their fury in battle with their psionic abilities or training dangerous Underdark creatures as mounts. Denigrated by some as joyless, duergar are in fact deeply passionate in all that they do—even if that passion rarely manifests as mirth. They bring an emotional intensity to their lives, whether they’re exploring neighboring tunnels, defending their homes, engaging with their families, or crafting bold new works. The bonds of friendship and kinship are strong, though navigating the inevitable outbursts of frustration and despair is not always easy. Similarly, duergar tend to be very community-minded—in the Underdark, all must cooperate to survive. Among the duergar of the Forgotten Realms, creation is a fiercely passionate process. They tend to favor works that are sturdy and grand, but in a bare, stripped-down fashion that favors geometric forms. The strongholds they design are blocky and stark, and the weapons they forge are blatantly tools of violence. While others may decry their creations as cold and bare of ornamentation to the point of austerity, duergar see them as honoring the materials used and honest about their purpose. The mental power that duergar wield was given to them by illithids. But why would illithids create servants who could turn invisible or grow to ogre size? Most likely because those servants would excel at herding their masters’ other minions. In retrospect, it seems arguable that duergar escaped bondage because their jailers had given them the keys. —Mordenkainen Traits Duergar Resilience. The duergar has advantage on saving throws against spells and the charmed, paralyzed, and poisoned conditions. Phalanx Formation. The duergar has advantage on attack rolls and Dexterity saving throws while standing within 5 feet of an ally wielding a shield. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The duergar makes two Shortsword or Javelin attacks. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, or 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage while under the effect of Enlarge. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, or 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage while under the effect of Enlarge. Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The duergar magically turns invisible for up to 1 hour or until it attacks, it forces a creature to make a saving throw, or its concentration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the duergar wears or carries is invisible with it. Bonus Actions Enlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute, the duergar magically increases in size, along with anything it is wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the duergar is Large, doubles its damage dice on Strength-based weapon attacks (included in the attacks), and makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage. If the duergar lacks the room to become Large, it attains the maximum size possible in the space available.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Dwarf)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

