# Duergar Kavalrachni

**description**: Kavalrachni are duergar cavalry trained to fight while riding female steeders (in this book) or other Underdark creatures as mounts. Duergar architecture is remarkable for its brutalist grandeur. It is not a style I would use for my towers—I prefer gold, gems, and tracery—but I admire the boldness of dwarven stonework. —Mordenkainen Duergar Duergar are dwarves of the deep reaches of the Underdark and other sunless realms. Their personalities and abilities have been deeply impacted by their ancestors’ captivity and torment by mind flayers; they were infused with powerful psionic abilities but also a profound gloom. In some, this strain of sorrow inspires works of grand but melancholic beauty, while in others, it manifests as rage. Like many who dwell in the Underdark, duergar must constantly be on guard against the raids and plots of their neighbors. To this end, duergar warriors fulfill a variety of combat roles, often marrying their fury in battle with their psionic abilities or training dangerous Underdark creatures as mounts. Denigrated by some as joyless, duergar are in fact deeply passionate in all that they do—even if that passion rarely manifests as mirth. They bring an emotional intensity to their lives, whether they’re exploring neighboring tunnels, defending their homes, engaging with their families, or crafting bold new works. The bonds of friendship and kinship are strong, though navigating the inevitable outbursts of frustration and despair is not always easy. Similarly, duergar tend to be very community-minded—in the Underdark, all must cooperate to survive. Among the duergar of the Forgotten Realms, creation is a fiercely passionate process. They tend to favor works that are sturdy and grand, but in a bare, stripped-down fashion that favors geometric forms. The strongholds they design are blocky and stark, and the weapons they forge are blatantly tools of violence. While others may decry their creations as cold and bare of ornamentation to the point of austerity, duergar see them as honoring the materials used and honest about their purpose. The mental power that duergar wield was given to them by illithids. But why would illithids create servants who could turn invisible or grow to ogre size? Most likely because those servants would excel at herding their masters’ other minions. In retrospect, it seems arguable that duergar escaped bondage because their jailers had given them the keys. —Mordenkainen Traits Cavalry Training. When the duergar hits a target with a melee attack while mounted, the mount can use its reaction to make one melee attack against the same target. Duergar Resilience. The duergar has advantage on saving throws against spells and the charmed, paralyzed, and poisoned conditions. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The duergar makes two War Pick attacks. War Pick. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) poison damage. Heavy Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, range 100/400 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d10) piercing damage. Shared Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The duergar magically turns invisible for up to 1 hour or until it attacks, it forces a creature to make a saving throw, or its concentration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the duergar wears or carries is invisible with it. While the invisible duergar is mounted, the mount is invisible as well. The invisibility ends early on the mount immediately after it attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Dwarf)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

