# Dullahan

**description**: Dullahans owe their dreadful existence to the Circle of Symbiosis. When one of their own members dares to betray the sacred circle, they are condemned to the grim fate of becoming a dullahan. The transgressor is bound to an ancient stone altar, where, beneath the cold gaze of the moon, their head is severed in an act of macabre justice—yet life doesn’t leave their body. Relentless Huntsmen. Unleashed into the world as a headless harbinger, the newly created dullahan is then merged with an undying steed and tasked with a dark purpose: to hunt. Their prey vary—for some, innocent individuals to be kidnapped from their everyday lives, and others, adversaries of the Circle, marked for death. The Circle's knowledge of their targets is eerily accurate, and so, once the dullahan sets its sightless gaze upon a target, relenting isn’t an option that exists. Scorned by Radiance. The price of transmogrification into a dullahan is steep. The unholy essence that fueled their headless form etches an irreversible mark on their soul. Even when restored to their living state, they bear this cursed taint, which stands in stark opposition to the divine energies that brim in many places of worship. When a dullahan dares to breach the boundaries of these hallowed grounds, their bodies immediately ignite in a roaring blaze, punished by the radiant powers above. Eternal Curse. Should the dullahan weather its gruesome task and pay off the debt of its soul, the Circle takes it upon themselves to decide the creature’s destiny. Some are mercifully put to rest, their spectral existences snuffed out as abruptly as they began. Others, who've shown their penitence throughout their servitude, are deemed worthy of a second chance. These fortunate few are restored to their former state, reinstated as druids in the Circle, but forever marked by the scars of their ordeal. Traits Accursed Beacon. The dullahan knows the exact location of creatures that are under the effect of its spells as long as they are on the same plane of existence. Innate Spellcasting. The dullahan's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). The dullahan can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material or somatic components: At will: bane, brittle bone throw (2d8, 2d4), chill touch (2d8), knock 2/day each: hex (5th level, damage can’t break the dullahan’s concentration), malicious rancor Relentless Advance. The dullahan is unaffected by difficult terrain and can move over water and other liquids. It can't willingly enter consecrated areas such as churches; it takes 22 (4d10) radiant damage at the start of each of its turns while within such an area. Actions Multiattack. The dullahan makes two attacks with its spine whip. Spine Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage and 13 (3d8) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Bonus Actions Cunning Action. The dullahan takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Reactions Maddening Sight. When a creature within 30 feet of the dullahan targets it with an attack or spell, the dullahan can force the creature to gaze into its severed head. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become blinded for 1 minute and gain a short-term madness. A blinded creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the blinded condition on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

