# Durixaviinox

**description**: My rule was glorious, and the dragons, giants, and others who I protected lived prosperous lives. Those that remain—the dead that walk—don’t remember the time that was. They are mindless drones. The lucky ones died ages ago and stayed dead. Durixaviinox Traits Frosted Resistance ( 3 /Day). When Durixaviinox fails a saving throw, he can succeed instead. When he does, his speed is halved and he can’t take the Disengage action until the end of his next turn. Hoarfrost. Cold damage dealt by Durixaviinox ignores damage resistance. Ice Walk. Durixaviinox can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain composed of ice or snow doesn’t cost him extra movement. Actions Multiattack. Durixaviinox makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) cold damage, and the target can’t take reactions until the end of their next turn. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage, and Durixaviinox can move the target up to 15 feet horizontally. Numbing Breath (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Durixaviinox exhales a freezing blast in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 42 (12d6) cold damage and is restrained until the end of their next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t restrained. Bonus Actions Icy Grip. Durixaviinox encases a creature he can see within 60 feet of him in ice. The target must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 22 (4d10) cold damage and is restrained. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn’t restrained. A creature can use an action to break themself or another creature they can reach out of the ice, ending the restrained condition. Reactions Withering Frost. When a creature within 5 feet of Durixaviinox hits him with an attack, Durixaviinox releases a burst of cold energy. Each creature within 5 feet of him must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) cold damage. Villain Actions Durixaviinox has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Raging Blizzard. Durixaviinox beats his wings, and frigid winds and hail swirl around him. Each creature within 120 feet of him must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage, is pushed 60 feet directly away from Durixaviinox, and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed or knocked prone. Action 2 : Royal Defense. Durixaviinox calls the faithful soul of a spectral guard to fight at his side. The guard uses the frost giant wind sprinter stat block, but they are an Undead instead of a Giant. The guard acts immediately after Durixaviinox and follows his verbal commands. While the guard is within 60 feet of Durixaviinox, Durixaviinox gains resistance to all damage. If Durixaviinox dies, the guard is destroyed. Action 3 : Frost Cataclysm. Durixaviinox releases a pulse of frigid energy followed by a shock wave of force in a 120-foot-radius sphere centered on him. Each enemy in that area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Immediately after, each enemy in that area must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. My breath carries the sorrow of thousands of dead dragons. Their despair will freeze the heart of my sister and make brittle anything else that stands in the way of my revenge for those lost. Durixaviinox

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

