# Dust Goblin Archmage

**description**: A ragged creature emerges from the sand. Its spindly frame is encased in a hodge-podge of armor scraps and rusted weapons. A long, hooked nose protrudes over a wide mouth filled with sharp teeth. Dust goblins vary greatly in size and appearance, although they are universally scrawny, bony, and lanky. They seem to suffer from malnutrition even when in perfect health, a perception reinforced by the way their bellies distend after they’ve gorged themselves on flesh. Their skin is always dry and cracked, ranging from dusky gray to dark green in color. Rule the Wastelands. Dust goblins are twisted creatures, tainted by many generations of life in a blasted wasteland. After a magical war devastated the dust goblins’ homeland, they rose to become the most dominant inhabitants. They inhabit ancient ruins and ambush travelers who stray too close to their borders. Twisted Minds. The lingering magical energy saturating the wastes of their home, coupled with the harsh conditions in which they scratch out a living, have tainted the minds of all dust goblins. Their thinking is alien and unfathomable to most creatures. Whereas most goblins are cowardly, dust goblins don’t seem to experience fear. To the contrary, they enjoy wearing skull helmets and using ghostly whistles to frighten foes. Owing to this alien mindset, dust goblins get along disturbingly well with Aberrations. The creatures often forge alliances and work together for mutual benefit, while making their unnerving mark on communal lairs. TRAITS Erratic Casting. Whenever the dust goblin archmage casts a spell of level 1 or higher, roll a d20. On a result of 19 or 20, a chaos magic surge occurs. Twisted. When the dust goblin archmage attacks a creature from hiding, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened until the end of its next turn. ACTIONS Multiattack. The dust goblin archmage makes three Chaos Burst attacks. Chaos Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 36 (6d10 + 3) acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, or necrotic damage. Determine the damage type by rolling a d6: 1 = Acid, 2 = Cold, 3 = Fire, 4 = Force, 5 = Lightning, 6 = Necrotic. If the dust goblin archmage scores a critical hit, the burst explodes. The target and each creature within 10 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 36 (6d10) damage. Determine the damage type by rolling a d6, as above. Spellcasting. The dust goblin archmage casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: mage hand, message, thaumaturgy 2/day each: confusion, divination, mage armor 1/day: twist of fate (see Chapter 6 ) REACTIONS Counterspell Chaos Surge (2/Day). When the dust goblin archmage can see a creature within 60 feet casting a spell, it can attempt to interrupt it. If the target is casting a spell of 3rd level or lower, its spell fails and has no effect. If it is casting a spell of 4th level or higher, the dust goblin archmage makes an Intelligence check. The DC equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, the target’s spell fails and has no effect. Whether the spell is successfully cast or fails, the dust goblin archmage can force the target to roll on the Chaos Magic Surge table (see Chapter 6 ).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Goblinoid)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

