# Du'ulora Quori

**description**: Du’ulora are spirits of fury that feed on anger and inspire rage in mortals. A du’ulora is a maelstrom of eyes and wings, bound together by flesh that seems like solidified shadow. It can extend up to three tentacles from this dark mass. A du’ulora can turn a victim’s anger into manifested heat; in battle, it grapples its victims and burns them with their own fury. Variant Inspired: Quori Vessel As described in chapter 6 of Eberron: Rising from the Last War , an Inspired gain benefits based on the type of quori possessing it. Du’ulora All-Around Vision. The Inspired can’t be surprised. Enemies Abound (1/Day). The Inspired can cast the enemies abound spell (spell save DC 13). Manipulating Fury. While they feed on anger and hatred, du’ulora rarely act rashly. They are cunning and calculating strategists who excel at inspiring fury in others and turning it against them. In battle this can cause their victims to lower their guard and even to strike their own allies in heedless rage. As servants of the Dreaming Dark, the du’ulora craft dreams that stir buried anger and incite hatred; they excel at igniting feuds and inspiring vendettas. So where a tsucora agent of the Dreaming Dark manipulates peoples’ fears and a hashalaq employs seduction, the du’ulora excel at inciting violence. The Fists of Dal Quor. The du’ulora are martial champions of the quori. They thrive on conflict and love to personally crush their enemies. While they enjoy fighting in the vanguard, the du’ulora are also skilled strategists. In Dal Quor, the du’ulora command squads of tsucora and lesser quori. In Riedra, military commanders are typically Inspired bound to du’ulora spirits. Rage Against The Darkness. The du’ulora bound to the kalashtar serve the light, but they still manipulate fury. Du’ulora kalashtar learn to harness and channel their own aggression, and are often fighters or barbarians; others are dispassionate monks, who provoke rage in their enemies while never allowing it to distract them from their goals. Quori The quori are the spirits that rule Dal Quor, the Region of Dreams. Quori are immortal, but they can be slain; when a quori dies, its essence returns to the Dreaming Dark, where it is reconstituted as a new spirit. Quori spirits are bound to emotions, and they feed on those emotions and excel at manipulating them in mortals. The tsucora thrive on fear, the hashalaq manipulate pleasure, the du’ulora are driven by anger, and the kalaraq consume pride and ambition. These are the most common quori, but there are many others; the spiteful tsoreva and the domineering usvapna have already been mentioned in previous editions. The quori are the creations of il-Lashtavar, the malevolent force that shapes Dal Quor. Cruelty is a part of their nature. However, when a quori is reborn, there is a microscopic chance that it will be touched by il-Yannah, the incarnation of light that will one day replace the Dreaming Dark. It’s possible for a quori to carry this seed of light and never embrace it. The kalaraq Taratai was the first to rally those quori who could sense the light, teaching them to push back the darkness and embrace il-Yannah. These rebels are the spirits who are now bound to the kalashtar. They are still quori—tsucora, hashalaq, du’ulora, kalaraq—and they are still tied to the emotion associated with their quori type. But they are driven by their vision of the light that is to come rather than the darkness of the present. Taratai’s rebels fled Dal Quor long ago, and there have surely been new quori touched by il-Yannah since then. But today, the Dreaming Dark are constantly policing their own ranks and searching for such “corrupted” spirits. Any that are found will be destroyed, so their spirits can be reborn as proper servants of il-Lashtavar. All quori have powerful psionic abilities. DMs could choose to represent this by granting each quori from Eberron: Rising from the Last War telepathy with a range of 120 feet. If a quori has any Inspired hosts, as do all that interact with the Material Plane, it would also speak the Riedran language. Quori: Fiends or Aberrations? Quori aren’t biological creatures. They’re immortal spirits, fragments of nightmare spawned by il-Lashtavar. They don’t sleep, and they dine only on the emotions of mortals. They are known for their ability to possess other mortals, a reflection of their fundamentally spiritual nature. All of these make them quite different from creatures such as beholders or mind flayers—monsters that are deeply alien, but that are still formed of flesh and blood. The choice to classify quori as aberrations in fifth edition reflects the idea that “aberration” is a broad category including any entity that is fundamentally alien; and certainly, the quori have no place in the natural world. However, this has a number of concrete mechanical effects. Many effects that target evil spirits only affect fiends and undead. As aberrations, quori can’t be detected by a paladin’s Divine Sense or banished to Dal Quor with divine word . The spells hallow and forbiddance don’t protect against them. This was an intentional decision that renders quori immune to many of the tools that can be deployed against devils or demons. However, as a DM, you can choose to make quori fiends instead of aberrations if you want these spells and effects to be effective against them. Or you could compromise by leaving quori as aberrations, but say that clerics and paladins devoted to the Path of Light can affect quori with any spell or class feature that affects fiends. This keeps quori as mysterious and alien, and gives the Path of Light a unique role in battling them. Traits All-Around Vision. The quori can’t be surprised while it isn’t incapacitated. Aura of Fury. Any creature of the quori’s choice that ends its turn within 60 of the quori must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become enraged for 1 minute. During that time, the enraged target has advantage on all melee attack rolls, and all attack rolls made against that target have advantage. An enraged target is subject to the quori’s Incite Fury reaction. Innate Spellcasting (Psionics). The quori’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no components: At will: mage hand 3/day each: crown of madness, flaming sphere, shield 1/day each: enemies abound XGE Magic Resistance. The quori has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Track Hatred. When the quori deals damage to any creature, it forms a psychic link with the target for 24 hours. During that time, the quori has advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to track the target. The quori can attempt to track the target at any range, even if it is on another plane of existence, and abilities such as the pass without trace spell or the ranger’s Vanish feature do not impede the quori’s ability to track its target. Even when the quori is tracking while traveling, it remains alert to danger. Actions Multiattack. The quori makes three tentacle attacks. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target takes 10 (3d6) fire damage and 10 (3d6) psychic damage at the start of each of the quori’s turns, and the quori can’t use that tentacle against a different target. The quori has three tentacles. Possession (Recharge 6). One humanoid that the quori can see within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the quori; the quori then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The quori now controls the body but doesn’t deprive the target of awareness. The quori can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target’s statistics, but doesn’t gain access to the target’s knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the quori ends it as a bonus action, or the quori is forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the quori reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to this quori’s Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends. Recall Agony (Recharge 5-6). The quori makes a creature recall the most agonizing moments of its past—or future. One creature within 60 feet of the quori must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, taking 67 (15d8) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Reactions Incite Fury. When an enraged creature targets the quori with an attack, the quori can cause it to instead target another creature of the quori’s choice within range.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 20973
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Exploring Eberron

