# Dwarf, Angler

**description**: A pale light bobs gently on the end of a long tendril affixed to the forehead of a gray-skinned dwarf. Saliva drips from an enormous maw filled with dagger-like teeth. Long ago, a clan of dwarves broke away from its brethren, choosing to embrace the challenge of living in the deepest, darkest caverns of the world. In time, even the deepest-dwelling clans lost contact with this clan as it delved deeper with each generation. Symbiotic Predators. Over millennia under the earth, the angler dwarves developed a symbiotic union with tiny elementals that now reside in the tendrils that grow from angler dwarves' heads. When hunting for food, an angler dwarf stands still, camouflaged by the magic of its symbiotic elemental and leaving only an orb of pale light visible. When a creature—whether a monster, lost miner, or unlucky adventurer—steps too close to the light, the angler dwarf surprises and attempts to consume it. Remnants of the Clan. In their gradual transformation from dwarf to angler dwarf, the symbiotic predators retained some of the clan structures of their dwarvish ancestors. Angler dwarves are mostly solitary creatures, but they maintain a scattered sense of community and tend to dwell within a few miles of each other. If the angler dwarves perceive a great threat, they temporarily band together in large numbers in their ancestral caverns to drive it away. Underworld Camouflage. The angler dwarf has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks to hide in rocky underground terrain. Actions Multiattack. The angler dwarf makes two Bite attacks, or it makes one Bite attack and uses Blazing Beacon. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (4d6 + 3) piercing damage. Alluring Light. The angler dwarf causes the orb at the end of its lure to glow. The angler dwarf can extinguish the light as a bonus action. While the light is active, when a creature enters a space within 90 feet of the angler dwarf for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there and can see the light must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the angler dwarf until the light is extinguished. While charmed in this way, a creature is incapacitated and ignores the lights of other angler dwarves. If a charmed creature is more than 5 feet away from the dwarf, the creature must move on its turn toward the dwarf by the most direct route, trying to get within 5 feet. The charmed creature doesn't avoid opportunity attacks, but before moving into damaging terrain, such as lava or a pit, and whenever it takes damage from a source other than the angler dwarf, the creature can repeat the saving throw. A creature can also repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful save, the effect ends on it, and the creature is immune to the alluring light of all angler dwarves for the next 24 hours. Blazing Beacon. The angler dwarf summons a bright burst of light from its lure. Each creature that isn't an angler dwarf within 20 feet of the dwarf must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 9 (2d8) radiant damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't blinded.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Dwarf)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

