# Dweomercat

**description**: Dweomercats are magically gifted, four-eyed felines from the First World, where they prey upon other creatures and feed upon their primal energy. They are often encountered in areas of the Material Plane where the veil to the First World is thin, or in regions where magic has been warped irreparably. Dweomercats have dark purple fur that is decorated with spirals and curls of lighter blue stripes that almost seem to form magical runes in their patterns. Dweomercats are famous for their ability to twist the metaphorical strings of spells cast on or near them, which they can transform into their own defensive magic or tap into to instantly teleport across the battlefield. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The dweomercat’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). The dweomercat can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect magic, dispel magic 3/day: dimension door, globe of invulnerability Keen Smell. The dweomercat has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Magic Resistance. The dweomercat has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Rake. If a dweomercat hits with both claw attacks, or with one claw attack and its bite, it can make an extra claw attack as a bonus action. It has disadvantage on the attack roll for this claw attack. Actions Multiattack. The dweomercat makes two claw attacks and one bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8+6) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6+6) slashing damage. Pouncing Spring. If the dweomercat moves at least 10 feet before attacking and this attack hits, it can choose to deal an additional 1d6 piercing damage. If it chooses to forgo this extra damage, its movement after attacking does not provoke attacks of opportunity. Reactions Whenever a dweomercat is subjected to a spell effect or is in the area of effect for a spell, as a reaction it can use one of the following reactions. The dweomercat is still affected by the spell. Dweomer Leap. The dweomercat teleports to an unoccupied space adjacent to the caster and makes a single melee attack. Spell Link. The dweomercat gains one of the following spell effects, depending on the school of the spell. If an active spell effect requires concentration, it ends if the dweomercat uses this ability to gain another concentration spell effect. Abjuration: The dweomercat gains protection from energy for 1 minute. Conjuration: The dweomercat gains shield for 1 round. Divination: The dweomercat can detect evil or good or detect thoughts for 1 minute. Enchantment: The dweomercat gains heroism for 1 minute. Evocation: The dweomercat reflects a portion of the spell’s energy back at the caster, dealing a number of damage equal to the spell’s level if the caster fails a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, or half as much damage if they succeed (minimum 1). Illusion: The dweomercat gains invisibility for 1 minute. Necromancy: The dweomercat gains false life for 1 minute. Transmutation: The dweomercat gains the effect of magic weapon on its bite and claws for 1 minute.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: beast
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

