# Ectellax, The Flayed (Adult Eldritch Dragon)

**description**: Ectellax, The Flayed was just an eldritch wyrmling when the God-Shaped Hole sent him to the Templum Praeteritum as a test for the mortal priests there. He was the last of the tests before the “Radiant One” vanished. Unlike the other eldritch sacrifices, Ectellax defeated the priests in the temple by directly tapping into the God-Shaped Hole’s power through the original eldritch carving. The exposure to this raw energy tore the flesh from his body, flaying him alive and leaving him in a constant state of agony. Tempestuous Growth. As the Radiant Church retreated and sealed the horrors away, Ectellax devoured the eldritch energy and grew faster than he would have otherwise. Now an adult, the dragon has gained a semblance of control over his enormous potential, and is ready to break through the sealed door leading to the Radiant Church and waits, desperate for his opportunity—even the monstrous gravitational fields he generates are useless against this eldritch prison. Inherited Dreams. Those of his kin share a collective memory that each newborn inherits—a gift of memory through flesh. Yet, the only thing that Ectellax has added to this wealth of knowledge is his despair. In his slumber, the memories of his ancestors possess him, tormenting him, rousing his anger and frustration, feelings that he is unable to act on. The visions of dragons soaring through the cosmos, bending foreign civilizations under their rule, or wiping them out of existence with their apocalyptic powers—sources of pride for his kind, and a painful reminder of his own helplessness. Helpless Tyrant. Trapped underground and cut off from the world, Ectellax’s mind has slowly unraveled. He has long lost the ability to distinguish between reality and dream; sometimes believing himself free, he hurls himself against the walls of his stone prison. The earth trembles and stone groans as the dragon thrashes about in his sleep, shaking the surface world in the crossfire of his nightmare. The proud being is now nothing more than a trapped and tormented soul. Ectellax’s long imprisonment has twisted his despotic intentions even further, turning them into a thirst for destruction and revenge. He longs to break free and unleash his fury on the world and the heavens, dethroning the so-called god that turned him into a puppet; but these remain hopeless wishes, as the barriers holding him underground remain unyielding. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Maddened Mind. When a creature initiates telepathic contact with the dragon or attempts to read its mind, the creature must succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw or gain a short-term madness, as it witnesses the insanity the dragon holds. Innate Spellcasting. The dragon's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: gravity well, gravity storm, levitate 3/day each: astral barrage, fling, gravitational distortion Hatred of Radiance. When the dragon takes radiant damage, it goes into a blind rage, sacrificing its own body for power. The dragon takes 11 (2d10) necrotic damage, which can't be reduced in any way, and can take an additional legendary action before the start of its next turn. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Tyrant’s Presence. It then makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its claw. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage. Tyrant’s Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, the creature also prostrates itself before the dragon, falling prone and unable to stand up. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Tyrant’s Presence for the next 24 hours. Cosmic Breath (Recharge 5-6). The dragon exhales a rush of void and stars in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (4d8) necrotic damage and 18 (4d8) cold damage, and gains a short-term madness. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and doesn’t suffer any additional effect. Bonus actions Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (1d8 + 8) psychic damage. If the target is Huge or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 22). The dragon can have up to four creatures grappled at a time. Leap. The dragon uses 10 feet of movement to jump 30 feet. Reactions Dimension Warp. When a creature within 150 feet of the dragon targets it with a spell, the dragon can attempt to warp the world to swap positions with its assailant. The spellcaster must succeed on a DC 20 Charisma saving throw or exchange position with the dragon, becoming the new target of the spell. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tentacle Attack. The dragon makes one tentacle attack. Cast Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon casts a spell. Shatter Mind (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon targets a creature that it can see. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic damage and gain a short-term madness. A creature the dragon is grappling automatically fails this saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: aberration and dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

