# Efreeti Sultan

**description**: All efreet are led by the powerful and terrifying Sultan, who seldom leaves his ruby and diamond palace in the City of Brass, the efreeti capital in the Elemental Plane of Fire. He spends most of his time scheming and planning with the noble efreeti on how to conquer and expand the sultanate. As a true primary genie, he is able to bestow wishes. He almost never does though. Traits Elemental Demise. If the efreeti dies, its body disintegrates into a flash of fire and puff of smoke, leaving behind only equipment the efreeti was wearing or carrying. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the efreeti fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The efreeti has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Greater Spell Penetration. When the efreeti casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The efreeti makes two Scimitar attacks or uses its Hurl Flame twice. Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d6 + 8) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) fire damage. Hurl Flame. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (6d6) fire damage. Spellcasting. The efreeti casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: detect magic, enlarge/reduce, tongues 3/day each: conjure elemental (fire elemental only, as an action), dispel magic, gaseous form, invisibility, major image, plane shift, wall of fire 1/day each: fire storm, incendiary cloud Teleport. The efreeti magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Hellfire Gaze (Recharge 6). The efreeti's eyes projects intense fiery energy in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 30 (4d6 + 16) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated. A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of fine ash and slag. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a true resurrection or a wish spell. Grant Wish (3/Year). The efreeti grants a wish spell to a creature that isn't a genie. In order to work, the efreeti must be willing to grant the wish . Unless carefully and properly worded, the efreeti will pervert the wish's intent into a literal but undesirable or partial fulfillment. The efreeti can't grant a wish purposely to serve its own needs. Legendary Actions The efreeti can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The efreeti regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Scimitar. The efreeti makes a Scimitar attack. Teleport. The efreeti uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The efreeti uses Spellcasting. Conflagrate (Costs 3 Actions). The efreeti targets up to three creatures it can see within 30 feet of it. Each target that is not immune to fire must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature becomes frightened, takes 14 (4d6) fire damage, and catches fire, taking 10 (3d6) fire damage at the end of each of its turns. The creature remains frightened until the fire is extinguished. An affected creature or another creature within 5 feet of it can take an action to extinguish the fire. On a successful save, the creature is not frightened, takes half as much damage and doesn't catch fire.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Elemental
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

