# Ekundayo (Level 6)

**description**: Tragedy spurs Ekundayo’s overwhelming desire for revenge against all giants. Though not a distrustful person, Ekundayo rarely speaks. When he does, he is direct and to the point. The only time his dour expression changes is when he hears about an opportunity to hunt and kill giants, though he doesn’t become joyful at the prospect: instead, a grim determination overtakes him as he prepares for upcoming battle, driving him to remain unconcerned with whether he fights alone or accompanied by allies. Traits Equipment. Longbow +1 , arrows (20), longsword +1 , leather armor +1 , boots of elvenkind , explorer’s pack, alchemist’s fire (3), and woodcarver’s tools. Favored Enemy. Ekundayo has advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to track giants and dragons, as well as on Intelligence checks to recall information about them. Fighting Style (Archery). Ekundayo gains a +2 bonus to attack rolls he makes with ranged weapons (included in the attack). Natural Explorer. When Ekundayo makes an Intelligence or Wisdom check related to forest or mountain terrain, his proficiency bonus (+3) is doubled if he is using a skill that he’s proficient in. While traveling for an hour or more in favored terrain, he gains the following benefits: Difficult terrain doesn’t slow his group’s travel. His group can’t become lost except by magical means. Even when he is engaged in another activity while traveling (such as foraging, navigating, or tracking), he remains alert to danger. If he is traveling alone, he can move stealthily at a normal pace. When he forages, he finds twice as much food as he normally would. While tracking other creatures, he also learns their exact number, their sizes, and how long ago they passed through the area. Primeval Awareness. Ekundayo can use his action and expend one ranger spell slot to focus his awareness on the region around him. For 1 minute per level of the spell slot, he can sense whether the following types of creatures are present within 1 mile of him (or within up to 6 miles if he is in his favored terrain): aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead. This feature doesn’t reveal the creatures’ locations or number. Spellcasting. Ekundayo is a 6th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 12). He has the following ranger spells prepared: 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, hunter’s mark, landstrider 2nd level (2 slots): pass without trace Actions Multiattack. Ekundayo makes two melee or ranged weapon attacks. Then, he can make another attack with the same weapon against a different creature that is within 5 feet of the original target and within range of his weapon. Longsword +1. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage. or 8 (1d10 +3) slashing damage if used in two hands to make a melee attack. Longbow +1. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 17526

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

