# Elder Balhannoth

**description**: A balhannoth, if left alone for decades, can gain a vast amount of power from devouring countless victims. It eventually evolves into the more fearsome elder balhannoth. Extremely rare even in the Shadowfell, the elder balhannoth will either take over balhannoth colonies as its alpha or destroy and consume everything (even its kin) within miles of its territory to ensure it has no competition. Irresistible Lure. The elder balhannoth has developed an ability to emit an aura of enchantment around it. When a creature enters this aura, the elder balhannoth immediately digs deep into its mind, draws forth its greatest desires, and then projects a reality-warping manifestation of it that only the unwitting creature can see. This causes the victim to approach the elder balhannoth, oblivious to the actual danger. Traits Enticing Presence. Any non-balhannoth creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the balhannoth must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed by the balhannoth for 1 minute. While charmed by the balhannoth, a target is incapacitated. If the charmed target is more than 5 feet away from the balhannoth, the target can take the Dash action on its turn to move toward the balhannoth by the most direct route. It doesn't avoid opportunity attacks, but before moving into damaging terrain, such as lava or a pit, and whenever it takes damage from a source other than the balhannoth, a target can repeat the saving throw. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the balhannoth's Enticing Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the balhannoth fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The balhannoth makes one Bite attack and two Tentacle attacks. It can use Tentacle Slam in place of one Tentacle attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (4d10 + 5) piercing damage. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18) and is moved up to 10 feet toward the balhannoth. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the balhannoth can't use this tentacle against other targets. The balhannoth has four tentacles. Tentacle Slam. The balhannoth slams creatures grappled by it into each other or a solid surface. Each creature must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or take 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of the balhannoth's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Legendary Actions The balhannoth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The balhannoth regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bite. The balhannoth makes one Bite attack against one creature it has grappled. Teleport. The balhannoth teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Vanish. The balhannoth magically becomes invisible for up to 10 minutes or until immediately after it makes an attack roll. Tentacle (Costs 2 Actions). The balhannoth makes one Tentacle attack or uses Tentacle Slam.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

