# Elder Geomancer

**description**: Geomancers are powerful practitioners of magic who specialize in harnessing the power of the earth and its energies. They use gravity to reshape terrain, create walls, projectiles, and other structures. One with the Earth. Geomancers tend to be introspective and meditative due to their commitment to attuning with the earth. To increase their sensitivity, they often keep a part of their body in contact with the ground, allowing them to perceive vibrations caused by objects impacting the surface of the earth, such as footsteps. Defense and Destruction. While geomancers are often sought after for their defensive uses, such as fortifying a section of land, they are also incredibly devastating magic-users. They can cause the ground to ripple like a wave, generate earthquakes, summon dangerous earth elementals, and even reverse an area's gravity. Actions Multiattack. The geomancer uses Rock Strike three times. Rock Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Rippling Earth (Recharges 5–6). The geomancer magically causes the earth to suddenly move in a violent, cascading motion in a 30-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature standing on the ground in that line must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 32 (5d12) bludgeoning damage, is pushed up to 10 feet, and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain until cleared. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand. Avalanche (1/Day). The geomancer conjures rocks and boulders and launches them toward a chosen point within 120 feet of it. Each creature in a 30-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on that point must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 38 (7d10) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and restrained. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 15 Strength check. On a success, the creature is no longer restrained. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone or restrained. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain until cleared. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand. Spellcasting. The geomancer casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks): At will: acid splash (3d6), mage hand, mending 2/day each: mage armor, meld into stone, spike growth, thunderwave 1/day each: conjure elemental (earth), stoneskin, wall of stone, reverse gravity Bonus Actions Earth Skate. While the geomancer is standing on the ground, the geomancer magically manipulates the earth to ripple and carry the geomancer a short distance. The geomancer moves up to 15 feet without provoking opportunity attacks. Reactions Stone Shield (3/Day). When the geomancer or a creature within 30 feet of it is hit by an attack roll, the geomancer gives the target a +5 bonus to its AC, which can cause the triggering attack roll to miss, and resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks until the start of the geomancer’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

