# Elder Orb

**description**: Compared to its normal kin, the Elder Orb is a more advanced and dangerous beholder with the innate ability to cast arcane spells. Save for the Ultimate Tyrant, the Elder Orb is probably the most intelligent of its kind, but also the most cunning, diabolical, and cruel as well. Master Racists. Elder Orbs sometimes serve as advisors to Ultimate Tyrants, but most are leaders of various beholder factions. They think of themselves as the pinnacle of beholderkind, as well as pushing beholders as the supreme race and master of all other beings. They have bribed, threatened, and killed their way to place themselves in strategically high, if not the highest, positions of every faction they have managed to reach, often without revealing their true nature. It is rumored that the current Xanathar is an Elder Orb. An Elder Orb's Lair An elder orb’s central lair is typically a large, spacious cavern with high ceilings, where it can attack without fear of closing to melee range. It also has several 15-foot wide tunnels and sinkholes, all interconnected with each other, which the elder orb uses to its advantage. An elder orb encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 18 (20,000 XP). Lair Actions When fighting inside its lair, a beholder can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the beholder can take one lair action to cause one of the following effects: A 50-foot square area of ground within 120 feet of the beholder becomes slimy and toxic; that area is difficult terrain until initiative count 20 on the next round. Each creature that starts its turn in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) poison damage. Walls within 120 feet of the beholder sprout grasping appendages until initiative count 20 on the round after next. Each creature of the beholder’s choice that starts its turn within 15 feet of such a wall must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be grappled. Escaping requires a successful DC 17 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. An eye opens on a solid surface within 60 feet of the beholder. One random eye ray of the beholder shoots from that eye at a target of the beholder’s choice that it can see. The eye then closes and disappears. Regional Effects The regional effects of an elder orb are identical to that of a Beholder (MM). Traits Antimagic Cone. The beholder's central eye creates an area of antimagic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 150-foot cone. At the start of each of its turns, the beholder decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. The area works against the beholder's own eye rays. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the beholder fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Bite . Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) piercing damage. Eye Rays . The beholder shoots three of the following magical eye rays at random (reroll duplicates), choosing one to three targets it can see within 120 feet of it: 1. Charm Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the beholder for 1 hour, or until the beholder harms the creature. 2. Paralyzing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 3. Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 4. Slowing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target's speed is halved for 1 minute. In addition, the creature can't take reactions, and it can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 5. Enervation Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 40 (9d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 6. Telekinetic Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or the beholder moves it up to 30 feet in any direction. It is restrained by the ray's telekinetic grip until the start of the beholder's next turn or until the beholder is incapacitated. If the target is an object weighing 300 pounds or less that isn't being worn or carried, it is moved up to 30 feet in any direction. The beholder can also exert fine control on objects with this ray, such as manipulating a simple tool or opening a door or a container. 7. Sleep Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or fall asleep and remain unconscious for 1 minute. The target awakens if it takes damage or another creature takes an action to wake it. This ray has no effect on Constructs and Undead. 8. Petrification Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature begins to turn to stone and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the creature is petrified until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. 9. Disintegration Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 49 (11d8) force damage. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, its body becomes a pile of fine gray dust. If the target is a Large or smaller nonmagical object or creation of magical force, it is disintegrated without a saving throw. If the target is a Huge or larger object or creation of magical force, this ray disintegrates a 10-foot cube of it. 10. Death Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 60 (11d10) necrotic damage. The target dies if the ray reduces it to 0 hit points. Spellcasting (Psionics). While the beholder's antimagic cone is inactive, the beholder casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: darkness, detect magic, detect thoughts, see invisibility 2/day each: dispel magic, stoneskin 1/day each: globe of invulnerability, move earth, power word stun, wall of force Legendary Actions The beholder can take 3 legendary actions, using the options listed below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The beholder regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Antimagic Cone. The beholder turns which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. Eye Ray. The beholder uses one random Eye Ray. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The beholder uses Spellcasting. Reactions Redirect Antimagic Cone. When the beholder sees a creature within 150 feet cast a spell, the beholder activates its antimagic cone and points it at the creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

