# Elder Tarasca

**description**: At first glance, the monstrous tarasca appears to be a cross between a lion, a bear, and a turtle. The tarasca (not to be confused with the tarrasque) has the head of a lion, six legs of a bear, a turtle’s shell, and a tail that ends with a deadly stinger. Its mouth is beaked like a snapping turtle’s and ridged like a jagged saw. Sharp bony spikes line the top and sides of its hard shell. Dangerous Adversary. The dreaded tarasca is fiercely territorial and is known for its aggression and irascibility. It fears little and will even attack creatures bigger than itself. Most predators, even dragons, stay clear of it and find the tarasca simply not worth the risk of having a grievous injury. Aside from its stinger that can inject deadly venom, the tarasca can also exhale a highly toxic gas. Victims who survived getting caught by the breath describe the experience as having unbearably excruciating pain as if their insides are getting burned. Amphibious Predator. The tarasca is an amphibious creature that lives in flooded caves and underground caverns near large bodies of water such as coasts, coves, lakes, swamps, and rivers. It will eat and hunt anything of its size and smaller but prefers large fish and reptiles. It has been known to attack and pick off occupants of boats and even lunge from underwater to snap at a passing horse or livestock before dragging it back to the water. Traits Hold Breath. The tarasca can hold its breath for 15 minutes. Actions Multiattack. The tarasca makes one Bite attack and one Sting attack. It can't make both attacks against the same target. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the tarasca can automatically hit the target with its Bite attack, and the tarasca can't attack another target with its Bite attack. Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage. The target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Swallow. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target grappled by the tarasca. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage. The creature is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the tarasca, and it takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of the tarasca's turns. The tarasca can have only one target swallowed at a time. If the tarasca takes 15 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the tarasca must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate the swallowed creature, which falls prone in a space within 5 feet of the tarasca. If the tarasca dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. Poison Breath (Recharge 5-6). The tarasca exhales poisonous fumes in a 30-foot cube. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. A creature being grappled by the tarasca has disadvantage on the saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

