# Elder Green Hag

**description**: Elder green hags are powerful druids that can draw and channel the magical energies of the swamp where it usually lives. Aside from its many abilities as a hag, it can also let loose a disturbing cackle that can drive any who hear it into insane acts of violence. Elder green hags subjugate and take command of any humanoid and giant tribes that live nearby its lair and thus, it is not common to have lizardfolk, ogres, redcaps, trolls, ettins, and even hill giants serving as the elder green hag's guards. Hags, Elder Presented in this section are the elder versions of the green hag, night hag, and sea hag. Elders are hags that have grown more powerful from the knowledge and experience they have gathered through several centuries. Traits Amphibious. The hag can breathe air and water. Mimicry. The hag can mimic animal sounds and humanoid voices. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check. Spell Penetration. When the hag casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Actions Claws . Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have its Strength score reduced by 1d4. The target dies if this reduces its Strength to 0. Otherwise, the reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. Wildfire. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 60 ft., one target . Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) fire damage, and the target is blinded until the start of the hag’s next turn. Illusory Appearance. The hag covers herself and anything she is wearing or carrying with a magical illusion that makes her look like another creature of her general size and humanoid shape. The illusion ends if the hag takes a bonus action to end it or if she dies. The changes wrought by this effect fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, the hag could appear to have smooth skin, but someone touching her would feel her rough flesh. Otherwise, a creature must take an action to visually inspect the illusion and succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the hag is disguised. Invisible Passage. The hag magically turns invisible until she attacks or casts a spell, or until her concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). While invisible, she leaves no physical evidence of her passage, so she can be tracked only by magic. Any equipment she wears or carries is invisible with her. Spellcasting. The hag casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks): At will: dancing lights, druidcraft, minor illusion, vicious mockery (3d4) 2/day each: charm person, erupting earth, polymorph, spike growth 1/day each: bones of the earth, contagion, insect plague Maddening Cackle (Recharge 5–6). Each creature within 30 feet of the hag and able to hear the hag must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 15 (3d8 + 2) psychic damage, and must use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make a melee weapon attack against one visible creature of the hag's choice. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

