# Elder Banshee

**description**: When a banshee lingers in a state between life and death long enough for its anger to grow too large to contain, it transcends its previous incarnation and grows in power, becoming a deadly spirit known as an elder banshee. Little distinguishes an elder banshee from a typical banshee, for both manifest as ghostly humanoid figures. Woe to those who mistake an elder banshee for one of its lesser kind! Traits Aura of Fear. A creature that is within 10 feet of the banshee while it is conscious has disadvantage on saving throws against being frightened. Creatures that are normally immune to being frightened lose their immunity to being frightened while within 10 feet of the banshee but do not have disadvantage on their saving throws against becoming frightened. Hear Heartbeat. The banshee can sense the beating hearts of living creatures within 60 feet, perceiving them as if the banshee had the blindsight ability. It cannot detect plants, oozes, or amorphous creatures with this ability, nor any living creature that lacks a heartbeat. Incorporeal Movement. The banshee can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. The banshee takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the banshee fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spectral Ripple. When the banshee moves at least 10 feet during a round, it is treated as if it is lightly obscured until the beginning of its next turn. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the banshee has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Terrifying Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6+5) necrotic damage, and the target must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target is frightened for 1 minute. If the target is under the effects of an ongoing spell or effect that protects against being frightened (such as heroes’ feast ), treat the Terrifying Touch as a dispel magic spell against that effect. Immortal Anguish. Creatures within 60 feet of the banshee that are able to see and hear them must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, a creature has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks for 1 minute. A creature that succeeds at a saving throw against this trait is immune for 24 hours. Shout. Creatures within 30 feet of the banshee must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) thunder damage on a failed save and becoming deafened for 1 minute, and taking half as much damage on a success and not becoming deafened. Wail (Recharge 6). Hostile living creatures within 40 feet who can hear the banshee have disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the end of the banshee’s next turn and must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed saving throw, a creature takes 28 (8d6) necrotic damage and 28 (8d6) thunder damage and is frightened for 1 minute; on a failure by 5 or more, the target is permanently deafened. A target can make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns; on a success, the target is no longer frightened. Any magical silence effect within range is treated as if the banshee had cast dispel magic . The sound of the banshee’s wail reverberates until the beginning of its next turn, and any creature coming within range is affected by these echoes as if it had been present when the banshee had wailed. Reactions Vengeful Spite. When an enemy within 40 feet critically hits the banshee or the banshee fails a saving throw against such an enemy’s damaging effect, the banshee lashes back at its tormentor to evoke anguish and horror. The target must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) psychic damage or half as much on a successful save. A creature failing its saving throw is also stunned. The creature can attempt a new saving throw each round at the end of its turn to end the stunned condition, though when the stun ends, it becomes frightened for 1 round. Legendary Actions The banshee can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The banshee regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The banshee moves up to its full speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Shout (Costs 2 Actions). The banshee uses its shout. Terrifying Touch Attack. The banshee makes one terrifying touch attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

