# Elder Half-White Dragon Triceratops

**description**: The half-white dragon triceratops retains the triceratops base body structure, including its protective head armor and horns. It has the white dragon's ivory and sky blue scales, wings, and tail. While it still has its beaked jaws, it is now filled with sharp, jagged teeth as the half-white dragon triceratops is a carnivorous predator. Implacable Predator. The half-white dragon triceratops is a vicious and merciless killer. It will relentlessly attack or drive out intruders that foolishly wander into its territory. If food is scarce, it will roam the lands outside its realm and menace herds, settlements, and caravans. Cold Juggernaut. The half-white dragon triceratops usually starts combat using its powerful breath attack, freezing enemies in place. Using its great horns and powerful legs, the half-white dragon triceratops will then charge at its foes with no regard for its safety. Smaller enemies that aren't quick enough to leap to safety get trampled and crushed while larger targets get their bodies gored and smashed, resulting in torn muscles and shattered bones. While the half-white dragon triceratops can fly, it only does so to circumvent tough obstacles or to extricate itself from tight situations. Powerful Mount. The half-white dragon triceratops is a solitary creature, living most of its life alone and only spending brief moments in time to mate with a triceratops. However, if one is captured and broken young by a frost giant, a half-white dragon triceratops can be trained as a mount, to be used by the frost giant that defeated it. A Half-White Dragon Triceratops's Lair Large frozen caverns that open into vast snowy tundras are the preferred lairs of a half-white dragon triceratops. The challenge rating of a half-white dragon triceratops increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the half-dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the half-dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The half-dragon chooses up to three points on the ground it can see within its lair. Slick ice instantly covers the ground in a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on each point. For the duration of the effect, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain. When the ice appears, each creature other than the half-dragon standing in its area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. A creature other than the half-dragon that enters those areas or ends its turn there must also succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. The ice lasts for 1 minute, until the half-dragon uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the half-dragon dies. The half-dragon targets a point it can see within its lair. A frigid cloud of cold explodes in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on that point. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (3d6) cold damage and is restrained by ice until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't restrained by ice. The half-dragon creates a wall of ice on a solid surface within its lair. The wall is shaped as a flat surface made up of seven 10-foot-square panels that are 1 foot thick. Each panel must be contiguous with another panel. If the wall cuts through a creature's space when it appears, the creature within its area is pushed to one side of the wall and must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 10 (3d6) cold damage, or half as much damage on a successful save. The wall has AC 12 and 20 hit points per 10-foot section, is immune to poison and psychic damage, and is vulnerable to fire damage. The wall of ice lasts for 1 minute or until the half-dragon uses this lair action again. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Charge. If the half-dragon moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 18 (4d8) piercing damage. Ice Walk. The half-dragon can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon makes one Gore attack and one Bite attack. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 26 (4d8 + 8) piercing damage and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) cold damage. Trample. The half-dragon moves up to its walking speed in a straight line. During this move, it can enter Large or smaller creatures’ spaces. A creature whose space the half-dragon enters must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is pushed to the nearest space out of the half-dragon’s path. On a failed save, the creature falls prone and takes 24 (3d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage. If the half-dragon remains in the prone creature’s space, the creature is also restrained until it’s no longer in the same space as the half-dragon. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 20 Strength check. On a success, the creature is moved to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the half-dragon and is no longer restrained. Cold Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales an icy blast in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one prone creature. Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the half-dragon's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

