# Elder Barrow Hag

**description**: Barrow Hag (Bruha) The wretched barrow hag, also known as bruha in other parts of the Realms, looks like an emaciated crone with mottled, dry leathery skin stretched tight over her hunched body. Her horrid head is topped with wild, wiry black and grayish hair. Her hateful eyes look sickly and glazed, and her mouth contains sharp, gnarly yellow teeth and a long, greenish serpentine tongue. The barrow hag exudes a disgusting, overpowering stench that reminds of rotten fish and fruit, sickening those close enough to smell her. Corpse Eater. As her name suggests, a barrow hag haunts barrows, catacombs, cemeteries, graveyards, and battlefields where decaying corpses are plentiful. She typically makes her lair in a crypt or a network of tunnels underneath where she haunts that is difficult to access. Like a ghoul, she feeds on the decomposing flesh of humanoid corpses, especially that of young ones. She particularly relishes sucking the putrid marrow from the bones, slurping it with her prehensile tongue. Corpse Collector. If the barrow hag is unable to find a corpse to consume, she will resort to stalking people, prioritizing children and solitary targets. In combat, she relies primarily on her ability to paralyze her prey with her grotesque tongue before finishing it off with her sharp claws. The barrow hag is also an accomplished magic-user, but will only use her spells against more formidable opponents. Once she has slain her prey, she drags its corpse to her lair or in a secluded location where she can bury it in a shallow grave or place it in a large jar or barrel to let it decompose for a few weeks until it is ripe enough for her. The barrow hag typically stores several corpses in varying stages of decay. Accursed Company. The barrow hag is usually a solitary creature, not wanting to draw attention like a large group can, especially if she has moved in recently to a location near a civilized area, such as a cemetery. However, if she decides she needs help, she can create loyal followers by turning captured humanoids into busos, a type of aswang. These busos become her eyes and ears during the day, providing her with information about the local community and potential prey. The hag also attracts the company of ghouls and ghasts that become subservient to her. Elder Barrow Hag. The elder barrow hag is an older, ancient version of a barrow hag. She is an accomplished necromancer, and her lair is typically guarded by numerous undead. She is very dangerous when encountered with her minions, as she can unleash a terrible wail that can both panic her foes and stir her undead into a deadly frenzy. Traits Keen Smell. The hag has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Loathsome Presence. Any humanoid that starts its turn within 30 feet of the hag and can smell the hag must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature spends its action that turn retching and reeling. Humanoids that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the hag's Loathsome Presence for the next 24 hours. Aswang Curse (1/Day). A hag can curse an incapacitated humanoid. The hag has to be within 5 feet of the humanoid for at least 5 minutes, after which it expels a shadowy essence from its mouth and transfers it into the target's, afflicting it with the buso aswang curse. The buso acts as the hag's ally. Casting remove curse, greater restoration , or a similar spell on the target can end the curse. Doing so undoes the changes made to the target by the curse. Actions Multiattack. The hag makes two attacks: one with its Claws and one with its Tongue. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target . Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage. Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (2d6) necrotic damage, and the target must succeed a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become paralyzed for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with a successful save. Spellcasting. The hag casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: chill touch (3d8), mage hand, minor illusion, poison spray (3d12), prestidigitation 2/day each: alter self, charm person, earth tremor, Tasha's hideous laughter, web 1/day each: cloudkill, circle of death, create undead Haunting Wail (Recharge 6). The hag emits a terrifying wail that frightens foes and incites its undead allies into a frenzy. Each undead ally that is within 60 feet of the hag, can hear the hag, and not already affected by Haunting Wail gain advantage on attack rolls and saving throw rolls until the start of the hag's next turn. All other non-undead and non-fiend creatures within 60 feet of the hag must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from the hag by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn't take the Dash action. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn't have line of sight to the hag, the creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the hag's Haunting Wail for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

