# Elder Haghead Creeper

**description**: When a hag dies a violent death and its body is left to rot, its malignant essence spreads around its corpse and befouls everything it touches. In very rare instances, the hag's vile ichor seeps into a critter's egg and corrupts the embryo, mutating it. For some reason, perhaps due to the hag's potent magic or some form of a curse, the embryo gestates into a hideous and loathsome horror called a haghead creeper. Two-headed Abomination. A haghead creeper is a giant reptilian monstrosity that resembles a cross between a frog and a salamander. What makes the creature look even more grotesque is its second head, that of the hag's, growing from the top of the reptilian's head. Depraved Hunter. While the haghead creeper retains some of its former life's memories, it is no longer as intelligent. Driven by cruelty, hate, and hunger, the creature lives the rest of its wretched life lurking in foul marshes, swamps, and shores, waiting for hapless victims to torment, kill, and devour. Traits Amphibious. The haghead creeper can breathe air and water. Horrific Appearance. Any humanoid that starts its turn within 30 feet of the haghead creeper and can see the haghead creeper must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the haghead creeper is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the haghead creeper's Horrific Appearance for the next 24 hours. Unless the target is surprised, the target can avert its eyes and avoid making the initial saving throw. Until the start of its next turn, a creature that averts its eyes has disadvantage on attack rolls against the haghead creeper. Actions Multiattack. The haghead creeper uses Death Glare or Shriek. It then makes one Bite or Swallow attack and one Claws attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage and if the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the haghead creeper can't use its Bite attack against other targets. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage. Death Glare. The haghead creeper targets one frightened creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the haghead creeper, it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or drop to 0 hit points. Swallow. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Medium or smaller creature grappled by the haghead creeper. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. The creature is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the haghead creeper, and it takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of the haghead creeper's turns. The haghead creeper can have only one target swallowed at a time. If the haghead creeper dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. Shriek (Recharge 5–6). The haghead creeper emits a blood-curdling shriek than can be heard out to a range of 120 feet. Each creature within 30 feet of the haghead creeper must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 22 (5d8) psychic damage and is stunned until the end of the haghead creeper's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't stunned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

