# Elder Winter Eladrin

**description**: Eladrin, Elder Elder eladrin are powerful noble eladrin who rule over other eladrin in majestic Feywild cities filled with breathtaking elven architecture that are over a thousand years old. They strive to uphold the ideals of the Feywild in the hopes that after their death, they would reincarnate as Archfey or members of the Seelie or Unseelie Court. Traits Magic Resistance. The eladrin has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sorrowful Presence. Any non-eladrin creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the eladrin must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed by the eladrin for 1 minute. While charmed in this way, the creature has disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws. The charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to any eladrin’s Sorrowful Presence for the next 24 hours. Spell Penetration. When the eladrin casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The eladrin makes two weapon attacks. The eladrin can cast one spell in place of one of these attacks. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) slashing damage, or 5 (1d10) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 4 (1d8) cold damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) cold damage. Spellcasting. The eladrin casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: fog cloud, gust of wind, sanctuary, silence 3/day each: Snilloc's snowball swarm 1/day each: cone of cold, enervation, ice storm, sleet storm Bonus Actions Fey Step (Recharge 4–6). The eladrin teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Freezing Smite (3/Day). The eladrin deals an extra 13 (3d8) cold damage when it hits a creature with a weapon attack. If the target isn't immune to cold, it must also succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature's speed its speed is halved, it can't take reactions, and it can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. The effects last until the start of the eladrin's next turn. Reactions Frigid Rebuke. When the eladrin takes damage from a creature the eladrin can see within 60 feet of it, the eladrin can force that creature to succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or take 16 (3d10) cold damage. Legendary Actions The eladrin gains 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The eladrin regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The eladrin moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Attack. The eladrin makes a Longsword or Longbow attack. Gust of Wind. The eladrin casts gust of wind.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey (Elf)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

