# Elder Dirgesinger

**description**: Dirgesingers are twisted bards who use their haunting melodies to raise the dead and control them, creating an army of loyal undead minions at their command. Their spells and abilities allow them to strike fear into the hearts of their enemies and bolster the resistance of their undead horde against turn attempts. The Dirgesinger's eerie music can bring despair to those who hear it, and their necromantic spells can even bring fallen foes back to life as undead thralls. They are often in the company of members of cults and secret guilds that specialize in necromancy, such as the Death Priests of Orcus, who highly prize the dirgesinger's abilities to enhance the undead they summon and control. Actions Multiattack. The dirgesinger makes two Rapier attacks or two Necrotic Bolt attacks. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) necrotic damage. Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) necrotic damage, and the target can’t regain hit points until the start of the dirgesinger's next turn. March of the Dead. Up to six Undead within 60 feet of the dirgesinger and can hear the dirgesinger can use its reaction to move up to half its speed. Dirge of Death (Recharge 5–6). The dirgesinger sings a horrid, mournful lament. All other creatures within 60 feet of it that can hear it must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature is reduced to 0 hit points. On a success, a creature takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Spellcasting. The dirgesinger casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation 3/day each: animate dead (as an action), blindness/deafness, dissonant whispers, greater invisibility 1/day each: create undead (as an action), finger of death, negative energy flood Bonus Actions Dirge. The dirgesinger can perform a dirge that lasts until the start of the dirgesinger's next turn. The dirgesinger can select from one of three effects: 1. Song of Horror. Provided the dirgesinger isn't incapacitated, an enemy that starts its turn within 60 feet of the dirgesinger and can hear the dirgesinger must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end the start of its next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the dirgesinger's Song of Horror for the next 24 hours. 2. Song of Sorrow. Provided the dirgesinger isn't incapacitated, an enemy that starts its turn within 60 feet of the dirgesinger and can hear the dirgesinger must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or start wailing and weeping in grief until the start of its next turn. Until this wailing and weeping ends, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the dirgesinger's Song of Sorrow for the next 24 hours. 3. Song of the Profane. Provided the dirgesinger isn't incapaci-tated, any Undead that starts its turn within 60 feet of the dirgesinger and can hear the dirgesinger has advantage on melee attack rolls and saving throws against any effect that turns Undead.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Non-Good alignment
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

