# Elder Night Hag

**description**: As night hags age, they become powerful warlocks. They also gain the ability to induce creatures to a deep sleep with a single cackle. Elder night hags normally employ all manner of fiends as its minions, but aswangs (MME III), banderhobbs, oni, jackalweres, and redcaps have also been discovered to serve them as well. Hags, Elder Presented in this section are the elder versions of the green hag, night hag, and sea hag. Elders are hags that have grown more powerful from the knowledge and experience they have gathered through several centuries. Traits Amphibious. The hag can breathe air and water. Magic Resistance. The hag has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spell Penetration. When the hag casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Dark One's Own Luck (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the hag makes an ability check or saving throw, it can add a d10 to the roll. It can do this after the roll is made but before any of the roll's effects occur. Actions Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or fall unconscious. The creature remains unconscious for 1 minute, or until it takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the creature awake. Hellfire. Green flame explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within 120 feet of the hag. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) fire damage and 11 (2d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Change Shape. The hag magically transforms into a Small or Medium female humanoid, or back into her true form, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the hag is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Etherealness. The hag magically enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. To do so, the hag must have a heartstone in her possession. Spellcasting. The hag casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks): At will: detect magic, friends, mage hand, magic missile (5 missiles), minor illusion, prestidigitation 2/day each: ray of enfeeblement, plane shift (self only), sleep 1/day each: maddening darkness, psychic scream Nightmare Haunting (1/Day). While on the Ethereal Plane, the hag magically touches a sleeping humanoid on the Material Plane. A protection from evil and good spell cast on the target prevents this contact, as does a magic circle. As long as the contact persists, the target has dreadful visions. If these visions last for at least 1 hour, the target gains no benefit from its rest, and its hit point maximum is reduced by 5 (1d10). If this effect reduces the target's hit point maximum to 0, the target dies, and if the target was evil, its soul is trapped in the hag's soul bag. The reduction to the target's hit point maximum lasts until removed by the greater restoration spell or similar magic. Stupefying Cackle (Recharge 5–6). Each creature within 30 feet of the hag and able to hear the hag must succeed on a DC 18 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 23 (4d8 + 5) psychic damage, and falls unconscious. The creature remains unconscious for 1 minute, or until it takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the creature awake. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn't unconscious. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Reactions Fiendish Rebuke (3/Day). In response to being damaged by a visible creature within 60 feet of it, the hag forces that creature to make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

