# Elder Empyrean, Tempest

**description**: Empyreans are mortals who have been elevated to a form of godhood by a pantheon of greater deities. They are often the offspring of gods and mortals who have proven themselves worthy of divine power by performing great deeds. Once transformed, they become celestials and take on properties of their divine domain. Striving for Greatness . Empyreans are at the lowest tier within a divine pantheon. They involve themselves much more in the mortal world, in order to win glory and attention from more powerful gods. They will often walk amongst mortals at human size in order to learn the goings on of the world. Occasionally, they meddle in the affairs of mortals. For example, they might encourage wars between kingdoms, introduce powerful magical knowledge into primitive cultures, or even release powerful monsters that are better left asleep. Fledgling Pantheons . There are times when mortals strive to discover the secrets of divinity on their own. Mortals are sometimes able to do this when they ally with the other great men and women of their age. The other pantheons of a world rarely welcome such newcomers, as the multiverse has many tales of newer pantheons supplanting the old. The ensuing struggles between new gods and old can often tear a world apart. Divine Domains Every empyrean must have a single Divine Domain, which determines the spells that it can cast. Domain of Death 1st level spells: bane, ray of sickness 2nd level spells: blindness/deafness, ray of enfeeblement 3rd level spells: bestow curse, vampiric touch 4th level spells: blight, phantasmal killer 5th level spells: cloudkill, contagion 6th level spells: harm 7th level spells: resurrection Domain of Knowledge 1st level spells: command, guiding bolt 2nd level spells: locate object, suggestion 3rd level spells: glyph of warding, speak with dead 4th level spells: arcane eye, confusion 5th level spells: geas, scrying 6th level spells: find the path 7th level spells: symbol Domain of Life 1st level spells: cure wounds, bless 2nd level spells: aid, spiritual weapon 3rd level spells: beacon of hope, mass healing word 4th level spells: death ward 5th level spells: mass cure wounds, raise dead 6th level spells: heal 7th level spells: regenerate Domain of Nature 1st level spells: entangle, fog cloud 2nd level spells: lesser restoration, spike growth 3rd level spells: plant growth, wind wall 4th level spells: control water, grasping vine 5th level spells: awaken, insect plague 6th level spells: wall of thorns 7th level spells: regenerate Domain of the Sun 1st level spells: burning hands, faerie fire 2nd level spells: blindness/deafness, scorching ray 3rd level spells: daylight, fireball 4th level spells: fire shield, wall of fire 5th level spells: dispel evil and good, flame strike 6th level spells: sunbeam 7th level spells: fire storm Domain of the Tempest 1st level spells: fog cloud, thunderwave 2nd level spells: gust of wind, shatter 3rd level spells: call lightning, sleet storm 4th level spells: greater invisibility, ice storm 5th level spells: destructive wave, telekinesis 6th level spells: chain lightning 7th level spells: fire storm Domain of Trickery 1st level spells: charm person, tasha’s hideous laughter 2nd level spells: invisibility, mirror image 3rd level spells: counterspell, feign death 4th level spells: dimension door, greater invisibility 5th level spells: dominate person, mislead 6th level spells: mass suggestion 7th level spells: teleport Domain of War 1st level spells: shield of faith, thunderous smite 2nd level spells: cloud of daggers, spiritual weapon 3rd level spells: blinding smite, spirit guardians 4th level spells: freedom of movement, staggering smite 5th level spells: destructive smite, hold monster 6th level spells: blade barrier 7th level spells: divine word

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: celestial (titan)
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 4963
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

