# Elder Gray Hag

**description**: The malevolent elder gray hag reigns within its dark, twisted territory which stretches for miles and is now overrun with slimes, oozes, and undead creatures. Abyssal Servant. The elder gray hag is a powerful divine spellcaster, drawing her powers from the abyssal demon princes. In combat, she unleashes an assortment of powerful necromantic spells that can drain the life out of her foes. Her horrifying cackle can strike paralyzing fear at the heart of even the bravest of heroes. Traits Poisonous Skin. Any creature that grapples the hag or otherwise comes into direct contact with the hag's skin must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature no longer in direct contact with the hag can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spider Climb. The hag can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Actions Multiattack. The hag makes two Claw attacks. It also uses Horrifying Cackle, if available. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the target is reduced to 0 hit points. Spit Green Slime. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d10) acid damage and the creature takes the damage again at the start of each of its turns until the slime is scraped off or destroyed. Against wood or metal, green slime deals 11 (2d10) acid damage each round, and any nonmagical wood or metal weapon or tool used to scrape off the slime is effectively destroyed. Sunlight, any effect that cures disease, and any effect that deals cold, fire, or radiant damage destroys the green slime. Horrifying Cackle (Recharge 5–6). Each creature that isn't undead or an ooze within 30 feet of the hag and able to hear the hag must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target is frightened for one minute. If a creature fails its saving throw by 5 or more, the creature is paralyzed while frightened for the same duration. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the hag's Horrifying Cackle for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The hag casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: guidance, mending, thaumaturgy 2/day each: blight, blindness/deafness, detect magic 1/day each: cloudkill, contagion, harm Bonus Actions Stench Spray (Recharge 5–6). The hag emits noxious gas in a 20-foot cube originating from the hag. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature spends its action on each of its turns coughing and reeling. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

