# Elder Pestilence Druid

**description**: While most druids revere and draw their power from nature itself, the pestilence druid worships the natural urge of nature to consume. In order to maintain balance between civilized folk and nature, the pestilence druid must devour those that oppose or threaten the natural world. Plaguebringer. The spells and powers of a pestilence druid are oriented on famine, plagues, and voracious vermin such as gnats, rats, locusts, or other parasitic pests. These creatures typically swarm around and follow the pestilence druid, seemingly awaiting its command. The pestilence druid is able to magically implant eggs into a creature’s body that hatch into tiny parasitic bugs that eat their host alive. When facing groups of enemies, a pestilence druid can exhale a cloud of venomous insects that swarm and bite its targets. The most powerful pestilence druids can temporarily grow two pairs of wings that enable it to fly a short distance and can summon and command a deadly swarm of poisonous bugs that can lay waste to a town in minutes. Mysterious Hermits. Because of its very nature and the company it keeps, a pestilence druid is usually feared and shunned by society and often treated as an outcast. A few are revered and serve as tribal shamans or witch doctors. Most pestilence druids avoid civilized folk while evil ones seek them out as food for its swarm to consume. Actions Multiattack. The druid makes two Quarterstaff attacks or uses Infest twice. Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit (+7 to hit with shillelagh), reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage, 5 (1d8 + 1) bludgeoning damage if wielded with two hands, or 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage with shillelagh, plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. Infest. The druid magically implants parasitic bug eggs in one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw against disease. On a failed save, the eggs hatch and the parasitic bugs begin to eat the target from the inside out. Immediately on this turn and at the start of each of the target's turns, the target takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and is poisoned. While poisoned, the target is incapacitated. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. If an infested target is targeted by an effect that cures disease, dispels magic, or removes a curse, all the bugs infesting it wither away. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Breath of Pestilence (Recharge 5–6). The druid exhales a cloud of locusts, mites, fleas, and other venomous parasites to appear momentarily in a 30-foot cube originating from the druid. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 17 (5d6) piercing damage and 17 (5d6) necrotic damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Spellcasting. The druid casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: druidcraft, poison spray (3d12) 2/day each: blight, entangle, hold person, insect plague, speak with animals 1/day each: giant insect, harm, hold person (2 targets), spike growth Bonus Actions Shillelagh. The druid casts shillelagh using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. Reactions Acid Bombard (3/Day). When an enemy creature the druid can see moves within 15 feet of the druid, the druid can discharge a vile, noxious gas in a 15-foot cone. The triggering enemy creature must be in that area. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 10 (3d6) acid damage and is poisoned until the end of the druid's next turn. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

