# Eldritch Naga

**description**: Not all nagas were created with the same level of power and knowledge that other, greater nagas can attain. A few of these "lesser" nagas sought to improve beyond their natural capabilities and entered into a dark arrangement with an otherworldly patron. These eldritch nagas sought to attain power beyond those of the guardian and spirit nagas, at the cost of occasional services performed on the patron's behalf. Otherworldly Appearance. An eldritch naga has a body covered with elongated, heavily keeled dorsal scales that give it a unique, almost bristly appearance. Their extra features and color of their scales differ, however, depending on their otherworldly patron. Those with an Archfey patron have emerald-colored scales and antlers, butterfly wings, or long grayish hair growing from their heads. Ones who follow the Great Old One have scales that are amethyst or obsidian-colored, sporting bizarre appendages or organs on their heads, such as antennae, tentacles, or an extra set of eyes. Those with a Fiend patron have ruby-colored scales and may have tiefling-like horns growing from their foreheads as well as gleaming fiery red eyes. Mysterious Recluse. The eldritch naga is a solitary creature and avoids other nagas, who see the eldritch naga as abhorrent. It makes its lair in hidden ruins and abandoned structures deep within secluded locations. The eldritch naga ventures out of its lair only if it seeks a new one, is seeking something that will improve its power or knowledge, or is performing its patron's bidding. The eldritch naga tends to attract followers, especially ones that worship the eldritch naga's patron. These followers treat the eldritch naga as an emissary of their god and are subservient to it. Immortal Nature. A naga doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Rejuvenation. If it dies, the naga returns to life in 1d6 days and regains all its hit points. Only a wish spell can prevent this trait from functioning. Dark One’s Own Luck (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the naga makes an ability check or saving throw, it can add a d10 to the roll. It can do this after the roll is made but before any of the roll’s effects occur. Actions Multiattack. The naga makes two melee attacks: one with its Bite and one to Constrict. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. Until this poison ends, the target is paralyzed. A paralyzed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the naga can't constrict another target. Spellcasting. The naga casts one of the following spells, requiring only verbal components and Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: chill touch (3d8), eldritch blast (3 beams, 1d10 + 4 damage), levitate, mage hand, minor illusion, silent image 3/day (as 5th-level spells): banishment, fear, fireball, flame strike, hellish rebuke, misty step, stinking cloud 1/day: circle of death

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

