# Elf, Shadow Fey Executioner

**description**: A shadow fey with curled horns steps forward, cloaked in black clothing with a white cowl and paldrons. She holds a large axe at the ready, and severed heads dangle from her belt, tied by their hair. Shadow fey executioners are a common sight in shadow fey courts. Any large event attended by fey attracts a few uninvited guests. Executioners keep the host's order and sever the head of anyone who breaks the host's rules. Head of the Game. Executioners compete with one another, and wise hosts never invite multiple executioners to the same event. They gather to brag about their most recent beheadings, and any executioner attending without a new head to display is mercilessly shamed. Not Quite Dead. Though they don't house the souls of the executioner's victims, each head retains a partial imprint of that creature's personality. The heads often complain when thrown or bicker amongst themselves. Fey Ancestry. The executioner has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put it to sleep. Necrotic Weapons. The executioner's weapon attacks are infused with the essences of all those the shadow fey has slain. When the executioner hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d8 necrotic damage (included in the attack). Relentless Hunter. The executioner is relentless in pursuit of its prey. It has advantage on any Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check it makes to find a creature that shadow fey nobility have tasked it with capturing or killing. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the executioner has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The shadow fey executioner uses Animate Severed Head. It then makes two Bearded Axe attacks or two Throwing Axe attacks. Bearded Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Throwing Axes. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Animate Severed Head. The executioner pulls a head from its belt and commands the head to fly to a target the executioner can see within 30 feet. The animated severed head flies to the target and attaches to it by biting it. While an animated head is attached to a creature, that creature has vulnerability to necrotic damage and, at the start of each of the executioner's turns, each animated severed head that is attached to a creature deals 5 (2d4) piercing damage to that creature. A spellcaster with an animated severed head attached to it has disadvantage on Constitution saving throws to maintain its concentration. The executioner can have no more than four heads attached to creatures at one time. A creature, including the target, can use its action to detach the animated severed head. A detached head flies back to the executioner, flying up to 30 feet each round. Bonus Actions Recall Severed Head. The executioner commands all severed heads attached to creatures to detach and return to the executioner's belt. Shadow Traveler (3/Day). While in shadows, dim light, or darkness, the executioner disappears into the darkness and reappears in an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet. A tendril of inky smoke appears at the origin and destination when it uses this bonus action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Elf)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

