# Elise the Accused

**description**: Accused of witchcraft and burned at the stake at sunset amid a chilling mist, it is said no bones were found the next morning, and ashen footprints were seen leading away from the pyre. Elise is a ghastly mixture of ghost and burned-out skeleton with powers over fire and fog that she uses to torment the descendants of her executioners. Tethered Ghost. Though a burnt skeleton still resides at the core of her body, Elise also forms a ghostly body around it. Unlike other ghosts, which may be tethered to the world via an object or location, Elise haunts her own skeleton and is able to move around the world as she sees fit. Her ghostly nature, it is said, makes it difficult for her to move around during the day, and she often collapses into a pile of bones until sunset. Personality. Elise is solely focused on her revenge, and largely ignores attempts at conversations about any topic other than aiding her in her goals. Any mention of her attempts to torment her executioners’ descendents immediately captures her attention for a moment, but if she determines the speaker is insincere or otherwise intends to get in her way she immediately becomes hostile to them. Plot Hooks Fires at the Port. Elise has identified a merchant descended from one of her executioners and has been setting fires on his ships at night. Come daytime, no evidence of the perpetrator can be found, but heavy fogs seem to plague the harbor whenever the ships are repaired enough to leave. The merchant seeks adventuring specialists in curses to aid him with whatever plight seems to have befallen him. A Final Haunt. Elise wishes to pass on, but cannot rest until she has seen the last of her executioners’ descendents punished. However, she doesn't know who or where this person can be found. In a desperate attempt to end her search, she seeks out an adventuring party she believes will listen and aid her. A Relative of her Own. A living relative of Elise has discovered her curse and wishes to help her pass on. They are hiring an adventuring party to find her and convince her to leave her quest of torment - or to slay her undead form and force her spirit to pass on if she refuses. Tactics Elise relies on her Burning Cloud to restrict her foes’ ability to attack her and to potentially debilitate them with exhaustion, as well as to provide a focal point for her Freezing Fog. In combat, she moves at the center of the cloud, keeping an even radius around her to use it to its greatest effect. If her Burning Cloud begins to be dispersed, she flees using her Ghostly Disappearance if given the chance. When reduced to half hit points or fewer (72 hit points), she uses her Ghostly Disappearance (and Ghostly Fog if necessary) to teleport away, using her Burning Cloud from range to continue to harry her enemies. Traits Bony Corpse. Elise’s Injury thresholds are considered 5 higher for piercing damage. Mastery of Fire and Fog. Elise’s vision isn’t impaired by fog, smoke, or other similar vapors and suspensions in the air. Cursed to Remain. If Elise is destroyed, her body reforms in an explosion of fire at the site of her execution on the first sunset after the next new moon unless her curse is broken by a remove curse spell or other similar effect cast at that location within 24 hours of her destruction. When her body reforms, she appears with full hit points and no Injuries. Actions Multiattack. Elise makes two melee attacks. Burning Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Burning Cloud (1/Rest). Elise conjures a 20-foot radius sphere of fog filled with scorching embers centered on a point she can see within 60 ft. of her. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. It lasts for 1 hour, or until it is dispersed by a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour). Elise can use her bonus action on future turns to move the cloud up to 30 ft. in any direction, and can do this concurrently with her own movement. The cloud can’t move further than 120 ft. from Elise. Each creature that starts its turn in the cloud or enters it for the first time on its turn must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. A creature that fails this saving throw by 10 or more also takes a level of exhaustion as its lungs fill with ash. Reactions Blinding Fog (Recharge 5-6). When Elise is attacked by a creature within 5 ft. of her, she can use her reaction to conjure a wisp of supernaturally dense fog in front of the creature’s eyes, giving it disadvantage on its attack roll. Creatures that don’t need to see aren’t affected by this ability. Legendary Actions Elise can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Elise regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Ghostly Disappearance. Elise teleports up to 120 ft.. Her starting and ending locations must be obscured by fog, smoke, or some other similar vapor or suspension in the air. Freezing Fog. A 20-foot radius sphere of fog that Elise can see within 60 ft. of her temporarily drops to freezing temperatures, filling the air with frost before resuming its form. Each creature in the area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) cold damage and be unable to take reactions until the end of its next turn. Ghostly Fog (Costs 2 Actions). Elise summons a 10-foot radius sphere of fog at a point she can see within 120 ft. of her. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. This fog lasts for 1 minute, until she summons a new sphere with this ability, or until dispersed by a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

