# Elite Abyssal Knight

**description**: An abyssal knight was once a powerful paladin. For whatever tragic reason, the paladin lost his sanity and broke his oath. Sensing an opportunity to gain a powerful agent, a demon lord sends whispers to it and plants its seed of corruption. Driven by madness, the fallen champion begins its acts of depravity and eventually becomes an abyssal knight. It is devoid of compassion or empathy and lives only to obey its new master, further its ambitions, and sow chaos and destruction. Champion of Chaos. Gifted with magic and boons by its demon lord patron, the abyssal knight can channel and project abyssal energy with ease. It can also summon several demons that do its bidding. Unlike a commander of a unit, however, it cares not about battle tactics and sees these demons as mere pawns and fodder that it can use to distract its foes or for its consumption. Traits Abyssal Leader. The abyssal knight’s Demon allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against being charmed or frightened while within 15 feet of the abyssal knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Magic Weapons. The abyssal knight’s weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The abyssal knight makes three Greataxe attacks. It can use Abyssal Gaze in place of one Greataxe attack. Alternatively, it can make one Greataxe attack and use Spellcasting. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. Abyssal Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) necrotic damage plus 4 (1d8) psychic damage and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the abyssal knight's next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is paralyzed Abyssal Shroud (Recharge 6). The abyssal knight opens a momentary dimensional pocket to the Abyss. Shadowy tendrils emerge from the pocket, spreading into a 30-foot radius sphere centered on the abyssal knight. Each creature other than the abyssal knight in that area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 9 (2d8) necrotic damage plus 9 (2d8) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Undead and Demons ignore this effect. In addition, 1d4 quasits and 2d4 dretches appear in unoccupied spaces in the sphere. They act as the abyssal knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the abyssal knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the abyssal knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Demon (1/Day). The abyssal knight summons 1 barlgura, 2d4 quasits , 3d4 dretches , or 4d6 manes . A summoned Demon appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the abyssal knight and acts as an ally of the abyssal knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the abyssal knight dies, or until the abyssal knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The abyssal knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): 2/day each: crown of madness, false life, vampiric touch 1/day each: blight, hold person, stinking cloud Bonus Actions Aura of Abyssal Madness. The abyssal knight activates or deactivates this aura. While active, a creature that starts its turn within 15 feet of the abyssal knight takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage and must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, unless the abyssal knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target suffers the effect of the confusion spell until the start of its next turn. Undead and Demons ignore this effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

