# Elite Pale Knight

**description**: The pale knight has both the martial skills of an experienced warrior and the arcane powers of a talented necromancer. It stands tall and imposing, wearing dark ornate breastplate armor and wielding a fearsome-looking ancient scythe that seems to have a life of its own as if it is imbued with necrotic energy. Arcane Assassin. Despite its imposing appearance, the pale knight moves with the grace and speed of a dancer. Its fighting style is brutal and efficient, striking with precision and power and mixing it with its supernatural abilities and necromantic magic to dispatch foes quickly... or slowly. Undead Commander. The pale knight's most terrifying ability is its ability to summon and command the undead. It can raise fallen foes or open shadowy portals that reach into the Negative Plane and pull skeletal servants that do its bidding. The pale knight lets its minions swarm over the battlefield to overwhelm opponents while it picks off critical targets with its spells and its deadly scythe that can deliver mortal blows. Traits Undead Leader. The pale knight’s Undead allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against any effect that turns undead while within 15 feet of the pale knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The pale knight makes three Scythe attacks. It can use Necrotic Gaze in place of one Scythe attack. Alternatively, it can make one Scythe attack and use Spellcasting. Scythe. Melee Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points until the end of the pale knight's next turn. Necrotic Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d8) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points until the end of the pale knight's next turn. Nether Rifts (Recharge 6). The pale knight opens momentary dimensional rifts to the Negative Plane at three different points within 60 feet of it. Each rift is a 10-foot-radius sphere. Each creature that isn't a Construct or Undead in the rifts must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, 1d4 wights , 1d4 ghasts , and 1d4 ghouls appear in unoccupied spaces in any of the spheres. They act as the pale knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the pale knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the pale knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Undead (1/Day). The pale knight summons a number of skeletons, zombies, ghasts, ghouls, and wights whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 120. A summoned undead appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the pale knight and acts as an ally of the pale knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the pale knight dies, or until the pale knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The pale knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): 2/day each: blight, blindness/deafness, fear, ray of enfeeblement 1/day each: animate dead (as an action), circle of death, cloudkill, vampiric touch Bonus Actions Aura of Necrosis. The pale knight activates or deactivates this aura. While active, a creature that starts its turn within 15 feet of the pale knight must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, unless the pale knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage and is poisoned until the start of its next turn. A poisoned creature has vulnerability to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Constructs and Undead ignore this effect. Mortal Strike (2/Day). Immediately after the pale knight hits a target with a Scythe attack, the pale knight can force that target to make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature drops to 0 hit points. On a successful save, the creature takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

