# Elite Hell Knight

**description**: The hell knight is a once powerful fallen paladin who has pledged loyalty and servitude to an arch devil, often driven to seek vengeance on its former allies or patrons. While the hell knight works tirelessly to achieve the goals of its infernal master, it does so as a means to gain supernatural strength and power. The hell knight is ruthless in its pursuits to gain any advantage, whether in politics or martial combat. It dominates those who are weak-willed, manipulates those with hidden agendas and vendettas, and annihilates anyone who stands in its way. Infernal Champion. A hell knight is a mighty foe to face in combat. Aside from its martial prowess, it has a number of deadly supernatural abilities it can employ. One such ability is the constant presence of dread the hell knight projects, causing those who succumb to it to become unable to act. Another is the hell knight’s gaze which can project fiery beams that burn a target and make it more susceptible to fear and fire. What makes the hell knight more dangerous, however, is its ability to summon and command devils efficiently in the battlefield. Devils under the command of a hell knight fight with discipline and fervor, and do not easily break rank or flee. Infernal Rifts. More powerful hell knights are able to temporarily open dimensional rifts to Hell. Such fiery portals sear the flesh of those caught within it. Despite the short duration of the rift, it is enough for a small number of devils to pass through. These devils immediately submit themselves to the hell knight that summoned them, and become its allies. Traits Infernal Aura. An enemy that starts its turn within 15 feet of the hell knight must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, unless the hell knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target is frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the hell knight's Infernal Aura for the next 24 hours or until it takes damage from the hell knight's Infernal Gaze. Infernal Leader. The hell knight’s Devil allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against being charmed or frightened while within 15 feet of the hell knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Magic Weapons. The hell knight’s weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The hell knight makes three Greatsword attacks. It can use Infernal Gaze in place of one Greatsword attack. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Infernal Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d8) fire damage and the target has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened until the end of the hell knight's next turn. Infernal Rift (Recharge 6). The hell knight opens a momentary dimensional rift to Hell within 60 feet of it. The rift is a 20-foot-radius sphere. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, 1d4 spined devils and 1d4 imps appear in unoccupied spaces in the sphere. They act as the hell knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the hell knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the hell knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Devil (1/Day). The hell knight summons 1 barbed devil , 1d3 bearded devils , 1d4+1 spined devils , or 2d4 imps . A summoned Devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the hell knight and acts as an ally of the hell knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the hell knight dies, or until the hell knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The hell knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): 2/day each: command, fireball, scorching ray 1/day each: dispel magic, locate object, wall of fire Reactions Hellish Rebuke (4/Day). In response to being damaged by a visible creature within 60 feet of it, the hell knight forces that creature to make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

