# Elite Monster Slayer

**description**: Good-aligned monster slayers are dedicated hunters of creatures of the night and dark magic users. They hunt down undead, fiends, evil fey, and other evil threats because they believe they are a threat to the natural world. They are often encountered in desolate locales, wilderness frontiers, and other fringes of civilization, where they can offer their services. Evil monster slayers hunt any supernatural threat, such as bards, paladins, clerics, sorcerers, and warlocks, as well as any of the unnatural races, such as tieflings and aasimars. They are often employed as bounty hunters or assassins to deal with magical threats, such as a party of adventurers. Traits Magic Weapons. The monster slayer's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The monster slayer makes two melee attacks or two ranged attacks. +2 Scythe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d10 + 6) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. +2 Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d4 + 6) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. Hunter's Sense (3/Day). The monster slayer chooses one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. It immediately learns whether the creature has any damage immunities, resistances, or vulnerabilities and what they are. If the creature is hidden from divination magic, it will sense that it has no damage immunities, resistances, or vulnerabilities. Spellcasting. The monster slayer casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks): 1/day each: banishment, conjure barrage, flame arrows, hold monster, steel wind strike Bonus Actions Slayer's Prey (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The monster slayer designates one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The first time each turn that the monster slayer hits that target with a weapon attack, it takes an extra 1d6 damage from that weapon. In addition, whenever the target forces the monster slayer to make a saving throw and whenever the monster slayer makes an ability check to escape that target's grapple, it can add 1d6 to its roll. Swift Spellcasting. The monster slayer casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): 3/day: ensnaring strike, hunter's mark, zephyr strike Reactions Slayer's Counter. If the target of the monster slayer's Slayer's Prey forces the monster slayer to make a saving throw, the monster slayer can make one weapon attack against the target. The monster slayer makes this attack immediately before making the saving throw. If the attack hits, the monster slayer's save automatically succeeds, in addition to the attack's normal effects. Magic-User's Nemesis (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the monster slayer sees a creature casting a spell or teleporting within 60 feet of it, it can try to magically foil it. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or its spell or teleport fails and is wasted.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

