# Elite Gloom Knight

**description**: While most fallen paladins were corrupted by powerful fiends, a few fallen paladins were led astray by insidious beings from the spirit realms. While not undead, these gloom knights turn from the light and now embrace the enigma and dread that darkness brings. They operate only at night and in the shadows, rarely revealing themselves unless it is to their advantage. Spectral Lords. Gloom knights often serve as powerful agents of liches and sinister gods that rule the Ethereal Plane, the Negative Plane, and the Realm of Shadows. Because of their affinity to these ghostly planes, they become conduits to the Material Plane, enabling noncorporeal undead to pass through and serve as the gloom knights' minions. In addition, gloom knights can easily traverse back and forth to the Ethereal Plane. Ghostly Warriors. During combat, gloom knights can tap negative energy, allowing them to weave necrotic and shadow magic. Their supernatural gaze can render a creature helpless, and their spectral swords can temporarily prevent wounds from healing. As gloom knights grow in power, they can create dangerous shadow rifts where negative energy seeps out and harm living things. Traits Spectral Leader. The gloom knight’s noncorporeal Undead allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against any effect that turns undead while within 15 feet of the gloom knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The gloom knight makes three Spectral Greatsword attacks. It can use Haunting Gaze in place of one Spectral Greatsword attack. Alternatively, it can make one Spectral Greatsword attack and use Spellcasting. Spectral Greatsword. Melee Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points until the end of the gloom knight's next turn. Haunting Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) necrotic damage plus 9 (2d8) psychic damage and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the gloom knight's next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated. Shadow Rifts (Recharge 6). The gloom knight opens momentary dimensional rifts to the Negative Plane at three different points within 60 feet of it. Each rift is a 10-foot-radius sphere. Each creature that isn't a Construct or Undead in the rifts must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature in the area of more than one dimensional rift is affected only once. In addition, 3d4 shadows appear in unoccupied spaces in any of the spheres. They act as the gloom knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the gloom knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the gloom knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Undead (1/Day). The gloom knight summons a number of banshees , ghosts , shadows , specters , and wraiths whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 100. A summoned undead appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the gloom knight and acts as an ally of the gloom knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the gloom knight dies, or until the gloom knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The gloom knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): 2/day each: blight, hold person, vampiric touch 1/day each: cone of cold, darkness, fly Bonus Actions Aura of Gloom. The gloom knight activates or deactivates this aura. While active, a creature that starts its turn within 15 feet of the gloom knight must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, unless the gloom knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage and has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Constructs and Undead ignore this effect. Etherealness. The gloom knight magically shifts from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can't affect or be affected by anything on the other plane.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

