# Emaciated Tavern Mimic Brain

**description**: Tavern Mimics One of the rarest forms of mimic, tavern mimics are living structures that provide hospitality, benign or otherwise, in the remote wilds. These shapechanging buildings move using a variety of mechanisms: slug-like convulsions, millions of tiny cilia, or even hundreds of humanoid feet. Biomantic Origins. Tavern mimics occur when strong biomantic fields in the presence of a large structure, an unattached mind, and a mimic receive a sudden burst of magical energy. The most famous example is Jonjo Starr who, in attempting to create a lich phylactery in the biomantic laboratory of his half brother, Dr. Francis Norman Stein, accidentally fused himself to the building. Such creations are referred to as ‘mymilacteries’. Dark Contest. Tavern mimics often experience strong internal conflict. The basal, voracious appetite of the mimic desires only to consume and grow, while the mind with which it’s fused often has more complex desires. Not all tavern mimics are evil; some enjoy existence as a hub of activity, selling shelter and buying the produce on which they feed. Others aim to deceive travellers, giving into their core instincts and feeding on them as they sleep. Clever tavern mimics are selective and opportunistic predators, feeding only on strays and vagabonds who will not be missed. Lifecycle. Like all mimics, tavern mimics lay eggs. These baby mimics have a limited number of forms they can take, and often appear as a pile of gold coins. This coin form is, in fact, their dispersal strategy. Mixed into a traveller’s purse, a baby mimic can quickly find itself miles from home, and able to feed on the fingertips of consumers and pickpockets alike. Like the common cuckoo bird, a baby mimic will often push normal coins and other baby mimics out of a purse to ensure it is more likely to be spent. A Tavern Mimic’s Lair Tavern mimics set up shop along busy trade routes, at well-travelled crossroads, or in mountain passes`` where no other respite is available. Benign tavern mimics often become recognised features in the landscape, valued by travellers and traders. More hostile tavern mimics will move frequently, lest their malevolent existence be discovered. Regional Effects The area within 6 miles of the tavern mimic’s favourite spot has the following properties: Trampled Terrain. Trampled ground consisting of hundreds of unique footprints can be found criss-crossing the region. Tracking checks that aim to follow footprints other than the tavern mimic’s have disadvantage. Bleached Bones. Piles of bleached bones and inorganic matter, such as coins and gemstones, can be found in small piles in the region. Some gold coins among these caches are mimic eggs. Odd Stories. Folks that have travelled through the region often inadvertently take shelter inside the mimic. They tell tales of strange proprietors and bartenders that communicate with one another without talking, of especially comfortable beds, and of fellow travellers that “leave before the crack of dawn” and are never seen again. Lair Actions While the tavern mimic lives, it can take the following lair actions. The saving throw DC and damage of the lair actions depend on the level at which you run the hunt, as shown in the following table. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam 3rd 12 3 (1d6) 8th 14 7 (2d6) 13th 16 14 (4d6) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the tavern mimic takes one of the following lair actions; the mimic can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row. Drool. The tavern mimic secretes acid from a part of its ceiling in a 30-foot square. Each creature directly under the area must make a VDC Dexterity saving throw, taking Vdam acid damage on a failure, or half as much damage on a success. Peristalsis. A wave shudders through the tavern mimic as its hidden musculature contracts. Each non-mimic creature in the tavern must make a VDC Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes Vdam bludgeoning damage and is pushed 15 feet in a direction of the tavern mimic’s choice, where it falls prone. On a success, it is moved 5 feet in a direction of the tavern mimic’s choice, takes no damage, and doesn’t fall prone. Sink. A 10-foot square of the tavern mimic’s floor becomes incredibly soft and sticky. Each creature on the floor in the area, or that enters the area for the first time on its turn, must succeed on a VDC Strength saving throw or become restrained. A creature that ends its turn while restrained in this way sinks 2 feet into the tavern’s floor and takes Vdam acid damage. A creature that sinks below its height can’t breathe. A creature within 5 feet of a creature restrained in this way, including the restrained creature, can make a VDC Strength check, freeing the stuck creature and pulling it to the nearest non-sinking area on a success. The area is difficult terrain for all non-mimic creatures until the tavern mimic finishes a short or long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity (shapechanger)
- Alignment: alignment varies
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

