# Emerald

**description**: Meet Emerald Emerald wears her gleaming black hair in elaborate braids, and she is tall—but beyond these features, no one is really sure what Emerald looks like. Emerald always wears magical makeup to disguise her identity. She paints any visible skin white, and uses black to decorate her face like a skull. Her vivid green eyes shine in contrast with the darkness. Locals are accustomed to Emerald’s disguise, believing it’s all play to enhance the mystique of her magical shop and draw in customers. With newcomers, Emerald leans into the mystical with a low sultry voice, dramatic hand gestures casting the minor illusion cantrip, and mysterious riddles or rhymes that leave customers intrigued until she laughs, smiles warmly, and greets them with open arms. The truth is that the makeup is an essential part of leading the Magia Hand. The current Emerald is not the first Emerald to run the guild. The first Emerald was appointed roughly two hundred years ago. The current Emerald is the ninth woman to lead. She has completely earned the trust and respect of the Guides. The identity of the leader is a secret from all but the Guides, who choose a new Emerald from the membership when the leader retires. It is always a human woman with dark hair, and the magical makeup is gifted to her. The special makeup comes from centuries of tradition and arcana in its creation, similar to a family recipe passed down through the generations. Each Emerald is trained by the previous Emerald on how to create and apply it. The makeup can’t be dispelled, it’s waterproof, and only Emerald can apply or remove it. Her old identity is completely erased from record, with all agreeing to forget her old life, and she becomes the new owner of the Exchange. The current Emerald entered the Magia Hand at 10 years old, an orphan recruited as an extraordinarily skilled cutpurse on the streets. It was the previous Emerald who caught her hand in her pocket and brought her into the organization. While the current Emerald loved the familial relationship that she formed with the other members of the Magia Hand, she wants to get away as far as possible from her time living unclean and hungry on the street. That goal drives her ambition and avarice. Roleplaying Emerald Emerald is in her early thirties and very talented in being unseen, with quick hands to pick both pockets and locks. Her natural charm gave her an edge in adopting the Emerald name and persona. She’s an extrovert who truly loves being the center of attention. Quick to smile and an outrageous flirt, Emerald enjoys a good joke and loves to make a pun whenever possible. Underneath her charm, Emerald is ruthless. She shares her true name with no one and ensured that no record in the Magia Hand documents who she was. She puts her own interests—wealth and a love of expensive food and drink—above all others. While she has never killed anyone, she wouldn’t hesitate if there was no alternative. Emerald is an expert thief, though if asked she reacts with shock and deflects and denies the accusation. She revels in the risk of breaking into well-guarded locations and stealing treasures without leaving a trace. She lends her skills to Magia Hand expeditions if the payoff is good enough. When the guild is stretched thin or in need of extra hands, she hires adventurers. Ultimately, Emerald betrays the characters if they become a threat to her livelihood. If you want to use Emerald as a villain, once the players have undertaken two quests for her or they find out secret information about her or the Magia Hand, use the “Green With Envy” adventure hook to make Emerald the characters’ enemy. Tactics Emerald’s priority is to slip away before engaging in combat, retreating either to the Exchange or the Magia Hand where she has allies and the upper hand. If she chooses to engage, she fights until reduced to 30 hit points, then flees. Traits Cunning Action. On each of her turns, Emerald can use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Evasion. If Emerald is subjected to an effect that allows her to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, Emerald instead takes no damage if she succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if she fails. Minor Illusion. Emerald can cast the minor illusion cantrip at will. Her spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 13). Scimitar of Speed Bonus Attack. On each of her turns, Emerald can use a bonus action to make an attack with her scimitar of speed. Special Equipment. Emerald wears a ring of invisibility and +2 studded leather . She wields a scimitar of speed and a dagger of venom . She carries goggles of night but doesn't wear them unless needed. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Emerald deals an extra 21 (6d6) damage when she hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of Emerald that isn't incapacitated and she doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Multiattack. Emerald makes two melee attacks. Scimitar of Speed. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d6 + 7) slashing damage. Dagger of Venom. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 8 (1d4 + 6) piercing damage. Poison Blade (1/Day). Emerald causes thick, black poison to coat the blade of her dagger of venom . The poison remains for 1 minute or until an attack using this weapon hits a creature. That creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 11 (2d10) poison damage and become poisoned for 1 minute. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. Emerald halves the damage that she takes from an attack that hits her. She must be able to see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 20577
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 8

