# Emperor of the Ghouls

**description**: This man of middle years, with black hair and flesh as white as ivory, wears black and purple clothes and a silvery crown set with emeralds. His feet are sheathed in black boots, and his arms and fingers are covered in rich gold and silver jewelry. He holds a skulltopped scepter. Emperor Nicoforus the Pale rules the subterranean empire of the darakhul. Deep beneath the surface in lightless tunnels and vast chambers, the civilized ghouls of the empire carved glory from flesh and stone under Nicoforus’ leadership. He led the empire to victory against the dark elves, and now that race is all but extinct in any territory the ghouls control. Unexpected Courtesy. The ghouls are content to reside in the lightless depths beneath the earth for now, but the emperor muses about what prizes exist under the sky. Emperor Nicoforus has a soul of steel and hunger like the deepest chasms of the underworld. Despite his ambition, he is extremely civilized and urbane, treating even hated enemies with strict courtesy even up to the moment that he devours their bones. Undead Nature. The emperor doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. The Ghoul Emperor's Lair Emperor Nicoforus’s lair is his palace in the center of the White City, the capital of the darakhul empire. He is attended by elite ghoul warriors of the Iron Legion, and his subjects hold him in divine esteem. Anyone who raises a hand against the emperor soon finds themselves opposed by an entire empire. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Emperor takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects. The Emperor can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Until initiative count 20 on the following round, all creatures other than undead and constructs who take necrotic damage take an additional 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. The emperor targets a creature within 30 feet that he can see. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d8) necrotic damage. The emperor regains hit points equal to the damage. A wall of ice springs up from a surface within 100 feet of the emperor. The wall is 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick. A creature in the wall’s space when it appears must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) cold damage; then the creature is pushed to either side of the wall (the creature’s choice). Each 5-foot section of the wall has AC 10, 15 hit points, resistance to piercing and slashing damage, immunity to cold, poison, and psychic damage, and vulnerability to fire damage. The wall lasts until the emperor uses this action again, or dies. Regional Effects The region around the emperor’s lair is warped by its magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Creatures within 1 mile of the lair who are infected with darakhul fever have disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws against spells and effects generated by ghouls or darakhul. Dead bodies within 1 mile of the lair have an 80 percent chance to reanimate as skeletons or zombies 24 hours after their death. These undead never attack ghouls or dharakul, but instinctively obey their commands. Phantom lights appear within 10 miles of the lair, more frequently the closer they are to the lair. The lights shed dim light out to 10 feet. Undead within such a light gain 1d6 temporary hit points at the start of their turn; the light can’t raise an undead’s hit points above 150 percent of its normal hit point maximum. If the emperor dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair return to normal over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day): If the Emperor fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Sunlight Sensitivity: While in direct sunlight, the emperor has disadvantage on attack rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Turn Resistance: The Emperor has advantage on saving throws against effects that turn undead. Spellcasting: The emperor is a 17th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting attribute is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). The emperor knows the following wizard spells: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, message, prestidigitation, shocking grasp, true strike 1st level (4 slots): charm person, magic missile, shield, thunderwave 2nd level (3 slots): hold person, mirror image, misty step 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, fear, fireball 4th level (3 slots): blight, dimension door, phantasmal killer 5th level (2 slots): cloudkill, dominate person, hold monster 6th level (1 slot): circle of death , create undead 7th level (1 slot): finger of death, teleport 8th level (1 slot): power word stun 9th level (1 slot): power word kill Actions Multiattack: The emperor makes one bite attack and two claw attacks. He can make one attack with its scepter in place of a claw attack Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., One Target. Hit : 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must make a successful DC 18 Constitution saving throw or contract darakhul fever. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. A paralyzed creature can repeat the saving throw at the ends of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Scepter: Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., One Target. Hit : 9 (1d10 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 17 (5d6) necrotic damage. Reactions Blood Armor: When the Emperor takes damage from a creature he can see within 60 feet, the attacker takes necrotic damage equal to half the damage it did to the Emperor. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Attack: The Emperor makes one claw or bite attack Cantrip: The emperor casts a cantrip Font of Power (3 Actions): Roll a d8. The Emperor regains one spell slot of that level or lower.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Empire of the Ghouls

