# Enbysphinx

**description**: Sphinxes Enbysphinx Likes: clever riddles, polite and witty mortals, preparing impressive heroes’ feast s Dislikes : discrimination, rudeness, lies Mysterious, charming, and sharp-witted, enbysphinxes exist outside the strict binary distinction between androsphinxes and gynosphinxes. Like their binary counterparts, enbysphinxes guard mythical treasures, protect magical gateways, and serve as custodians of truths that have slipped past mortalkind. Mythical Guardians. Though generally not chaotic, enbysphinxes are usually more free-spirited and spontaneous than their strictly male and female counterparts. Some enbysphinxes may develop a sense of humor that might surprise mortals. Instead of guarding ancient temples and vaults, an enbysphinx might travel the world, posing ancient riddles to test the worth of mortals, and sharing knowledge and spells powerful enough to shape the course of history. Magic Riddles. Enbysphinxes spend eternities creating challenges and devising riddles that test the wisdom, the cunning, and the resolve of mortals. These riddles are laced with potent magic that amplifies their effects. Some enbysphinxes may add a humorous spin to their challenges to surprise mortals, or use their sharp wit to scandalize, distract, and confuse those who do not respect their challenges. Sphinx Sympathy. Mortals who treat an enbysphinx with respect and manage to solve their riddles may not only access the secrets they might be protecting, but also find themselves friends with the mighty guardian. A friendly enbysphinx may reward mortals with a heroes’ feast in their magnificent mansion or treat them to an evening of witty sphinx poetry! An Enbysphinx’s Lair An enbysphinx may protect an ancient temple or a vault filled with knowledge and treasure that has been sealed away for eons. Alternatively, some enbysphinxes travel the world and use their magnificent mansion as their own personal and portable lair in which they test the worth of mortals. An enbysphinx’s lair may be riddled with traps that are designed to challenge instead of harm those who seek the sphinx’s treasures. Any who fail those challenges may be granted second chances, but those who offend or attempt to harm the sphinx may be magically banished to a remote and possibly dangerous location. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the sphinx can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the sphinx can’t use an effect again until they finish a short or long rest: The sphinx manifests a lair-wide zone of truth that lasts for 1 hour or until they dismiss it as a bonus action. While this effect lasts, all creatures of the sphinx’s choice within their lair are under the effect of a zone of truth spell as if it was cast by the sphinx. Scintillating colors fill the lair, revealing all invisible creatures and dispelling all magical effects created by a spell of 5th level or lower. The sphinx can choose not to dispel their own magic. The sphinx casts banishment (no concentration required) on any number of creatures they can see within 120 feet of them. If a banished target is native to the plane of existence the lair is on, it reappears just outside the lair after the spell ends. The sphinx shifts themselves and up to seven other creatures they can see within 120 feet to their magnificent mansion or another plane of existence. The sphinx can use a bonus action to return to where they left, even when outside their lair, taking up to seven creatures with it. Gamemaster Tip: Decoupling Abilities from Genders The enbysphinx stat block is only a suggestion of what abilities such a mythical guardian might have. Gamemasters can just as easily represent an enbysphinx with a stat block of any other sphinx or use the proposed enbysphinx stat block for a binary androsphinx or gynosphinx. In the end, the reality of different gender identities can be used to create exciting storytelling opportunities without restricting specific abilities to specific genders. What does “Enby” Mean? Enby is the pronunciation spelling of “NB”, which is short for non-binary. A non-binary person (also known as genderqueer) has a gender identity that is neither male nor female. Non-binary people may identify as having more than one gender, as a mix of male and female genders, as a separate third gender, as completely agender, or as having a fluid gender identity (genderfluid). Some non-binary people reject the idea of gender identity altogether. Traditionally, sphinxes have been depicted as either male (in ancient Egypt) or female (in ancient Greece) mythical guardians. The enbysphinx, the non-binary sphinx, aims to add a new dimension of possibilities for fantasy storytelling without invalidating the existing mythologies of these fantastic creatures.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: typically neutral
- Expansion: 18016
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Cute Creatures Compendium

