# Endelyn Moongrave

**description**: Endelyn, also known by the names Creeping Lyn and Bitter End, is the youngest member of the Hourglass Coven. People come to her to learn about their futures, which she spells out through grotesque theatrical pageants. As payment, she snatches away a portion of each client’s free will, preventing them from taking certain courses of action in their lives. Her petitioners often learn of a dreadful fate that awaits them but find themselves unable to prevent it due to the cursed terms of their deal. Endelyn’s obsession with tragedy and hopelessness extends to her own life; she has foreseen her own demise during a solar eclipse. In the depths of her castle, a lightning-powered device called the Orrery of Tragedies clicks and turns day and night, giving Endelyn glimpses of her terrible fate. Alignment. Neutral evil. Personality Trait. “I have foreseen not only this moment but the next as well. Nothing surprises me.” Ideal. “Each of us gets to play the lead in our own tragedy, but if you can’t be bothered to put on a good show before you die, don’t waste my time.” Bond. “My world is the stage, and my theater is of paramount importance to me.” Flaw. “My death will occur during an eclipse. That is my doom, and I can’t change it, but I will do everything in my power to forestall it.” Endelyn’s Appearance Endelyn’s emaciated form is hidden under the layers of her elaborate costume. Part dress, part mechanical theater, the outfit makes her look frighteningly tall; without it, she is a hunched and withered bag of bones. She shrouds her wrinkled features behind a gauzy “theater curtain” veil. The outermost layers of her dress open to reveal a marionette theatre, and she manipulates her puppets using an arrangement of artificial hands that nestles in the folds of fabric. She travels about Yon on her ornithopter of flying . Endelyn’s Weakness The only way to dispose of Endelyn for good is to slay her during an actual solar eclipse or in the presence of a symbolic depiction of one. See the stat block for details. Traits Boon of Immortality. Endelyn is immune to any effect that would age her, and she can’t die from old age. Eclipsed Doom. Endelyn can be killed only if she is reduced to 0 hit points during a solar eclipse or while she is within 60 feet of a symbolic representation of one. Otherwise, Endelyn disappears in a cloud of inky smoke when she drops to 0 hit points, along with anything she was wearing or carrying, and reappears 24 hours later in the same location or the nearest unoccupied space. Uncanny Awareness. Endelyn can’t be surprised. Actions Multiattack. Endelyn makes two Puppeteer’s Lash attacks. Puppeteer’s Lash. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one creature. Hit : 17 (4d6 + 3) psychic damage, and if the target is Large or smaller, Endelyn telekinetically moves it up to 10 feet in any direction horizontally. Spellcasting. Endelyn casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: detect magic, mage hand 2/day each: augury, polymorph 1/day: plane shift (self only) Hourglass Coven The Hourglass Coven is a group of three hags, each one bound to an aspect of time: one reflects the past, another reflects the present, and the third reflects the future. These hags are utter wickedness distilled into corporeal forms, driven by a lust for secrets that can be used to manipulate their prey. Skabatha Nightshade, Bavlorna Blightstraw, and Endelyn Moongrave are daughters of Baba Yaga. The three became wild with jealousy when Iggwilv, Baba Yaga’s adopted daughter, surpassed them in power and carved out a Feywild domain for herself in the guise of an archfey named Zybilna. The hags wormed their way into Iggwilv’s good graces, biding their time until they could wrest the domain from her clutches. They waited until Iggwilv was lured away on an important matter to imbue Iggwilv’s Cauldron with the ability to freeze time. When their sister returned, the hags used this power to trap Iggwilv and her court in temporal stasis. The hags then carved up Iggwilv’s domain, splitting it between them. The sisters couldn’t agree on which of them should keep Iggwilv’s Cauldron , so they left it in Iggwilv’s palace and hired some unscrupulous mercenaries to watch over it. The hags loathe each other’s company, but one hag will occasionally visit another to plot against the third sister, creating a vicious circle in which Bavlorna and Endelyn plot against Skabatha, Endelyn and Skabatha conspire against Bavlorna, and Skabatha and Bavlorna bedevil Endelyn. Nothing much ever comes of these petty plots and squabbles, however. Shared Spells of the Hourglass Coven On the rare occasions when all three hags of the Hourglass Coven are within 30 feet of one another, any one of them can use an action to cast one of the following spells, requiring no material components (spell save DC 14): detect thoughts, dispel magic, finger of death, glibness, locate creature, mass suggestion . Once a spell from this list has been cast, no member of the coven can cast that shared spell again until the next dawn, when the coven regains all of its shared spells.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (hag)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 11857
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Wild Beyond the Witchlight

