# Eonic Loner

**description**: The scent of ozone permeates the space around a lone figure’s mummified-seeming visage. It is garbed in scraps of metal and leather fused with crystals, some of which flicker with wan blue light. Its expression as it scans the landscape is one of hopeless resignation. When an eonic drifter (see Tome of Beasts ) gives up any hope of returning to its home time or of saving its civilization, it isolates itself from others and becomes a reclusive wayfarer. These eonic loners continue to wander, collecting scraps of metal and leather which they use to transform their time-distorting belts into crystal-studded patchwork armor. Loners no longer see the point in hopping through time or building or maintaining relationships and are either indifferent or, occasionally, outright hostile to others. Fonts of Knowledge. Despite their reclusive natures, eonic loners know a great deal about history, much of which would be considered the future to humanoids they encounter. If they can be roused from their ennui, they may be enticed to share some of their knowledge with others. TRAITS Future State. When an eonic loner dies, its self from an alternate future is summoned to the location and time of its death. The future self has the original loner’s statistics and a full complement of hit points. Immediately after appearing, it takes a turn, assuming the original loner’s place in the initiative order. If the loner’s future self dies, another future self is not summoned. Temporal Nudge. The eonic loner swaps a spell scroll or wand with an exhausted future version of the item for a split second. When the loner is targeted by a spell that is cast from a scroll or a wand by an attacker that it can see, and if that spell allows its target to make a saving throw for reduced damage, the loner instead takes no damage on a successful save. ACTIONS Multiattack. The eonic loner makes two Time Warping Staff attacks. Time Warping Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Spring Forward (Recharge 6). Each living creature within 30 feet of the eonic loner must make a successful DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be thrust forward in time along with the loner, effectively ceasing to exist in the present time. All affected creatures reappear in their previous locations 1d4 rounds later at initiative count 20. Creatures occupying those spaces at that moment are pushed 5 feet in a direction of their choosing. Each of the affected creatures must then make a successful DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. A creature that is stunned in this way can make a new saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success. REACTIONS Spacetime Slip. When the eonic loner takes damage for the first time in a round, it can slip through time and move up to half its speed away from its attacker to an unoccupied space. If the creature targeting the loner can attack more than once with its action, such as with Multiattack or Extra Attack, this reaction takes effect after the first instance of damage is dealt.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human)
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

