# Equinal

**description**: Equinals are 8-foot tall bipedal horse-humanoid hybrids. Their heads and legs are those of a horse's, and their muscular arms end in thick iron-hard fingers that, when closed into a fist, appear like hooves. Despite their heavy-set bodies, equinals move with incredible balance and grace. Disciplined Warriors. Equinals, alongside cervidals, are the most numerous type of guardinals. They strive to be free of anger, envy, and greed and spend most of their time in deep meditation. Even though they are practitioners of the martial arts, they always do everything possible to neutralize a confrontation without having to resort to violence. Martial Artists. If combat is unavoidable, equinals always attempt to end fights as quickly as possible, knocking out or subduing their foes with their unarmed strikes before any permanent damage is done. When fighting fiends, however, they do not hold back. When outnumbered, equinals use spells to hinder, slow, or divide their foes. They are also known to emit loud whinnies that can deafen and even stun opponents. Guardinals The noble guardinals are celestials that resemble animal-humanoid hybrids. Despite their bestial appearance, guardinals are the most honorable and pure-hearted beings one will ever encounter. Native to Elysium and the House of Nature, the guardinals embody virtue and good-naturedness without being constrained by law nor distracted by the chaos of freedom. They are welcoming, mirthful, and witty. Though they always seek to resolve conflict through peaceful means, guardinals are ready to fight if needed. Due to their nature, guardinals often clash with fiends, tyrants, and evil undead. Noble Heroes. While guardinals have no strict hierarchy as do the celestial archons, they recognize the authority and follow the guardinal paragons known as Talisid and the Five Companions. From time to time, guardinals may be called upon by deities of Elysium and the House of Nature to perform noble quests, at times aiding heroes from the Material Plane. Squads of guardinals also mount lightning raids and rescue missions in the Lower Planes. Traits Magic Resistance. The equinal has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Speak with Beasts. The equinal can communicate with beasts as if they shared a language. Unarmored Defense. While wearing no armor and not wielding a shield, the equinal's AC includes its Wisdom modifier. Actions Multiattack. The equinal uses Whinny, if available. It then makes three unarmed attacks. Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, the equinal can choose one of the following additional effects: The target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or drop one item it is holding (equinal’s choice). The target must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the equinal’s next turn. Spellcasting. The equinal casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: aid, command, cure wounds, detect evil and good, detect magic, magic missile 2/day each: dispel magic, fog cloud, slow 1/day: wall of stone Whinny (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The equinal emits a piercing shriek. Each nonguardinal creature within 20 feet of the equinal must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be deafened for 1 minute. If a creature fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it is also stunned until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Neutral Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

