# Equitox

**description**: The prophecy foretold the Time of Thirst, when the horsebeast would gallop beneath the sun, wells and rivers would run dry, and men would drink only in dreams. The equitox combines the shape of a white stallion and a mangy, horned wildebeest. Harbinger of Plagues. Immortal, though perpetually dehydrated and diseased, the equitox roams the edges of water-dependent communities, spreading its illness and drying up water sources with its profane presence. Fearful fanatics sometimes devote themselves to the equitox in vain hopes of being spared during an apocalypse of drought or fire. Befouling Aura. At the start of each of the equitox's turns, each creature within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or have disadvantage on its next attack roll or ability check as the moisture within it becomes diseased. If a creature spends at least 1 minute in the equitox's aura or drinks water within the aura's area, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or contract the gullylung fever disease (see the Gullylung Fever trait). Creatures immune to the poisoned condition are immune to this disease. Gullylung Fever. A creature infected with this disease manifests symptoms 1d4 days after infection, which include difficulty breathing, dehydration, and water-themed nightmares. Until the disease is cured, at the end of each long rest, the infected creature must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or its Strength score is reduced by 1d4. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a long rest after the disease is cured. If the disease reduces the creature's Strength to 0, the creature dies. A creature that succeeds on two saving throws recovers from the disease. Magic Resistance. The equitox has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The equitox makes two Gore attacks. If the equitox hits one creature with both attacks, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or contract the gullylung fever disease (see the Gullylung Fever trait). Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Evaporation Wave (Recharge 6). The equitox exhales hot, dry breath in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in the area that isn't a Construct or Undead must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) fire damage and 22 (5d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, any water in the area that isn't being worn or carried evaporates. Legendary Actions The equitox can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The equitox regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Teleport. The equitox magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Gore (Costs 2 Actions). The equitox makes one Gore attack. Withering Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). The equitox locks eyes with one creature within 60 feet that can see it. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be stunned by extreme thirst until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

