# Erymanthian Boar

**description**: This violent and wild beast is famous for its rampages across the vast marsh of Erymanthus, destroying everything in its way. It’s truly obfuscating size terrifies all common folk who gaze upon it, and its toughness intimidates even the fiercest of warriors. In the Age of Heroes the fourth Labor of Heracles, the greatest demigod hero of his time, was to capture this titan of a boar. By using his superhuman strength, some cunning and the biggest chains he could have found, Heracles emerged victorious, bringing the monstrous creature to the palace of King Eurystheus. Thus resulting in the king being so terrified he hid himself in a bronze vessel. Now, the creature still roams the land, perhaps wiser to the dangers that people present after being set free by Heracles. Rage of Nature. The temperament of the boar is violent to a fault. If it is approached, no mercy is given, regardless of intentions or attempts at intimidation. The boar is fearless and unsympathetic, which has turned it into quite the target for many would-be heroes. Sacred Beasts of the Land Throughout the ages the world has existed, unique animals have made themselves known in legends. Stronger, faster, more majestic and, perhaps, even a little magical. The most well known of these creatures are the Sacred Beasts of the Land. This title refers to all the unique animals associated with the Twelve Labors of Heracles. Polymorphing into a Sacred Beast Players attempting to use Polymorph to become any of the Sacred Beasts of the Land will find that they cannot replicate the magic properties of the creature in question. For example, they will not be able to use the innate spellcasting feature, legendary actions or legendary resistances. Additionally, only players who have substantial experience with the creature in question should be able to attempt such a transformation. An example of such experience could be the slaying of the beast, as well as the creation of a friendly bond, but it must involve personal experience from the character. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the boar fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Charge. If the boar moves at least 20 ft. straight toward a target and then hits it with a tusk attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 5d6 (5d6) damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Siege Monster. The boar deals double damage to objects and structures. Relentless (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the boar is reduced to 0 hi t points but not killed outright, it can drop to 1 hit point instead. Actions Multiattack. The Erymanthian Boar can make three Tusk attacks. Tusk. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Brutal Rush (Recharge 5-6). The boar rushes its enemies, covering a 30-foot line that is 15 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 49 (9d10) piercing or bludgeoning damage and being knocked prone on a failed save, or half as much damage and preventing being knocked prone on a successful one. Legendary Actions The Erymanthian Boar can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Erymanthian Boar regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The Erymanthian Boar can move up to its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The Erymanthian Boar makes one Tusk attack. Reinvigorating Rage (Costs 3 Actions, 1/Day). The Erymanthian Boar gains 40 temporary hit points and a +1 to its AC for the next minute.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

