# Ettercap Spidermaster

**description**: Spidermasters are powerful ettercap druids who can summon and direct spiders to do their bidding. How they draw their divine power can't be explained, but the elves believe these foul monstrosities are gifted ettercaps with above-average intelligence who were bestowed boons by Lolth the Spider Queen herself. They serve as her agents in the surface world, dwelling in dark and gloomy forests, jungles, and swamps. Traits Spider Climb. The ettercap can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the ettercap knows the exact location of any creature in contact with the same web. Woodland Strider. Moving through nonmagical difficult terrain in a woodland environment doesn't cost the ettercap extra movement. Web Walker. The ettercap ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Actions Multiattack. The ettercap makes two attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Claws. It also uses Command Spider or Web, if it is available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The ettercap casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks): At will: druidcraft, poison spray (3d12), mold earth 2/day each: blight, jump, moonbeam 1/day each: conjure animals (spiders only), confusion, dispel magic, insect plague (spiders), spike growth Command Spider. The ettercap targets one allied spider it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the ettercap, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack or move up to its speed. Summon Spider (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The ettercap summons 2d6 giant wolf spiders or 1d3 giant spiders. The spiders appear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of the ettercap and acts as its allies. The spiders act right after the ettercap on the same initiative count and fight until they're destroyed. They remain for 1 hour, until they or the ettercap dies, or until the ettercap dismisses them as an action. Web (Recharge 4–6). Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one Large or smaller creature. Hit: The creature is restrained by webbing. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 13 Strength check, escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 10, 5 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage. Legendary Actions The ettercap can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The ettercap regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Crawl. The ettercap moves up to half its speed. Attack. The ettercap attacks with its Claws. Command. The ettercap uses Command Spider. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The ettercap uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

