# Evindra

**description**: Once the guardian of the sword, Briar , the nereid Evindra has remained trapped for many years after the blade was stolen. If the PCs can aid her, she becomes a potent ally. Nereids are a type of aquatic fey with deep ties to water. Although they are primarily aquatic creatures, their unique ability to imbue their vitality into a supernatural shawl allows them to travel on land as well. A nereid must be careful when manifesting a shawl, however, as their life essence is bound to it, so it can be stolen or destroyed to threaten the nereid. A nereid resembles a beautiful humanoid creature with long, pointed ears and webbed fingers. Traits Innate Spellcasting. Evindra’s innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 17). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: control water 1/day: conjure elemental, heal, greater restoration Magic Resistance. The nereid has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Shawl. The nereid’s shawl (AC 10, 6 hit points) contains part of her life force. If the shawl is destroyed, she takes 1d6 necrotic damage per hour until she dies. The nereid can craft a new shawl from water by making a DC 10 Wisdom check, but each attempt takes 1d4 hours to complete. Transparency. When underwater, the nereid’s body becomes transparent, effectively rendering her invisible. She can become visible or transparent on her turn without using an action. Actions Multiattack. The nereid uses Beguile, then Suggestion. Blind. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one target. Hit: the target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target is poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned, the target is blind, and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Beguile. Evindra causes any creatures within 30 feet that can see her to make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to perceive any creature other than Evindra for 1 minute or until the target can no longer see her. The effect ends if the nereid is incapacitated or cannot be seen. Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this effect. If Evindra or her allies are hostile to a creature, that creature has advantage on its saving throw. Drowning Kiss. Evindra can flood the lungs of one target within 5 feet that is willing, incapacitated, or affected by her Beguile. She touches the target, traditionally by kissing the creature on the lips. The target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or immediately begin drowning. Drowning creatures begin suffocating. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make another Constitution saving throw, ending the effect on a success. Suggestion. Evindra suggests a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two) and magically influences a creature she can see within 30 feet that can hear and understand her. Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the course of action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously harmful act automatically fails. The target must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it pursues the course of action Evindra described to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action can continue for up to 8 hours. If the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the effect ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do. If Evindra or any of her companions damage the target, the effect ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

