# Experienced Ritualist (Spiritual Medium)

**description**: Ritualists are holy people, priests who commune with the elemental spirits, making invocations to persuade them to cause spectacular and even destructive effects in the Mortal Realm. However, ritualists are rare, and seldom encountered outside of shrines, temples, and libraries. Shrine and Temple Life. Many ritualists maintain a residence at or near a major shrine of a powerful nature spirit or fortune. By tending the shrine, they maintain a strong bond with the spirit, and often wield a great portion of its power. Libraries of Mystical Knowledge. Most ritualist families maintain vast archives of spiritual lore where aspiring ritualists of their tradition can study. However, as the ritualist families compete with one another for political prestige and mystic secrets, these libraries are almost always extremely well-guarded, protected by soldiers, wards, and the most cunning snares ritualists can devise. Itinerant Priests. Some ritualists wander the land, assisting in local festivals and other religious traditions, as well as mediating between spirits and humans when conflicts arise. While most villages do not have constant access to a powerful ritualist, some ritualists dedicate themselves to visiting as wide a swath of Rokugan as their time and responsibilities allow. Table A-3: Experienced Ritualist Motivations D10 Roll Experienced Ritualist Motivations 1 Sees their spiritual responsibilities as an impediment to pursuing some other life goal. 2 Desires to uncover secret mystical knowledge, no matter how forbidden. 3 Holds grand ambitions to advance within their family’s hierarchy. 4 Wants to acquire the political clout needed to change their family’s mystical traditions. 5 Seeks the knowledge to create their own new ritualist tradition. 6 Wants to become the foremost expert on an area of mystical lore. 7 Fears the threat posed by the Shadowlands or some other dangerous corruptive force. 8 Seeks to humbly serve a particular spirit’s needs. 9 Desires to use their rare skills to help the common people. 10 Believes dogmatically in their family’s traditions. Traits Favor. The experienced ritualist has 5 favor, which it can spend to empower its invocations. Ritualist Traditions. The experienced ritualist can perform invocations. Spiritual Medium. The experienced ritualist’s invocation ability score is Wisdom (invocation save DC 14). It can perform the following invocations at will: Tier 0: commune with the spirits , cleansing rite , divine the omens , threshold barrier Tier 1: blade of the elements , caress of earth , mask of wind Tier 2: armor of stone , secrets on the wind Tier 3: the elements rise Actions Wakizashi. Melee Weapon Attack : +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) slashing damage. Lair Actions An experience ritualist can use the following lair actions if encountered in its inner sanctum, and is considered CR 4 (1,100 XP). Place of Power (1/day). On initiative count 20 (losing ties), an experienced ritualist in their inner sanctum can call upon the spirits they revere. The experienced ritualist immediately regains 1d6 spent favor and heals 3d6 hit points. Raise Protective Barriers (Recharge 6). On initiative count 20 (losing ties), an experienced ritualist in their inner sanctum can raise proactively created protective barriers. The experienced ritualist immediately performs the threshold barrier invocation with 5 additional favor to spend on its empowerments.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any species)
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

