# Eye of Gulguthra

**description**: The eye of gulguthra, also known as the gulguth orb or gulgutyrant, is the strange and horrid amalgamation of the xenophobic beholder and the loathsome otyugh. This foul aberration resembles a beholder from afar. But closer inspection reveals the creature has the otyugh's slimy, bulbous hide and a pair of rubbery tentacles that end in leaf-shaped appendages. The creature's eight retractable eyestalks are similar to the otyugh's vine-like sensory stalk, but each only holds one eye. Its oversized mouth is also identical to an otyugh's, filled with multiple rows of jagged teeth and dripping with saliva that contains a deadly concoction of various toxic bacteria. Scavenging Tyrant. Just like an otyugh, the eye of gulguthra subsists on dung, offal, and carrion. But while the otyugh might be content in coexisting with other creatures and serving as their waste disposal unit, the eye of gulguthra is a far more cunning and ambitious creature. It seeks to expand its territory and dominate other beings, enslaving and forcing them to scavenge and hunt for its food until the eye of gulguthra tires of them. At that point, they become fodder for the endlessly hungry eye of gulguthra. Sphere of Rot of Decay. In combat, the eye of gulguthra attacks similarly to an otyugh, using its powerful tentacles to capture prey and tearing their flesh with its teeth. Against more resilient foes, the eye of gulguthra uses its eight eyestalks, each of which can unleash a harmful or debilitating magical ray. Its central eye projects a dreadful cone that sickens living creatures and rots their flesh. Underdark Dweller. An eye of gulguthra can be found in the same sordid and disgusting places where otyughs might lurk, but their territory would be larger. They are more common in the Underdark, often living within the maze-like sewage tunnels beneath large drow, duergar, and illithid cities. Traits Putrefying Cone. The eye of gulguthra's central eye creates an area of rot and debilitating sickness, in a 150-foot cone. While inside the area of effect, a creature has disadvantage to Strength and Constitution saving throws. If a creature ends its turn within the area of effect, it takes 5 (1d10) necrotic damage. At the start of each of its turns, the eye of gulguthra decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. Actions Multiattack. The eye of gulguthra makes three attacks: one with its Bite and two with its Tentacle. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d8 + 2) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw against disease or become poisoned until the disease is cured. Every 24 hours that elapse, the target must repeat the saving throw, reducing its hit point maximum by 5 (1d10) on a failure. The disease is cured on a success. The target dies if the disease reduces its hit point maximum to 0. This reduction to the target's hit point maximum lasts until the disease is cured. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) piercing damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 12) and restrained until the grapple ends. The eye of gulguthra has two tentacles, each of which can grapple one target. Tentacle Slam. The eye of gulguthra slams creatures grappled by it into each other or a solid surface. Each creature must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 9 (2d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of the eye of gulguthra's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Eye Rays. The eye of gulguthra shoots two of the following magical eye rays at random (reroll duplicates), choosing one to two targets it can see within 120 feet of it: 1. Paralyzing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 2. Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 3. Enervation Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 4. Exhaustion Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 level of exhaustion. 5. Weakening Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or the target's Strength score is reduced by 1d6. The target dies if this reduces its Strength to 0. Otherwise, the reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. 6. Slowing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target’s speed is halved for 1 minute. In addition, the creature can’t take reactions, and it can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 7. Mindrotting Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or the target's Intelligence score is reduced by 1d6. The target's Intelligence score cannot go below 1. If the target's Intelligence score is 1, the target can't cast spells, activate magic items, understand language, or communicate in any intelligible way. The target can, however, identify its friends, follow them, and even protect them. Otherwise, the reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. 8. Death Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 55 (10d10) necrotic damage. The target dies if the ray reduces it to 0 hit points. Legendary Actions The eye of gulguthra can take 3 legendary actions, using the Eye Ray option below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The eye of gulguthra regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Eye Ray. The eye of gulguthra uses one random eye ray. Tentacle. The eye of gulguthra attacks with its tentacle.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

