# Eye of Frost

**description**: The eye of frost is a solitary type of beholderkin that has mostly shunned the rest of its kind. It has ivory white chitinous skin that blends well with its preferred snowy surroundings. It is almost always only found in arctic locales or in cavern complexes deep beneath frozen glaciers. It prefers to have servants and slaves though, thus it would go out of its way to conquer a local humanoid or monstrous tribe, slaying its leaders before finally taking over as its master. It wouldn't be surprising to find its lair to be occupied by winter wolves, yeti, and arctic goblins that do its bidding. As with the Eye of Flame, the Eye of Frost is valued by more powerful cold-type creatures such as white dragons and frost giants for its ability to project cold vulnerability. Thus, they are often bribed and paid handsomely for their services as lair guardians. Traits Cold Vulnerability Cone. The beholder's central eye creates an area of vulnerability to cold, in a 120-foot cone. While inside the area of effect, a creature that is not immune to cold gains vulnerable to cold. If a creature takes cold damage while inside the area of effect, it's speed is halved, it can't take reactions, and it can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. These effects last until the end of the creature's next turn. At the start of each of its turns, the beholder decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. Actions Bite . Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) piercing damage. Eye Rays . The beholder shoots two of the following magical eye rays at random (reroll duplicates), choosing one to two targets it can see within 120 feet of it: 1. Frost Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 2. Freeze Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) cold damage and is restrained for 1 minute, or half as much damage and is not restrained on a successful one. While restrained in this way, the target takes 10 (3d6) cold damage at the start of each of the beholder's turns. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 3. Telekinetic Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or the beholder moves it up to 30 feet in any direction. It is restrained by the ray's telekinetic grip until the start of the beholder's next turn or until the beholder is incapacitated. If the target is an object weighing 300 pounds or less that isn't being worn or carried, it is moved up to 30 feet in any direction. The beholder can also exert fine control on objects with this ray, such as manipulating a simple tool or opening a door or a container. Legendary Actions The beholder can take 3 legendary actions, using the Eye Ray option below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The beholder regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Eye Ray. The beholder uses one random Eye Ray. Reactions Ice Armor. The beholder adds 4 to its AC against one weapon or spell attack that would hit it. To do so, the beholder must see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

