# Eyewing

**description**: The eyewing is a repugnant fiend native to the Abyss. At first glance, it resembles a giant headless bat that has a large five-foot-diameter egg-shaped body covered with matted dark fur. Attached to it are two leathery bat-like wings tipped with razor-sharp talons and an eight-foot-long rat's tail that ends with a venom-tipped stinger shaped like a spur. A single giant eyeball with a blood-red pupil juts the front of the eyewing's body. A foul, sticky liquid continuously leaks from its eye, soaking the eyewing's body and causing it to give off a putrid stench. Witless Minions. An eyewing lives only to serve its master, which are often powerful demons. If left on its own, however, it spends its time stalking and killing prey. Otherwise, it always does what its master asks it to do without question, even if it would surely lead to its destruction. It does this not because of loyalty but out of fear and stupidity. Poison Bomber. In combat, an eyewing attacks by swooping at its prey and striking it with its talons and stinger before the target could react. Against more formidable foes, the eyewing secretes a vile mucus-like liquid from its tear duct and drops it on them like a water bomb. Those hardy enough to survive the highly-toxic liquid might still succumb to the poison's other effects. Once its prey is slain, the eyewing secretes enzymes from its tear duct and lets it drip on the corpse. These digestive enzymes breakdown and liquefy the prey's body. The eyewing then dips into the digested remains and absorbs the liquids through its eye membrane. Dark Dwellers. The eyewing may be native to the Abyss, but it can also be found in the Shadowfell and the Demiplane of Dread. In the Material Plane, eyewings can sometimes be encountered in the vast caverns of the Underdark or in ruined temples dedicated to demon princes. There have been reports that eyewings have been used as flying mounts by derros, gnolls, xvarts, and demonic cultists. Traits Flyby. The eyewing doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. Stench. Any creature other than an eyewing that starts its turn within 5 feet of the eyewing must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the creature’s next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the stench of all eyewings for 1 hour. Actions Multiattack. The eyewing makes two attacks: one with its Claws and one with its Stinger. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Tear Splash (Recharge 5-6). The eyewing drops a one-foot-diameter ball of poisonous liquid at a point on the ground directly below it. Each creature in a 5-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 14 (4d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 hour. Until this poison ends, a creature can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the creature can use either an action or a bonus action on its turn, but not both. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

