# Fallen Painmonger

**description**: Traits Spellcaster. The painmonger’s spellcasting ability is its Intelligence (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). Join the Fallen. Whenever painmonger reduces a creature to 0 hit points, inflicts an Injury, or scores a critical hit, all creatures within 120 feet that can hear or see the target of its attack must succeed on a DC 8 Wisdom saving throw or gain a Mindscar. A creature who gains three Mindscars begins to lose its mind. During its next long rest, it will begin to scar its flesh with whatever tools are available to it. Once its rest is completed, it becomes one of the Fallen. Mindscars can be removed by any process that can remove a curse, although mental trauma will still remain. If the mental trauma is overcome, the Mindscars are removed as well. Relish the Pain. Whenever the painmonger suffers an Injury, they gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls until the Injury is removed (up to their proficiency bonus), and gain temporary hit points equal to ½ the threshold of the Injury gained. The painmonger never has damage loss regardless of its hit point tier for Injury thresholds, and always suffers an Injury when it takes enough damage to become Injured (the Injury it gains is chosen by the damage dealer). Actions Serrated Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 10/20, one target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) piercing damage. This attack treats Injury thresholds as 5 lower. Agonizing Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 30 feet, one target. Hit: 18 (4d8) psychic damage, and the target’s Injury thresholds are reduced by 10 until the end of their next turn. Lacerate (recharge 4-6). The painmonger casts lacerate *. Melee Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 30 feet, one creature. Hit: 9 (2d8) slashing damage, and the creature must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury of Setback I severity, “Laceration”. Each time the Injury creature takes an action, it loses 3 (1d6) hit points. This Injury is automatically removed at the end of a short rest, or when the creature regains hit points via magic. Thousand Needles (recharge 5-6). The painmonger casts thousand needles *. One creature the painmonger can see within range must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (6d6) piercing damage and become sickened for the spell’s duration. Each time the creature takes an action or bonus action, it takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage. This damage cannot be reduced or negated in any way. The creature can make a new Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns to end the effect. A successful save halves the damage and suffers none of the other effects of the spell. Wrack (recharge 5-6). The painmonger casts wrack *. One creature within 60 feet must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or take 18 (4d8) psychic damage and be stunned until the end of the painmonger’s next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature takes half damage and is sickened until the start of its next turn instead. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs. Nociceptive Feedback (1/Day). The painmonger casts nociceptive feedback *. One creature the painmonger can see within range must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 28 (8d6) psychic damage and be afflicted with a special Injury of Handicap III severity, “Nociceptive Overload”, for 1 minute (requires concentration). A successful saving throw negates the Injury, and ends the spell. While the creature is Injured in this way, it takes a -1 penalty to ability checks, AC, and saving throws per Injury it suffers from (max -3). Additionally, as an action on each of the painmonger’s turns as long as it is within range of the target, it can automatically deal 21 (6d6) psychic damage to the target. The target makes a new saving throw against the effect at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a successful save.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 1/7/1900

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

