# Fariah Dimmerrun

**description**: A noblewoman of a major city, Fariah Dimmerrun is one of few vampires who are brazen in their publicity of the fact. Everyone in the city knows who and what she is, and she keeps their fear at a tense level, wielding it alongside her political power as a tool to bend the political currents of the city to her will. How she became a bloodlord or even a vampire is a well-guarded secret, though some say she slew one and drank its blood. Fariah is an imposing figure: a minotaur bloodlord who keeps her sanguine wings unfurled at nearly all times. During the day, she keeps a magically animated shield as a parasol above her while outdoors to keep away from the sun, and wears a resplendent set of enchanted deep black armor that moves with near-silence. She carries no weapons, relying instead on her powerful teeth and claws to deter would-be assailants. Traits Charge. If Fariah moves at least 10 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone. Labyrinthine Recall. Fariah can perfectly recall any path she has traveled. Sanguine Escape. When Fariah would die and is not in direct sunlight, submerged in running water, or slain by a silvered weapon, she transforms into a cloud of red mist, gliding toward her resting place (a coffin in a well-guarded room) at 30 feet per round. After reaching her resting place, she regains her form at midnight of the next day, appearing with all of her hit points restored. If she does not reach her resting place before the next dawn, she is destroyed. Vampiric Toughness. When reduced to 0 hit points, Fariah does not die and is instead reduced to 1 hit point unless killed by a Death Blow. She has advantage on saving throws against Death Blows unless she is in direct sunlight, submerged in running water, or the Death Blow is made with a silvered weapon. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). When Fariah fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When Fariah gains an Injury, she can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until she finishes a long rest. Stalker’s Scales. Fariah’s scale armor is enchanted to be nearly silent, and does not give disadvantage on Stealth checks. It also grants a +1 bonus to AC (included in her armor class). Actions Multiattack. Fariah makes three melee attacks, one each with her Turning Bite or Gore, and up to two of which can be with her Claws. Claw (while at least one hand is free). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 +5) slashing damage, and Fariah attempts to grapple the target. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) piercing damage. Turning Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit (this attack is made with advantage against a creature grappled by Fariah), reach 5 ft., 1 target. Hit: 12 (2d6+5) piercing damage, plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage, and the target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take an additional 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. A successful saving throw halves the damage taken. Fariah then regains hit points equal to half the total necrotic damage dealt by the bite. If a creature fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it gains a special Injury of Setback I severity, "Turning", which can be gained up to 3 times, increasing in level each time (Turning 1, Turning 2, Turning 3). When a creature has 3 levels of Turning, it dies, rising at midnight of the next day as a vampire in service to Fariah. The "Turning" Injury can only be healed with a successful Wisdom (Medicine) check made in conjunction with either a healing spell or potion, or a by spell that removes curses. A creature with 3 levels of the Turning Injury can’t be brought back to life unless the Turning Injury is removed first. Sap the Lifeblood (Recharge 5-6). Fariah chooses up to two Injured, living creatures within 30 feet, and draws blood from their wounds. Each target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 14 (4d6) necrotic damage, and have their maximum hit points be reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken until they finish a long rest. Fariah then regains hit points equal to half the damage dealt. A successful saving throw halves the damage and negates the maximum hit point reduction. A creature whose maximum hit points are reduced to 0 dies. Charm (3/Rest). Fariah targets one humanoid she can see within 30 feet of her. If the target can see Fariah, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be charmed by Fariah. The charmed target regards her as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although the target isn’t under Fariah’s control, it takes her requests or actions in the most favorable way it can, and it is a willing target for her Turning Bite attack. Each time Fariah or her companions do anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 1 hour or until Fariah is destroyed, is on a different plane of existence than the target, or takes a bonus action to end the effect. Dire Transformation (1/Rest). Fariah transforms into either a swarm of bats or a dire bat, retaining her hit points and mental ability scores. This transformation lasts for 1 hour, or until Fariah ends it as a bonus action. Fariha can use her Turning Bite attack in place of the new form’s attack. Bonus Actions Sanguine Pool (Recharge 5-6). Fariah melts into a 10-foot radius pool of blood, gaining the ability to enter other creatures' spaces, becoming unable to be targeted by attacks, and gaining resistance to all damage other than radiant. She also becomes immune to the grappled, restrained, stunned, and paralyzed conditions. Each creature Fariah chooses that starts its turn in the pool or enters it for the first time on its turn must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. Fariah regains her form at the beginning of her next turn. While in this form, her movement speed is halved and she can’t fly, use the Supernatural Speed action, or make attacks. Reactions Animated Shield. When Fariah would be hit by an attack, she can cause her animated shield to intervene, giving her a +4 to her AC against the attack. Legendary Actions Fariah can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Fariah regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Supernatural Speed. Fariah moves up to her movement speed without provoking opportunity attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: undead (shapechanger)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

