# Fata

**description**: Fata Fata are among the mightiest fey, often ruling their kindred as sovereigns. Some legends speak of them as of the original spellcasters, who set the rules for magic and taught the first spells to mortals, while others see them as fallen celestials exiled from the Upper Planes, or lesser deities charged with watching over the elements of the world and the destinies of mortals. Folk tales speak of fata as the good counterpart to hags; actually, it is said that all evil fata eventually degenerate into hags. This would explain why very few evil fata do exist. Fata are always female, without exceptions. Private Demesne . Fata tend to live in their own guarded lands and private demiplanes, connected both with the Material Plane and the First World, where they build secluded castles and hold court, surrounded by other fata, lesser fey at their service or, sometimes, living alone (neutral and evil fata in particular tend to isolate themselves from the outer world and loathe visitors). As guardians of destiny, they can devise trials for heroes that manage to find their abodes, dispense wisdom and knowledge of the future, or give warnings and punishments to kings and princes who stray from the right path. Other fata are known to bestow magical arms and armor, magical mounts, or other powerful items to destined mortals; some of them ward time-forgotten artifacts, waiting for the champion who will claim them. For Good or Ill. Though mostly benevolent, fata are notoriously fickle and capricious. Offending one of them can lead to having your whole family cursed for generations. On the other hand, someone being properly respectful towards these most potent of fey may gain their protection not only for themselves, but for their children and descendants. A fata who accepts to be the godmother of a mortal child will watch upon her ward for their entire life, and assist them in their distress (though she might not be allowed to spare them that distress). While fata can’t directly interfere with the destiny of mortals, they know the critical joints when destiny can be subtly influenced and exploit this knowledge, often in their own mysterious ways. A fata sometimes falls in love with a worthy mortal. The child of such a union may inherit great magic potential but doesn’t become a fata save in exceptional circumstances. Faerie Courts and the Faerie Quenne Faerie courts are the equivalent of hag covens and can count up to seven members, even if more numerous ones are not unheard of. Mainly a faerie court is composed by fate, but sometimes also hamadryads, nymphs, or other powerful female fey with witch levels can be part of a faerie court. All members of the same faerie court must have the same alignment with respect to good and evil, but not necessarily with respect to law and chaos. They have not to choose the same patron of other court members. Whenever at least three members of a particular court are within 10 feet of one another, each one of them adds the spell patron of all the others to her list of spells known, and all the court members use the highest caster level and spellcasting score (Int or Cha) among them for the purpose of determining their caster level, spell save DCs, and spells per day. In addition, the court can select up to 40 spell levels from the cleric, druid, sorcerer/wizard, and warlock spell lists. Once made, the choice is set. At least three court members can cooperate to cast these spells as spell-like abilities. All participating court members must take a full-round action to take part in this form of cooperative magic. The court spell-like abilities function at CL 9th (or at the highest CL available to the most powerful participating members). The save DCs are Charisma-based, and are adjusted by the highest Charisma score among all the participating court members. At the GM’s discretion, certain more powerful faerie courts might have additional spell-like abilities. The most powerful fata of all is called the Faerie Queene (la Regina delle Fate). She is considered one of the Eldest and all fate must obey her commands. Her court is served and guarded by numerous fey creatures and fey animals of many different kinds. La Regina delle Fate Alignment CG Pantheon Eldest Areas of Concern Destiny, happy endings, promises Domains Knowledge, Trickery Favored Weapon Light mace Symbol Wand with a star on top Sacred Animal Songbird Sacred Colors Blue, silver Fey Obedience You can spend 1 hour trying to purposely lose yourself in the woods and sing a song in a place where only wild animals can hear you and then find your way out without help. If you succeed on a DC 15 Charisma (Performance) check and DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check, you gain a +1 bonus on Charisma checks for 24 hours. Spellcasting (Boons) Whilst in a Fate Coven the fata is a 20th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma. The Coven knows the following spells: 1st level (4 slots): ceremony, sanctuary 2nd level (3 slots): aid, protection from poison 3rd level (3 slots): beacon of hope, haste, protection from energy 4th level (3 slots): aura of purity, death ward 5th level (3 slots): circle of power, mass cure wounds 6th level (2 slot): forbiddance, word of recall 7th level (2 slot): teleport, temple of the gods 8th level (1 slot): demiplane, holy aura 9th level (1 slot): mass polymorph Fey Boons and Banes These effects are granted by a fata using the unique spells fey boon and fey bane. Boon: A fata's boon has the effect of one amont ht efollowing effects from the enhance ability spell: bear's endurance, bull's strength, cat's grace, eagle's splendor, fox's cunning, or owl's wisdom. The boon has a duration of 24 hours. Bane: You give off a bad odor, speak harshly, spit filth from your mouth when you talk, or are afflicted by some other minor curse that makes you slightly repulsive to others. You take a -2 penalty on all Charisma checks except for Charisma (Intimidation). This bane lasts for 20 days but can be ended with remove curse.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 30635
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Mediterranean Monsters

