# Fathomer

**description**: Fathomers are cultists who have sealed a pact with Olhydra, Princess of Evil Water. In addition to their spellcasting abilities, fathomers have the ability to transform their bodies into water, taking serpent-like shapes. In their water serpent forms, fathomers gain many of the resistances elemental creatures possess, as well as the ability to grapple and crush their enemies with their watery bodies. Fathomers often serve as spies, infiltrators, and assassins for the water cult, since they can slip under locked doors or pass through bars and similar obstacles with ease. Crushing Wave Cultists The Cult of the Crushing Wave venerates the element of water as a force of destruction and evil. Only fools or lunatics worship the idea of destruction, and many of the Crushing Wave cultists can be described as such. Others are more calculating and deliberate in their evil, and see the power of Elemental Evil as a tool by which they can sweep away the existing order of things and make themselves rulers over all. While the Crushing Wave cultists take in many people who are bitter, lost, or mad, they also seek alliances with evil or destructive sea creatures. They perform rites designed to sink ships, cause terrible floods, or summon destructive rainstorms, seeking to make all who live nearby bow to the power of elemental water. Cult lairs usually feature great pools or lakes, where devotees use water-breathing magic to immerse themselves in the element they worship. Crushing Wave cultists embrace a philosophy of elusiveness, patience, and opportunism. They are quick to retreat when challenged, but soon return to strike again. They admire the patience and endurance of the Black Earth cult, but despise the Cult of the Eternal Flame. They see the followers of elemental fire as reckless and short-tempered. Traits Shapechanger (2/Day). The fathomer can use its action to polymorph into a Medium serpent composed of water, or back into its true form. Anything the fathomer is wearing or carrying is subsumed into the serpent form during the change, inaccessible until the fathomer returns to its true form. The fathomer reverts to its true form after 4 hours, unless it can expend another use of this trait. If the fathomer is knocked unconscious or dies, it also reverts to its true form. While in serpent form, the fathomer gains a swimming speed of 40 feet, the ability to breathe underwater, immunity to poison damage, as well as resistance to fire damage and bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons. It also has immunity to the following conditions: exhaustion, grappled, paralyzed, poisoned, restrained, prone, unconscious. The serpent form can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop there. In addition, if water can pass through a space, the serpent can do so without squeezing. Olhydra’s Armor (Human Form Only). The fathomer can cast mage armor at will, without expending material components. Spellcasting (Human Form Only). The fathomer is a 5th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). It has two 3rd-level spell slots, which it regains after finishing a short or long rest, and knows the following warlock spells: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, eldritch blast, mage hand 1st level: armor of Agathys, expeditious retreat, hex 2nd level: invisibility 3rd level: vampiric touch Actions Constrict (Serpent Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 12). Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the fathomer can’t constrict another target. Dagger (Human Form Only). Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

