# Faux-Garou

**description**: A construct of carved bone and woven sinews lumbers forward. The mangy wolf pelt is draped across its head and shoulders, giving it the vague profile of a werewolf. It raises a clawed skeletal hand, ready to strike. The product of a fringe order of druids, the faux-garou is fashioned from the remains of hunted animals. Bones are carved with Druidic runes, arranged in a roughly humanoid form, and draped with an animal hide. The druids imbue the final product with life under a full moon, when it rises prepared to hunt and kill. Counterfeit Lycanthrope. A faux-garou's form resembles a lycanthrope in its hybrid form. To that end, the druidic magic within the construct also allows it to transform into the beast it resembles. Even in this form, it is obvious that it is not a living creature, but a facsimile. Hunter and Guardian. The primary task of the faux-garou is to track and destroy those that hunted and killed the animals that make up its form. A faux-garou obeys the commands of anyone involved in the ritual that created it. Once its original prey is destroyed or run off—as determined during its creation—the faux-garou can hunt and kill other targets. The faux-garou can also serve as a guardian, patrolling the druid circle's territory and defending it against those that would hunt and despoil the wilderness. Construct Nature. The faux-garou doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Druidic Vengeance. The faux-garou knows the scent and appearance of each creature it was created to kill. It has advantage on attack rolls against such creatures and on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to find and track them. Immutable Form. The faux-garou is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The faux-garou has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Necrotic Weapons. The faux-garou's weapon attacks are magical. When the faux-garou hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 3d6 necrotic damage (included in the attack). Actions Multiattack. The faux-garou uses Frightening Gaze. It then makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Frightening Gaze. The faux-garou fixes its gaze on one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the faux-garou's Frightening Gaze for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The faux-garou transforms into a Large or smaller Beast matching the type of lycanthrope it resembles, such as a wolf for a faux-garou that resembles a werewolf, or back into its true form. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are the same in each form. While transformed, it retains a constructed appearance and claws at the end of its forelimbs. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

