# Favored Adult Dragon of Tiamat

**description**: Multi-headed Dragons Multi-headed dragons, sometimes called polycephalic dragons by scholars and wizards, are extremely rare and dangerous dragons. Unlike the dracohydras that were created through arcane experiments, multiheaded or polycephalic dragons were either already born that way or created by Tiamat herself. Multiple Personalities. Each head of the dragon can share the same personalities or are entirely different from each other. One can be dominant over the others, or each head sees the other ones as their equals. Find the templates for multi-headed dragons here: Two-Headed Dragon Template Three-Headed Dragon Template Favored Dragon of Tiamat Template Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Multi-Headed. The dragon has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. For each head the dragon has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes three attacks: two with its Claw and one with its Tail. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. The dragon’s legendary action options are associated with its three dragon heads (a bite and a breath weapon for each). Once the dragon chooses a legendary action option for one of its heads, it can’t choose another one associated with that head until the start of it's next turn. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) lightning damage (blue dragon head), fire damage (red dragon head), or cold damage (white dragon head). Blue Dragon Head: Lightning Breath (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon exhales lightning in a 90-­foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 49 (9d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Once this breath weapon is used, the dragon can't use it again until all other breath weapons have been used. Red Dragon Head: Fire Breath (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon exhales fire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Once this breath weapon is used, the dragon can't use it again until all other breath weapons have been used. White Dragon Head: Cold Breath (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon exhales an icy blast in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 40 (9d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Once this breath weapon is used, the dragon can't use it again until all other breath weapons have been used.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

