# Favored Spawn of Kyuss

**description**: Spawn of Kyuss are mostly victims of their god's corruption, but those who are favored by their master are tougher, stronger, and have other special abilities. These former fanatics who were high priests of Kyuss project a persistent aura that can haunt and terrify creatures. In addition to the typical abilities of a spawn of Kyuss, it can also expel worms from its body, striking and burrowing into the bodies of any who are unfortunate enough to be close. Traits Fear Aura. A creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the spawn of kyuss must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened until the start of the creature's next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Infested Form. A creature that touches the spawn or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or become infected by a worm (see effects of Burrowing Worm). Regeneration. The spawn of Kyuss regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn't in sunlight or a body of running water. If the spawn takes acid, fire, or radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the spawn's next turn. The spawn is destroyed only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Worms. If the spawn of Kyuss is targeted by an effect that cures disease or removes a curse, all the worms infesting it wither away, and it loses its Infested Form feature and its Burrowing Worm and Wormburst actions. Unusual Nature. The spawn of Kyuss doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The spawn of Kyuss makes two Claw attacks and uses Burrowing Worm. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Burrowing Worm. A worm launches from the spawn of Kyuss at one humanoid that the spawn can see within 10 feet of it. The worm latches onto the target's skin unless the target succeeds on a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. The worm is a Tiny undead with AC 6, 1 hit point, a 2 (-4) in every ability score, and a speed of 1 foot. While on the target's skin, the worm can be killed by normal means or scraped off using an action (the spawn can use this action to launch a scraped-off worm at a humanoid it can see within 10 feet of the worm). Otherwise, the worm burrows under the target's skin at the end of the target's next turn, dealing 1 piercing damage to it. At the end of each of its turns thereafter, the target takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage per worm infesting it (maximum of 10d6). A worm-infested target dies if it drops to 0 hit points, then rises 10 minutes later as a spawn of Kyuss. If a worm-infested creature is targeted by an effect that cures disease or removes a curse, all the worms infesting it wither away. Wormburst (Recharge 5–6). The spawn of Kyuss expels worms from its body, striking creatures around it. Each creature within 10 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, 1d4 + 1 worms latches on the target's skin (see effects of Burrowing Worm).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

