# Fehenra Immizil

**description**: Fehenra "the Serpent” Immizil is a ruthless and cunning dark elf who crafts and sells – and when circumstances demand it, applies – poisons, toxins, and other dangerous substances. A one-woman operation, Fehenra makes all her wares in her secret laboratory and doesn't have a storefront that customers can visit. Instead, the Serpent works by referral or commission, and meets up with customers carrying a selection of her products in a magically protected case. Characters can meet Fehenra virtually anywhere, albeit the poisoner prefers larger cities or settlements. The characters may hear about " the Serpent ” from an acquaintance or, if she learns that they have need of her services, she may seek the adventurers out herself. Background Fehenra Immizil began her life as a nameless servant in a minor drow house. An orphan born into servitude, there was nothing remarkable about the scrawny dark elf youth who seemed destined to spend her days cleaning her mistresses' floors, chamberpots, and kitchen pans. Near-invisible as she scuttled down the house's maze of hallways from one errand to another, few took notice of young Fehenra. It remained so, even when members of the household began mysteriously falling sick and, eventually, dying. First, the house chef, whose nimble fingers were always reaching for the young servers when they walked by. Then the head butler, a surly old drow crone whose greatest pleasure was doling out verbal and physical abuse, also fell ill. Only when the house's eldest daughter, a haughty and cruel priestess of the Spider Queen, became too sick for even clerical magic to aid her, did the house's matriarch finally take notice. Through divination magic, it was discovered that innocent little Fehenra had poisoned these malignant individuals with poisons she'd brewed herself from kitchen scraps – and without leaving any traces. More impressed than angry, Matron Mother Immizil decided to adopt Fehenra. Over the following decades, the servant-turned-noble served her adopted mother well, as dozens of the noble house's rivals succumbed to mysterious, incurable "diseases”. In the end, however, Matron Mother Immizil overreached and angered a powerful drow house, which launched a full-scale assault on House Immizil, slaying most of its inhabitants. Escaping by the skin of her teeth, Fehenra fled the city and never looked back. Free at last, Fehenra worked as an assassin only until she'd secured enough funds to pursue her true passion: crafting insidious poisons and alchemical substances. Roleplaying The Serpent Youthful, soft-spoken, and plain-clothed, Fehenra is often overlooked in a crowd – especially when her long, white hair covers the side of her face that is marred by deep, red scars. Only when the young dark elf's eyes harden and a coldness creeps into her whispering voice does one get a hint at the true prowess – and deadliness – of the diminutive poisoner. Though she has left dozens of unwitting victims in her wake, Fehenra is not a murderer at heart. It's not that she has any qualms about taking a life, more so just that the act itself does not bring her any satisfaction. Her passion lies with the creation of poisons and toxins, and she is content to leave others to actually use them. When dealing with strangers, Fehenra typically wears one of two masks: either she appears demure, unsure, and subservient – as if she is no threat at all – or she appears supremely self-confident, nonchalant, and subtly threatening – as if nothing could possibly harm her. Which mask she chooses depends entirely on what she believes will serve her best in the situation. Whatever her demeanor, Fehenra rarely shows any hint of emotion, be it anger, despair, or joy, and seems almost incapable of laughter. Occasionally, a hint of dark humor may bubble to the surface, contained within dry remarks such as "this vial contains enough poison kill an elephant – or a dozen feasting drow with more appetite than sense, as it were” or "when you open it, don't inhale the fumes – unless of course it's your sense of smell you're trying to kill.”

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Elf)
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 27827
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Wanderer's Guide to Enchanted Emporiums

