# Fell Maelgral

**description**: The Fell Maelgral appears in Midnight - Legacy of Darkness The Fell The initial shock of death and the subsequent realization that one has become undead is a crushing psychological blow and insanity is usually immediate, leading quickly to extreme paranoia, violent rage, and bloodlust. A Fell creature retains its basic intelligence and many of its memories, but as its body starts to decay, so does its mind. Fell feel a magical craving for the flesh of sentient creatures, for only by consuming the living can an undead creature maintain its foul existence. This hunger quickly becomes the driving motivation behind the actions of the Fell and continues to compel it, even after its mind has rotted away. The longer it resists the craving, the more its body and mind deteriorates. The creature thus decays and gradually loses its intelligence and true sentience, as well as the associated memories and conscious control over its actions. As the creature reaches increasingly lower levels of mental ability scores, it deteriorates into more and more feral states until, eventually, it is nothing more than a walking, eating corpse. Behavior of the Fell The Fell are known by three broad types; ungral, faengral, and maelgral. The ungral are the recently risen, or those who continue to eat living flesh and retain their minds. The faengral have lost most of the memories of their former selves, along with any loyalties to friends or causes, and decayed in form into gaunt ghouls. The maelgral are fully devolved into the “walking dead,” little more than stumbling zombies. Ungral, the first stage of unlife for most risen characters, are typically intelligent enough to hunt on their own, stalking their prey on the edges of civilization, sneaking into and raiding outlying farms or hamlets in the dark of night. Many of these cunning creatures have even learned to hide beneath the surface of swamps, lakes, and other bodies of water during the day. Faengral and maelgral, as their intelligence drops to the level of animals, often turn to hunting in savage, roving packs, where their decaying mental abilities and limited Dexterity are made up for by numbers. Hiding in woods, ruins, or empty caves during the day, these packs shamble deliberately into villages and outposts as darkness falls, attacking without warning. These nightmare bands have forced many human settlements to build high walls and lock their gates when night comes. When they attack, the faengral and maelgral bring down their prey by swarming them, and in their frantic compulsion to feed, they often end up in savage fights among themselves. The Fell are creatures of darkness, preferring to hide in dim and secret places during the day, avoiding the sun whenever they can, biding their time before stalking into the night to hunt. Though light does not physically harm the Fell, they seem almost afraid of it and it clearly affects their ability to see. Undead will often shy away or even flee from sunlight, and even bright torchlight and lamplight seems to affect them. Undead The SRD presents undead creatures as separate entities with no defined relationship. In the world of Midnight , the more common undead creatures are each actually part of a continuum of decay and corruption, both physical and spiritual. While undead once existed in Midnight thanks to the normal means of restless spirits and foul necromancy, the Sundering has caused them to be far more common thanks to a corruption of the natural cycle. Whereas once all souls ascended to some higher place or joined the spirits of their ancestors as part of the Eternal, now they are trapped, either in body or in spirit, to the world that birthed them, unable to pass the veil brought down by the Sundering. The Horror of Undeath Undead are an important, tone-setting part of Midnight . The desperate and vile nature of their existence lends the world a bleak aspect that few other creatures can provide. It is therefore important that GMs use them effectively, giving undead the power and emphasis they need to truly frighten and threaten the player characters. The most important thing is to make them realistically frightening. These are horrible creatures that are not only physically revolting but are driven to literally eat the player characters’ flesh! GMs should avoid falling into the trap of simply calling such creatures “zombies” or “ghouls.” They should describe them as they appear and let the players decide what their characters are encountering. Describing an undead as a “shambling figure of sinew-covered bones, hung with tatters of dried flesh, red eyes glinting in a broken skull” is much more evocative than simply calling it “a skeleton.” GMs should also play up the threat level of these creatures. Remember, they want to eat the flesh of the living and can be cunning night stalkers or savage, animalistic pack hunters. Some undead have dangerous magical powers and are less vulnerable to certain kinds of damage. They can carry disease and can be psychologically traumatic to encounter. Remember that these creatures can be, at least in the earlier stages of decay, intelligent and therefore they should be able to stalk their prey and fight with more cunning than they are typically given. Well fed and relatively fresh ungral might even be able to pass cursorily in civilized places as they cleverly attempt to find prey. Keep in mind, too, that the Fell can speak. For a uniquely disturbing scene, a GM should set up an encounter with undead that doesn’t necessarily lead immediately to combat. Setting things up so that the characters have to parley with the undead makes for a horrifyingly strange, tension-filled, and memorable encounter. Undead of Eredane With nowhere to go, the spirits of the dead far too often remain tethered to their bodies or emerge as the Lost, dangerous incorporeal undead with an unpredictable but often dangerous attitude toward the living. Whenever an intelligent creature with a soul dies, if it has enough strength of will, the soul of the deceased departs their body and vanishes into the maelstrom of trapped but harmless spirits that wreath the world of Aryth like an incorporeal halo. However, if their strength fails, the deceased is doomed to rise as a Fell within one or more days unless it is beheaded, or its body is destroyed by fire. In addition, there is always a chance, no matter how strong the soul’s willpower, that it becomes trapped and doomed to rise as a tormented shade, one of the Lost, within one year of the person’s death. Traits Fell Curse. If the fell spends at least one action consuming flesh from a recently living creature with an Intelligence score of 6 or greater, it regains 1d8 hit points. For every week it goes without doing this, it must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. If it fails it devolves into a barely moving skeleton covered with a few strips of tattered flesh that thrashes about weakly for years as the bones slowly grow brittle with age and eventually crumble to dust. Undead Fortitude. If damage reduces the fell to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage is radiant, fire, or from a critical hit. On a success, the fell drops to one hit point instead. Actions Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) bludgeoning damage. Jagged, Hungry Teeth. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (3d4+2) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 1/4

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

