# Fey Lady, Mother Moth

**description**: The matriarch's gossamer gown and shawl of shimmery wings float as she strides through the moonlit garden. Wherever the sparkling dust from her wings fell, moths gathered. Duchess Calpe Belinapter, known by most as Mother Moth, is a regent with subjects but no kingdom. Ousted by the devious political machinations that are commonplace in the courts of the fey, she is bereft of all but her natural holdings. Though her status is in decline, Mother Moth still contends with her fey brethren with clever application of nature magic, an unassuming spy network of beasts and fey, and an abundance of patience. Partisan Without a Parlor. Mother Moth, despite having lost many of her noble virtues, still retains several of her titles. Her subjects know her as Queen-Mother of Moondust and Starlight, Lady Lacewing, and Her Mottled Majesty, and deferring to her in this way is sure to earn her favor most of the time. She communicates to her followers and rivals via delivered letter and is well known for her mercurial and varied tones of address. Monarch of Metamorphosis and Silk. Those who suffer lycanthropy in its many forms often seek out Mother Moth for her wisdom, compassion, and, sometimes, cure. Mother Moth's command and regal presence over moths, spiders, and other silk-producing creatures is so absolute that many often wonder if she is in fact an animal lord and not a fey lady. Any who present such questions before her or even within her realm provoke a swift and decisive rebuke. The Mother's Lair Mother Moth resides within the Silken Sanctuary, a mixed grove of young and elder trees cocooned in thick silk in the Plane of Shadow. The sanctuary is a small and modestly furnished place that travels as the Mother Moth sees fit, never venturing beyond the forest borders in which she currently resides. Beasts and fey with more neutral alignments are drawn to the lair, feeling a compulsion to protect it. When encountered in her lair, Mother Moth has a challenge rating of 12 (8,400 XP) Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Mother Moth takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Mother Moth can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Censuring Letter. Mother Moth drafts a letter of condemnation, cursing a creature she can see within 60 feet of her. Choose one ability score. The cursed creature takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage each time it makes an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw using that ability until initiative count 20 on the next round. Moonlit Pools. Mother Moth creates up to three 10-foot radius pools of moonlight centered on any three points she can see within 120 feet of her. The light inside each pool is dim, while the light within 30 feet of each pool is reduced: bright light becomes dim light, and dim light becomes darkness. These pools last until Mother Moth uses this lair action again or until she dies. Webbed Ground. The ground within 60 feet of Mother Moth becomes sticky with webbing. Each creature that starts its turn in the webs or that enters them during its turn must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be restrained by webbing. The webbing can be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; hp 5; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage). The webs remain until she uses this lair action again or until she dies. Regional Effects The region containing the Mother Moth' lair is influenced by her nurturing presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: Dream Letters. Neutral humanoids and fey that finish a long rest within 5 miles of the lair wake up with a letter addressed to them, detailing their dreams and an according interpretation. Moth Senses. While in her lair, Mother Moth can magically connect with any moth anywhere, including across planes, sensing through its senses and speaking telepathically with and through it. Verdant Flora. Foliage is healthier, growing dense enough that it becomes difficult terrain within 1 mile of Mother Moth's lair. If Mother Moth dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. Cedar Weapons. Mother Moth is vulnerable to weapons made from the wood of the cedar tree. When she is hit by a weapon made of cedarwood, Mother Moth takes damage as if the weapon was magical. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Mother Moth fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Mother Moth has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Rejuvenating Chrysalis. If killed while within a forest on the Plane of Shadow, a chrysalis appears within the confines of the forest, and Mother Moth emerges from it after 48 hours, regaining all her hp and becoming active again. Only the complete destruction of her chrysalis (AC 10, hp 30) prevents this trait from functioning. Shimmering Defense. Mother Moth's wings emit a sparkling dust, giving her a slightly blurred appearance. Her AC includes her Wisdom modifier. Silk Sovereignty. Mother Moth can communicate with all silk-producing beasts as if they shared a language. Silk-producing beasts cannot willingly attack Mother Moth, though they can be forced to do so through magical means. In addition, Mother Moth ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing and can't be restrained by webs or other silk-based material, such as a silk net. Actions Multiattack. Mother Moth makes three Hornworm Scepter attacks or two Moon Bolt attacks. If she hits one creature with two Hornworm Scepter attacks, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or lose its lowest-level available spell slot. Mother Moth then regains hp equal to four times the level of the lost spell slot. Hornworm Scepter. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) radiant damage. Moon Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 150 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d10) radiant damage. If the target is a creature in a form other than its natural form, it takes an additional 5 (1d10) radiant damage and must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or revert to its natural form. When the moon bolt hits a target, moonlight glows in that space, shedding dim light until the start of Mother Moth's next turn. Hundreds Dusting (Recharge 5-6). Mother Moth flaps her wings, creating a cloud of blinding powder around her. Each creature within 20 feet of her must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 35 (10d6) poison damage and is blinded for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't blinded. A blinded creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. Mother Moth casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: animal messenger (moth only), detect magic , druidcraft , faerie fire , mending 3/day each: cure wounds (as a 5th-level spell), dispel magic , lesser restoration , insect plague 1/day each: hallucinatory terrain (as an action), wall of thorns Legendary Actions Mother Moth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Mother Moth regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Cantrip. Mother Moth casts a cantrip. Moonlit Walk. While in dim light, Mother Moth teleports to an unoccupied space she can see within 100 feet of her. The space she chooses must be in dim light. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Mother Moth uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

