# Fey Lord, River King

**description**: Fey are capricious, mischievous, and often dangerous beings, but despite their chaotic reputations, they do follow a certain set of rules. These rules—widely misunderstood by outsiders—are codified and enforced by a cadre of lofty fey nobility. Befitting any courtly structure, the fey bow to lords and ladies: eldritch creatures of immense power who rule the courts. Heads of State. The fey lords and ladies are beings of high station and prodigious personal power. Each rules over at least a great city if not an entire nation. No matter the scope of a fey noble’s rule, in his or eyes, a fey ruler’s word is law, and so shall the rest of the world see it! Outsiders may not understand the edicts and interdicts of a fey noble, but that’s no protection against the harsh penalties that await any who break them, knowingly or otherwise. Circles of Power. Each fey noble is supreme in his or her own bailiwick, and the rulers maintain a rigid hierarchy among themselves. The Queen of Night and Magic is undeniably the most powerful of all fey nobles, and she rules cyclically with her embittered husband, the Moonlit King. Together, the Summer and Winter monarchs rule over the entire shadow fey race. The River King is next in power, and he rules over the river elves of the Arbonesse forest. The Snow Queen rules among the ice, snow, and plundering reavers of the far north, as wells as commanding the obedience of the fraughashar and ice maidens. The Bear King, the weakest politically, rules a northerly city-state where werebears are common and mead flows like water. The odd man out is the Lord of the Hunt. Though he is associated with both the shadow fey and the light elves, no one is certain of his true identity or how he fits into the political structure of fey nobility. Because he seldom concerns himself with politics, few have felt any need to press the question. Other fey courts and rulers certainly exist, though their rulers are more esoteric than those described here. Vacant Thrones. When a lord or lady dies, the court does not remain leaderless for long. Ambitious beings among the fey always hunger for more power and covet the station of their superiors. After a traditional month or year of mourning, vicious power struggles winnow the weak and pave the way for the most cunning or the strongest to take the court’s vacant throne. Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. Cold iron weapons, however, are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder. River King This powerfully-muscled elf lord wears a cloak of foam-trimmed dark blue and a vest of woven green reeds and willow branches. His crown shines like the sun on a lake, and his flowing hair curls and moves even when there is no wind. An orb of blue light that ripples like water circles his hand. His Rippling Majesty, Ulorian the River King, also bears the titles Defender of the Pearl Tower and Master of the Arbonesse. A lean elf noble with whipcord muscles and flowing grace, the River King rules over the Rippling Court and ultimately all the river elves of the Arbonesse Forest. His court resides just beyond the river’s reflection, in a realm of fey glamour and silty water. A Fickle Friend. The River King is a stern ruler with a great love for his people and a quick temper for those who threaten his domain. As much a force of nature as he is a monarch, the River King is known to sometimes forget promises that were made in sincerity, so dealing with him can be perilous at the best of times. “The river may change its course when it wills” is the usual expression among his court when His Rippling Majesty has had a sudden change of heart. River King’s Lair The Court of the River King is a pair of small islands in the middle of a wide, swift river that flows from the mortal realm through a dimension of fey magic. The western keep houses servants, and the eastern is built above the Great Rippling Hall. The Great Rippling Hall is a bubble whose walls and ceiling are the river itself. A driftwood throne dominates the main hall. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the River King takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the River King can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The fey river swells and rushes over the land, or the walls of the Hall buckle and allow the torrent in. The River King chooses a 10-foot-wide path up to 60 feet long. Each creature in the path of the water must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. Creatures that fail the save are swept 20 feet down the path of the water and take 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage. The River King targets a creature he can see within 60 feet. That creature’s mouth and throat fill with river water. The creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a success, the creature manages to hold its breath, but on a failure, it begins to suffocate. A suffocating but conscious creature repeats the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success. Another creature within 5 feet can use an action to make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check. On a success, the suffocating creature coughs up the water and the effect ends. Otherwise the effect lasts until the River King uses this action again or dies. The River King targets a creature he can see within 120 feet. His commanding presence overwhelms the creature, who must make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the creature is charmed by the River King until initiative count 20 on the following round. Regional Effects The region containing the River King’s lair is warped by its magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The current of rivers and streams within 6 miles of the lair becomes strong and erratic. Creatures without a swim speed who start their turns in running water must succeed on a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check or be swept 60 feet downriver. Lakes, ponds, rivers, and streams within 6 miles of the lair teem with fish and other wildlife. Rain and thunderstorms are common within 6 miles of the lair, and often build to torrential downpours that create heavy obscurement and cause waterways to overflow their banks. If the River King dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair return to normal over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Amphibious: The River King can breathe air and water. Innate Spellcasting: The River King’s innate spellcasting ability score is Charisma (save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). The River King can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components. At will: create or destroy water, shocking grasp, water breathing 3/day each: freedom of movement, control water 1/day: chain lightning Legendary Resistance (3/day): If the River King fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons: The River King’s weapon attacks are magical and do an extra 10 (3d6) lightning damage (included below). Actions Multiattack: The River King makes three attacks with his longsword and/or flood blast, in any combination. Longsword (One-handed): Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) lightning damage. Longsword (Two-handed): Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 10 (1d10 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) lightning damage. Flood Blast: Ranged Spell Attack : +8 to hit, range 120 ft., One target. Hit : 18 (4d8) bludgeoning damage. A target creature must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and pushed up to 60 feet at the River King’s choosing. Grasping Whirlpool (Recharge 5-6): The River King magically creates a swirling vortex of water centered on a point he can see within 60 feet. The vortex fills a cylinder with a 10-foot radius and 15 feet high. Creatures in the area must make a successful DC 16 Strength saving throw or take 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and be restrained and unable to breathe. On a successful save, the creature is pushed to the edge of the area. A restrained creature can escape from the whirlpool by using an action to make a successful DC 16 Strength check. A creature that’s in the whirlpool at the end of its turn takes 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage in addition to any effects from being unable to breathe. Creatures with a swim speed have advantage on the saving throw and the Strength check to escape. The whirlpool lasts for 1 minute or until the River King uses this ability again. Reactions Blade Current: When a creature within the River King’s melee reach stands up from prone, the River King can make a longsword attack on that creature with advantage. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Longsword: The River King makes a longsword attack. Flow: The River King moves half his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Ripple (2 Actions): The River King magically ripples like sunlight on the surface of water. Until the start of his next turn, all attacks against him have disadvantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

