# Fey Lady, Coral Queen

**description**: This regal, blue-skinned fey wears an ornate crown, fashioned from coral, on her head and a curious smile on her face. She is dressed in light, silvery scale mail and holds a gleaming trident. Her Glittering Majesty Kirana, Coral Queen of the Seven Seas, Empress of the Undines, First Among Sea Elves, and Defender of the Dolphin Realms is the fey lady who rules over the warm seas of the fey lands. From her coral castle, the Anemone Palace, she presides over a domain of reefs and atolls inhabited by aquatic elves, merfolk, undines (see Creature Codex ), and awakened sea creatures. Avid Collector. Queen Kirana is a collector of interesting objects and has filled several caverns beneath the Anemone Palace with treasures and bizarre trinkets taken from shipwrecked vessels. The Coral Queen spends hours enjoying her vast collection and regularly sends her agents abroad in search of new items. Ships sailing the warm seas of the Material Plane sometimes inadvertently cross over to her realm at places where the border between worlds is thin. Often these ships run into the treacherous reefs surrounding the Anemone Palace and sink beneath the waves, never to be seen again. Their crews are rescued by the queen's undines, who curse the sailors with enchanted kisses and bring them before the Coral Queen. Captured sailors and other visitors who offer the queen something she has never seen before as a gift are allowed to leave her realm and return to the Material Plane. Those without gifts or who offer her something she already has in her collection become trapped in her realm, unless they are prepared to enter into a fey bargain. Isolated Fey. The Coral Queen was once romantically involved with the River King (see Tome of Beasts ) but became irked by his frequent dalliances with other fey. The two fey leaders are no longer on speaking terms, and the Coral Queen has since kept a cool distance physically and politically from most of the fey courts. Warrior Queen. Queen Kirana is a graceful and accomplished fighter and spellcaster. She enjoys riding her seahorses into battle against the sahuagin warbands that sometimes plague her domain. Coral Queen's Lair The Coral Queen rules from the Anemone Palace, a coral castle and underwater cavern complex filled with brightly colored coral formations carved into the side of a barrier reef. It is home to her court of aquatic elves, undines, and awakened sea creatures. When encountered in her lair, the Coral Queen has a challenge rating of 22 (41,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Coral Queen takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the Coral Queen can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Churning Water. A cloud of sand swirls in a 30-foot radius sphere centered on a point in the water the Coral Queen can see within 120 feet of her. The cloud spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The cloud lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. Conjured Coral. A wall of razor-sharp coral springs into existence on a solid surface the Coral Queen can see within 120 feet of her. The wall is 6 inches thick and is composed of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot sections. Each section must be contiguous with at least one other section. When the wall appears, each creature in its area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. A creature that fails the save takes 18 (4d8) piercing damage and is pushed 5 feet out of the wall's space, appearing on whichever side of the wall it wants. Furthermore, a creature in the wall's space must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw once each round it's in contact with the wall, taking 18 (4d8) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Each 10-foot section of wall has AC 10, 30 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, resistance to piercing damage, and immunity to psychic damage. The wall sinks back into the ground when the Coral Queen uses this lair action again or when the Coral Queen dies. Summon Aid. The Coral Queen summons 2d4 giant octopuses, two killer whales, or one dire lionfish (see) to defend her lair. The Beasts appear in unoccupied spaces the Coral Queen can see within 60 feet of her. The Beasts act immediately and on initiative count 20 on subsequent rounds. They remain for 1 minute, until the Coral Queen dies, or until the Coral Queen dismisses them as a bonus action. The Coral Queen can have any number of such Beasts under her control, provided the combined total CR of the Beasts is no higher than 6. Regional Effects The region surrounding the Coral Queen's court is warped by her magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Extended Stay. Creatures who willingly enter the Coral Queen's Anemone Palace cannot leave her domain without her permission. Rough Waters. The sea within 10 miles of her lair is subject to treacherous currents. Ability checks to safely navigate or control a vessel moving through these waters are made with disadvantage. Sea Friend. The Coral Queen can communicate telepathically with and share the senses of any dolphins or sea turtles within 10 miles of her lair. If the Coral Queen dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. Amphibious. The Coral Queen can breathe air and water. Envenomed Weapons. The Coral Queen's weapon attacks are magical. When she hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4d8 poison damage (included in the attack). Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the Coral Queen fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The Coral Queen has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The Coral Queen makes three Trident or Water Blast attacks. She can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting. If the Coral Queen hits one creature with two Queen's Trident attacks, the target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Queen's Trident. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage, or 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage when used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 18 (4d8) poison damage. Water Blast. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 30 feet away from the Coral Queen and knocked prone. Scalding Burst (Recharge 5-6). The Coral Queen superheats the water or air centered on a point she can see within 120 feet of her. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 70 (20d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Being underwater doesn't grant creatures resistance to this damage. Spellcasting. The Coral Queen casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 22): At will: freedom of movement , water breathing , water walk 3/day each: control water, dispel magic 1/day each: awaken, storm of vengeance Bonus Actions Watery Step. The Coral Queen disappears in a burst of bubbles and reappears in an unoccupied space she can see within 30 feet. A splash of bubbles and water appears at the origin and destination when she uses this bonus action. Legendary Actions The Coral Queen can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The Coral Queen regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Water Blast. The Coral Queen makes one Water Blast attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The Coral Queen uses Spellcasting. Seal the Gills (Costs 2 Actions). The Coral Queen steals the breath from a water breathing creature she can see within 60 feet of her. The creature must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature begins to suffocate. A suffocating but conscious creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a success, the creature holds its breath but can't speak until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

