# Fey Lady, Countess of Garlands

**description**: A woman with regal bearing glides through the ballroom in a sublime evening gown, a living garland wrapped around her shoulders like a stole. Lizbet Anthur, the Countess of Garlands, is a woman of piercing insight, extravagant taste, and noble authority. She is the Summer Lily, Madame d'Oléandre, and Lady Thornhand, and she holds dominion over gardens, holiday celebrations, and formal gatherings. Her courtly peers rely upon her to organize and outfit gatherings with her unique style and clever use of flower symbolism. Her adversaries know her for her mercurial temper, unforgiving sense of etiquette, and command of plant life. Socialite and Courtier. The Countess of Garlands is well respected among the fey for her skills in courtly intrigue. Her signature invitation, a bouquet that conveys all it needs with arranged symbolism, delights most who receive one. Most fey nobles appreciate her tact in navigating the court's myriad complexities, though not all regard her so well. The countess and Mother Moth (see) have no love for each other as Mother Moth considers the countess chiefly responsible for her ousting. The Rainforest King (see) is another who vexes the countess. She dutifully invites the King to court events, as per custom, but he has yet to respond to an invitation. The Countess of Garlands's Lair The Countess of Garlands's lair is the Hollyhock Château, a masterfully decorated mansion of open-air rooms, sprawling ivy trellises, and hedge maze gardens. When encountered in her lair, the Countess of Garlands has a challenge rating of 15 (13,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Countess of Garlands takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the countess can't use the same effect two rounds in a row. Grasping Garlands. The Countess of Garlands chooses up to two creatures she can see that are within 15 feet of a wall of her lair. Each target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 18) by the vines and garlands that adorn the walls. Summon Plants. The Countess of Garlands magically calls 12 awakened shrubs or a Plant with a challenge rating 5 or lower to aid her. A called creature acts as an ally of the countess and obeys her mental commands. The creatures remain for 1 hour or until the countess uses this lair action again. Thorn Burst. A rosebush grows from a point on the ground the Countess of Garlands can see within 120 feet of her and explodes in a flurry of thorns. Each creature within 10 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) piercing damage. Regional Effects The region containing the Countess of Garlands's lair is warped by her magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Dreams of Revelry. Humanoids and Fey who finish a long rest within 5 miles of the lair wake up to find themselves eager to celebrate anything and everything, no matter how small and insignificant. The revelry persists as long as an affected creature remains in the area or until it attends one of the Countess of Garlands's famous parties. Emotional Blooms. Within 1 mile of the Countess of Garlands's lair, flowers grow with supernatural speed in places where Humanoids or Fey have felt strong feelings or have had meaningful encounters. The symbolism of these flowers always corresponds to the emotion or situation that caused the flowers to grow. Hardy Plants. All plants grow especially lush and resilient within 10 miles of the lair. Plant creatures have resistance to poison damage and advantage on saving throws against poison and disease. If the Countess of Garlands dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the Countess of Garlands fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The Countess of Garlands has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Speak with Plants. The Countess of Garlands can communicate with plants as if they shared a language. Thorn-Wrapped Weapons. The Countess of Garlands's weapon attacks are magical. When she hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d6 piercing damage (included in the attack). Woodland Stride. Difficult terrain composed of magical or nonmagical plants doesn't cost the Countess of Garlands extra movement. In addition, she can pass through magical or nonmagical plants without being slowed by them and without taking damage from them if they have thorns, spines, or a similar hazard. Actions Multiattack. The Countess of Garlands uses Blooms of Doom. She then makes two Pruning Blade or Bursting Bouquet attacks. She can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting. Pruning Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) piercing damage. Bursting Bouquet. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 120 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) force damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Blooms of Doom. The Countess of Garlands causes poisonous flowering vines to sprout in the space of a creature she can see within 30 feet of her. The creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) piercing damage and become restrained by the vines for 1 minute. While restrained, a creature takes 14 (4d6) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the restrained condition on itself on a success. Petty Petals (Recharge 5-6). The Countess of Garlands releases a shower of perfumed petals with an intoxicating scent. Each creature within 60 feet of the Countess of Garlands and that can smell the scent must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed until the end of its next turn. On its turn, a charmed target must move to within 5 feet of the nearest creature that isn't the countess and make one melee attack against that creature if the target ends its movement within reach of the creature. If no other creature is near enough to move to and attack, the target moves as close as it can then screams invectives at the nearest creature that isn't the countess until the end of its turn. Creatures immune to the poisoned condition are immune to this charm. Spellcasting . The Countess of Garlands casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: entangle, prestidigitation 3/day each: enthrall, plant growth, spike growth 1/day each: regenerate, mass suggestion, wall of thorns Reactions Garland Parry. The Countess of Garlands adds 4 to her AC against one ranged attack that would hit her as her garland coils protectively around her. To do so, she must see the attacker and not be incapacitated. Legendary Actions The Countess of Garlands can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The countess regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Into the Thicket. The countess magically teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to any unoccupied space she can see within an area of difficult terrain. Life of the Party. The countess makes one Bursting Bouquet attack. Being within 5 feet of a hostile creature doesn't cause this attack to be made with disadvantage. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The countess uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

