# Fey Lady, Snow Queen

**description**: Fey are capricious, mischievous, and often dangerous beings, but despite their chaotic reputations, they do follow a certain set of rules. These rules—widely misunderstood by outsiders—are codified and enforced by a cadre of lofty fey nobility. Befitting any courtly structure, the fey bow to lords and ladies: eldritch creatures of immense power who rule the courts. Heads of State. The fey lords and ladies are beings of high station and prodigious personal power. Each rules over at least a great city if not an entire nation. No matter the scope of a fey noble’s rule, in his or eyes, a fey ruler’s word is law, and so shall the rest of the world see it! Outsiders may not understand the edicts and interdicts of a fey noble, but that’s no protection against the harsh penalties that await any who break them, knowingly or otherwise. Circles of Power. Each fey noble is supreme in his or her own bailiwick, and the rulers maintain a rigid hierarchy among themselves. The Queen of Night and Magic is undeniably the most powerful of all fey nobles, and she rules cyclically with her embittered husband, the Moonlit King. Together, the Summer and Winter monarchs rule over the entire shadow fey race. The River King is next in power, and he rules over the river elves of the Arbonesse forest. The Snow Queen rules among the ice, snow, and plundering reavers of the far north, as wells as commanding the obedience of the fraughashar and ice maidens. The Bear King, the weakest politically, rules a northerly city-state where werebears are common and mead flows like water. The odd man out is the Lord of the Hunt. Though he is associated with both the shadow fey and the light elves, no one is certain of his true identity or how he fits into the political structure of fey nobility. Because he seldom concerns himself with politics, few have felt any need to press the question. Other fey courts and rulers certainly exist, though their rulers are more esoteric than those described here. Vacant Thrones. When a lord or lady dies, the court does not remain leaderless for long. Ambitious beings among the fey always hunger for more power and covet the station of their superiors. After a traditional month or year of mourning, vicious power struggles winnow the weak and pave the way for the most cunning or the strongest to take the court’s vacant throne. Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. Cold iron weapons, however, are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder. Snow Queen This severe elf has pale, almost white skin and tightly braided blond hair. Her gown is exquisite, fashioned of luminous blue fabric that catches light and shines from within. Lacy ice crystals accent the gown, and a snow-white mantle cascades from her shoulders. Icicles radiate in a crownlike halo behind her head, drifting gracefully through the air. Her Crystalline Majesty, Morrinn of Grokeheim, is the cold-hearted Snow Queen, Daughter of Boreas. The Snow Queen rules a northern kingdom in the Frozen Reach. Perpetually shrouded in snow and ice, her domain is inhospitable to outsiders. She rules from Grokeheim, a castle of delicate spires carved entirely out of ice. The dwelling catches and reflects even the faintest glimmer of light, shining like a beacon and enticing travelers to risk the dangerous winter realm. Queen of Giants. The Snow Queen is proud and cruel to any who cross her. Her daughters, the ice maidens, roam her kingdom with ease. Travelers who can’t give a good reason to be moving through the Queen’s territory meet a quick end in their chilly embrace. Morinn commands the loyalty of winter-born tribes of fraughashar, ogres, frost giants, thursir giants, and trollkin. She is said to have mocked both Thor and Loki, and to often lead their priests astray into winter storms. Snow Queen’s Lair The ice castle of Grokeheim is the Snow Queen’s lair. Sunlight and moonlight flash through the delicate spires and translucent walls, setting the palace agleam even in the deepest night. The castle reflects its mistress: beautiful, cold, and unforgivingly deadly. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Snow Queen takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the Snow Queen can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: A wall of dense snow springs into existence within 120 feet of the Snow Queen. The wall is up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick, and it blocks line of sight. When the wall appears, each creature in the wall’s area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. A creature that fails the saving throw takes 18 (4d8) cold damage and is pushed 5 feet out of the wall’s space, on whichever side of the wall it chooses. A creature that touches the wall at any time takes the samedamage. Each 10-foot section of the wall has AC 5, 15 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage, resistance to bludgeoning and piercing damage, and immunity to cold, poison, and psychic damage. The wall lasts until the Snow Queen uses this action again, or she dies. Icy wind and stinging snow swirls around the Snow Queen. All creatures that aren’t immune to cold damage have disadvantage when making saving throws against cold damage or cold-based effects while within 60 feet of the Snow Queen. This effect lasts until initiative count 20 on the following round. The snow and ice of the lair shimmer and gleam, catching the light and flashing it into the eyes of the Snow Queen’s foes. Attack rolls against the Snow Queen and her allies within the lair have disadvantage until initiative count 20 on the following round. Regional Effects The region containing the Snow Queen’s lair is warped by the fey lady’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Within 10 miles of the lair, snow and ice resist melting. Snow and ice can be melted only with prolonged contact with fire. The sky is overcast most of the time within 10 miles of the lair, and snowfall is common. The area is difficult terrain for Tiny, Small, and Medium creatures because of deep snow. Light snowfall or swirling powder blown by the wind lightly obscures the area within 5 miles of the lair. If the Snow Queen dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair return to normal over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Innate Spellcasting: The Snow Queen’s innate spellcasting ability score is Charisma (save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). The Snow Queen can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components. At will: fog cloud, magic missile, ray of frost 3/day each: chill metal (as heat metal, but does cold damage), freezing sphere 1/day: cone of cold Legendary Resistance (3/day): If the Snow Queen fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons: The Snow Queen’s weapon attacks are magical and do an extra 7 (2d6) cold damage (included below). Winter Step: The Snow Queen ignores difficult terrain caused by ice and snow. She can walk on vertical and horizontal surfaces that are covered by ice or snow. Actions Multiattack: The Snow Queen makes two attacks in any combination of her claws and her ice crown. Claws: Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage. Ice Crown: Ranged Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, range 80/320 ft., One target. Hit : 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage. The target’s speed is reduced by 10 feet until the end of its next turn. Cold Snap (Recharge 5-6): The Snow Queen causes the temperature around her to drop dramatically. Every creature within 30 feet of the Snow Queen must make a successful DC 17 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 level of exhaustion. Immunity to cold grants immunity to Cold Snap. Reactions Frozen Shards: When the Snow Queen is hit by a melee attack, she can strike her attacker with shards from her icy crown. The attacker takes 11 (2d10) piercing damage and 11 (2d10) cold damage, or no damage with a successful DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Ice Crown: The Snow Queen makes an ice crown attack. Snowblind: One target that the Snow Queen can see within 100 feet must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be blinded by swirling snow until the end of its next turn. Snowfall Mantle (2 Actions): The Snow Queen throws her mantle of snow at a point she can see within 60 feet. An area within 30 feet of that point instantly becomes covered in deep snow. Creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be restrained. The area becomes difficult terrain, costing 2 feet of movement for every 1 foot moved. The difficult terrain lasts until the end of the Snow Queen’s next turn, at which time her mantle returns to her shoulders.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral evil
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

