# Fey Lord, Bear King

**description**: Fey are capricious, mischievous, and often dangerous beings, but despite their chaotic reputations, they do follow a certain set of rules. These rules—widely misunderstood by outsiders—are codified and enforced by a cadre of lofty fey nobility. Befitting any courtly structure, the fey bow to lords and ladies: eldritch creatures of immense power who rule the courts. Heads of State. The fey lords and ladies are beings of high station and prodigious personal power. Each rules over at least a great city if not an entire nation. No matter the scope of a fey noble’s rule, in his or eyes, a fey ruler’s word is law, and so shall the rest of the world see it! Outsiders may not understand the edicts and interdicts of a fey noble, but that’s no protection against the harsh penalties that await any who break them, knowingly or otherwise. Circles of Power. Each fey noble is supreme in his or her own bailiwick, and the rulers maintain a rigid hierarchy among themselves. The Queen of Night and Magic is undeniably the most powerful of all fey nobles, and she rules cyclically with her embittered husband, the Moonlit King. Together, the Summer and Winter monarchs rule over the entire shadow fey race. The River King is next in power, and he rules over the river elves of the Arbonesse forest. The Snow Queen rules among the ice, snow, and plundering reavers of the far north, as wells as commanding the obedience of the fraughashar and ice maidens. The Bear King, the weakest politically, rules a northerly city-state where werebears are common and mead flows like water. The odd man out is the Lord of the Hunt. Though he is associated with both the shadow fey and the light elves, no one is certain of his true identity or how he fits into the political structure of fey nobility. Because he seldom concerns himself with politics, few have felt any need to press the question. Other fey courts and rulers certainly exist, though their rulers are more esoteric than those described here. Vacant Thrones. When a lord or lady dies, the court does not remain leaderless for long. Ambitious beings among the fey always hunger for more power and covet the station of their superiors. After a traditional month or year of mourning, vicious power struggles winnow the weak and pave the way for the most cunning or the strongest to take the court’s vacant throne. Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. Cold iron weapons, however, are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder. Bear King Dressed in hunting leathers with a thick bearskin cloak around his shoulders, the bearded king sits upon a throne carved from a whole tree trunk. A crown of holly leaves wreathes his head, and a blackened maul rests near his hand. An ornate clay pot filled with honey hangs at his hip at all times. Mesikammen the Bear King, called “Old Honey Paws,” rules the northern kingdom of Bjeornheim. The Kingdom of the Bear is home to a great population of its namesake. The forests are thick with bears, and werebears are common among its people. Abuzz with Bees. The country’s chief product and export, thanks to the Bear King’s insatiable appetite for sweets, is honey. The Bear King’s hive-keepers harvest rich, blossom-sweet honey from the hives of giant bees they tend. The land’s brewers use the honey to create the finest mead, and the most potent brews are infused with fey glamour. The Bear King and his court of bear jarls, witches, and oracles spend most of their time hunting in the hills, feasting, brawling, and drinking mead. Old Honey Paws maintains his rulership over this court by besting all rivals in a yearly series of challenges. The challenges are open to anyone, but the Bear King has defeated all comers since he rose to the throne. Bear King’s Lair The Bear King lairs in the capital of Bjeornheim, the Gloaming Crag. This fortress thrusts up from the foothills of a mountain range like a petrified wave. The Crag is riddled with caves and tunnels, and there dwells the court of the Bear King. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Bear King takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the Bear King can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The Bear King magically conjures up a swarm of eight giant bees (use giant wasp statistics) to defend his lair. The bees act immediately, and on initiative count 20 in subsequent rounds. The bees remain until they’re killed or until the Bear King dismisses them as an action. The Bear King can use this action again, but no more than eight giant bees can be present at a time. The Bear King targets a creature within the lair that he can see. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be magically transformed into a brown bear as if by a polymorphspell. At the beginning of its turn, a transformed creature repeats the saving throw. If it fails, the creature must use its action to attack one of the Bear King’s foes. If it succeeds, the effect ends and the creature returns to its normal form. The effect lasts until the creature succeeds on the saving throw or until the Bear King uses this lair action again. The Bear King causes the ground in a 20-foot radius to tremble and shake. Any creatures in the affected area must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or suffer 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage and fall prone. The ground continues to tremble until initiative count 20 on the following round, during which time the area is difficult terrain. Regional Effects The region surrounding Gloaming Crag is warped by the Bear King’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Within 10 miles of the Bear King’s lair, creatures have disadvantage on saving throws made to avoid contracting lycanthropy from a werebear. Bees within 10 miles of the Bear King’s lair are easily agitated and quick to attack. Insect swarms (bees or hornets) are common in the area, but they tend to ignore locals. Emotions within 5 miles of the Bear King’s lair run high. Arguments quickly descend into physical scuffles and enjoyable get-togethers are likely to become raucous carousing or even brawls. Traits Alternate form: As a bonus action, the Bear King can assume the form of a shaggy grizzly bear, or a hybrid of his humanoid and bear forms. In alternate form the Bear King’s size increases to Large, and he can make bite and claw attacks. He remains in this form until he returns to human form as a bonus action or he falls unconscious or dies. Keen Smell: The Bear King has advantage on Perception (Wisdom) checks that rely on smell. Legendary Resistance (3/day): If the Bear King fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration (Alternate Form only): The Bear King regains 10 hit points at the start of his turn if he has at least 1 hit point. Actions Multiattack: The bear king makes two ranged attacks or two melee attacks. In hybrid or grizzly bear form he can also make one additional bite attack. Bite (Grizzly or Hybrid Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage. A target creature other than a construct or undead must make a successful DC 17 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of its turns or lose 10 [3d6] hit points from blood loss. Each time the Bear King hits the wounded creature with this attack, the hit point loss increases by 10 [3d6]. A creature can take an action to staunch the bleeding on itself or an adjacent ally with a successful DC 12 Wisdom [Medicine] check. The bleeding also stops if the creature receives any magical healing. Claws (Grizzly or Hybrid Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Maul (Human or Hybrid Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. A creature hit by two maul attacks in the same turn must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or fall prone. Javelin (Human Form Only): Ranged Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, range 30/60 ft., One target. Hit : 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Melee Attack: The Bear King makes a claw or maul attack. Honey Toss: The Bear King reaches into the jar he carries at his side and hurls a glob of honey at a target within 30 feet as a ranged weapon attack (+9 to hit). If the attack hits, the creature is restrained (escape DC 17). Frightful Roar (2 actions): The Bear King lets out a blood-curdling roar. All creatures within 90 feet who can hear the Bear King must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A creature that makes its save, or who the effect ends for, is immune to the Frightful Roar for 24 hours. The bear king’s allies are unaffected.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful neutral
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

