# Fey Lady, Queen of the Night and Magic

**description**: Fey are capricious, mischievous, and often dangerous beings, but despite their chaotic reputations, they do follow a certain set of rules. These rules—widely misunderstood by outsiders—are codified and enforced by a cadre of lofty fey nobility. Befitting any courtly structure, the fey bow to lords and ladies: eldritch creatures of immense power who rule the courts. Heads of State. The fey lords and ladies are beings of high station and prodigious personal power. Each rules over at least a great city if not an entire nation. No matter the scope of a fey noble’s rule, in his or eyes, a fey ruler’s word is law, and so shall the rest of the world see it! Outsiders may not understand the edicts and interdicts of a fey noble, but that’s no protection against the harsh penalties that await any who break them, knowingly or otherwise. Circles of Power. Each fey noble is supreme in his or her own bailiwick, and the rulers maintain a rigid hierarchy among themselves. The Queen of Night and Magic is undeniably the most powerful of all fey nobles, and she rules cyclically with her embittered husband, the Moonlit King. Together, the Summer and Winter monarchs rule over the entire shadow fey race. The River King is next in power, and he rules over the river elves of the Arbonesse forest. The Snow Queen rules among the ice, snow, and plundering reavers of the far north, as wells as commanding the obedience of the fraughashar and ice maidens. The Bear King, the weakest politically, rules a northerly city-state where werebears are common and mead flows like water. The odd man out is the Lord of the Hunt. Though he is associated with both the shadow fey and the light elves, no one is certain of his true identity or how he fits into the political structure of fey nobility. Because he seldom concerns himself with politics, few have felt any need to press the question. Other fey courts and rulers certainly exist, though their rulers are more esoteric than those described here. Vacant Thrones. When a lord or lady dies, the court does not remain leaderless for long. Ambitious beings among the fey always hunger for more power and covet the station of their superiors. After a traditional month or year of mourning, vicious power struggles winnow the weak and pave the way for the most cunning or the strongest to take the court’s vacant throne. Queen of Night and Magic A fey lady of stunning beauty with hair the color of midnight stands before a shining field of stars. A gown seemingly woven from the night sky drapes her flawless ivory skin. Bright lights glitter like diamonds in her crown and raiment, and some drift about her body and dance near her hand. Her Celestial and Royal Majesty, Sarastra Aestruum, Queen of Night and Magic, is also Duchess of the Heavens, Countess of Thorn, Mistress of Air and Darkness, Lady of the Summer Palace, and Bride of Shadows. The Queen rules the Court of the shadow fey with grace and majesty—most of the time. Queen Sarastra is the head of the Summer court, which rules the shadow fey in its season. On the rare occasion when the courtly season turns, Sarastra steps aside in favor of her husband and rival, the Moonlit King. Shadow Sorceress. The Queen of Night and Magic does not bear her moniker lightly. She is a devastatingly potent sorceress, augmented with command over the stuff of shadows. Though her nature is undeniably dark, Queen Sarastra is hardly unreasonable. She is quick to recognize the value in any supplicant, mortal or fey, who manages to catch her royal eye. She is never one to ignore an opportunity to further her agenda or to gain further power over the Moonlit King. Queen of Night and Magic's Lair Queen Sarastra makes her home in the Shadow Realm (plane of shadows), in the ancient halls of the Courts of the Shadow Fey. A great castle of delicate spires and graceful bridges, the Courts of the Shadow Fey contain the Royal Halls, the Queen’s abode proper, and the Winter Palace, the home of her husband (when he’s present). When the Summer Court holds sway and the Queen of Night and Magic rules, her lair is all of the Courts of the Shadow Fey, with the exception of the Winter Palace. When the Winter Court rules, the Queen’s lair is confined to the Royal Halls. Regional Effects The region containing the Queen of Night and Magic’s lair is warped by her magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Shadows come to life within 6 miles of the Queen’s lair. Most of the time these living shadows are unnerving and nothing more, but when a creature acts against the interests of the Queen, the shadows can interfere and cause any relevant die roll to be made with disadvantage. Magic saturates the area within 6 miles of the lair, causing minor random effects similar to a prestidigitation cantrip. The Queen of Night and Magic can cast her senses to any area containing darkness, dim light, or shadows within 6 miles of her lair, similar to a clairvoyance spell. While the Summer Court rules, the regional effects of the Queen’s lair extend into the Winter Palace, but they are diminished and weaker than normal. During the Winter Court’s reign, the Winter Palace is not subject to the regional effects. If the Queen of Night and Magic dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair gradually return to normal over the course of 2d10 days. Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. Cold iron weapons, however, are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day): If the Queen of Night and Magic fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance: The Queen of Night and Magic has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Shadowborn: When in lighting other than bright light, the Queen of Night and Magic has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide, and she can hide even while being observed. Spellcasting: The Queen of Night and Magic is an 18th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). The Queen knows the following sorcerer spells: Cantrips (at will): blade ward, chill touch, dancing lights, mage hand, prestidigitation, ray of frost 1st level (4 slots): mage armor, magic missile, shield 2nd level (3 slots): darkness, mirror image 3rd level (3 slots): blink, fear 4th level (3 slots): confusion, greater invisibility 5th level (3 slots): cone of cold, teleportation circle 6th level (1 slot): circle of death 7th level (1 slot): plane shift, prismatic spray 8th level (1 slot): dominate monster 9th level (1 slot): meteor swarm Actions Multiattack: The Queen of Night and Magic makes three attacks with her rapier or with star strike. Rapier: Melee Weapon Attack : +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) cold damage. Shadow Rift (Recharge 5-6): The Queen of Night and Magic creates a shadowy rift in a 20-foot sphere centered on a point she can see within 150 feet. Any creature within the rift takes 72 (16d8) cold damage, or half damage with a successful DC 23 Constitution saving throw. Creatures that fail the saving throw are also restrained by icy wisps of shadow. A restrained creature repeats the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the restrained condition on a success. Star Strike: Ranged Spell Attack : +15 to hit, range 120 ft., One target. Hit : 9 (2d8) fire damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. Teleport: The Queen of Night and Magic teleports to an unoccupied space up to 60 feet away. Unravel: The Queen of Night and Magic targets a creature, object, or magical effect that she can see. For every spell affecting the target, the Queen makes a Charisma check; the DC equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, the spell is dispelled. Reactions Sudden Fraying: When the Queen of Night and Magic is targeted by a spell or included in a spell’s area, she can use her Unravel ability on it. The Queen does not need to see a spell to target it with this reaction, but she must be able to see at least some portion of an area or object affected by the spell. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Cantrip: The Queen of Night and Magic casts a cantrip. Swirling Stars: The Queen of Night and Magic makes one star strike attack. Having a foe within 5 feet of the Queen doesn’t cause this attack to be made with disadvantage. Teleport: The Queen of Night and Magic uses her Teleport ability. Spell (2 actions): The Queen of Night and Magic casts a spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral evil
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

