# Fey Lord, Rainforest King

**description**: This umber-skinned fey lord holds audience on a living throne of branches and vines. His clothing and adornments are made from leaves, reeds, and animal tusks and bones. King Kashama, Lord Protector of the Rainforests, Oba of the Aziza, and Ancient Father of the Brownies is the fey lord of the fey lands' jungles. The Rainforest King rules over a domain of hot, steamy jungles inhabited by aziza (see), brownies (see), hags, rainforest ogres (see), elves, trollkin and other fey who make their homes beneath the forest canopy. Forest Protector. The Rainforest King has an affinity for all the creatures of the rainforest, from insects to apes, and for the abundant plant life that blankets his realm. Anyone damaging or threatening the forest incurs his wrath. He cares deeply for the jungles of the Material Plane coterminous with the fey lands. Stepping inside a giant kapok tree or entering a cave behind a waterfall might transport a wanderer to the Rainforest King's realm. He works to preserve both fey and mundane jungles from ax and fire, sending out his servants or calling upon druidic allies to safeguard its inhabitants. Sometimes, King Kashama himself may appear, reducing whole settlements to rubble and returning the land to fecund jungle. Reclusive Fey. The Rainforest King attends gatherings of the fey lords and ladies only when he must. He respects the Lord of the Hunt (see Tome of Beasts ) and finds Reynard the Fox Lord (see Creature Codex ) mildly amusing, but he is largely indifferent to the other fey leaders. Kashama considers the Countess of Garlands (see) very frivolous despite sharing an affinity for plants with her, ignoring her numerous party invitations, much to her chagrin. Rainforest King's Lair King Kashama's lair is a grove of 300-foot-tall mahogany trees, deep in the heart of the rainforest. His court is attended by tiny aziza and brownies, and fearsome rainforest ogres. His primary nobles are his vizier, an awakened male orangutan named Arhaa, and his royal steward, an awakened female chimpanzee named Mulunda. When encountered in his lair, the Rainforest King has a challenge rating of 22 (41,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Rainforest King takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the Rainforest King can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Exploding Fruit. Large, spherical fruits fall from trees in the lair, striking up to three creatures underneath that the Rainforest King can see within 120 feet of him. The Rainforest King makes one ranged attack roll (+11 to hit) against each target. On a hit, the target takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage and the fruit explodes. The target and each creature within 5 feet of it must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Soporific Pollen. Flowers suddenly bloom from a point on the ground the Rainforest King can see within 120 feet of him, releasing a cloud of soporific pollen. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or fall unconscious for 10 minutes. This effect ends for a creature if the creature takes damage or someone uses an action to wake it. Verdant Burst. Plants erupt in a 20-foot radius centered on a point on the ground the Rainforest King can see within 120 feet of him. That area becomes difficult terrain, and each creature that enters the area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 18 (4d8) poison damage and become restrained by vines. A creature can be freed if it or another creature takes an action to make a DC 20 Strength check and succeeds. The vines last until the Rainforest King uses this lair action again or he dies. Regional Effects The region surrounding the Rainforest King's lair is warped by his magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Forest Awareness. Colorful birds, frogs, and flowering plants are prolific within 1 mile of the lair. The Rainforest King can choose to see or hear through the senses of any bird or frog or see or hear through the flowers of any flowering plant in this area. Plentiful Sustenance. Within 5 miles of the Rainforest King's lair, game animals and edible plants are plentiful, and frequent rainfall makes fresh water easy to find. Any checks to hunt or forage for food and water in the area are made with advantage. Rainy Season. Heavy rains are frequent within 20 miles of the lair. A downpour occurs at least twice each day and lasts up to three hours. The rains are so heavy that creatures moving overland travel at half normal speed. If the Rainforest King dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the Rainforest King fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The Rainforest King has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The Rainforest King's weapon attacks are magical. Speak with Beasts and Plants. The Rainforest King can communicate with Beasts and plants as if they shared a language. Tree Stride. The Rainforest King can use 5 feet of his movement to step magically into one living tree within his reach and emerge from a second living tree within 500 feet of the first tree, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second tree. Both trees must be Large or bigger. Woodland Stride. Difficult terrain composed of magical or nonmagical plants doesn't cost the Rainforest King extra movement. In addition, he can pass through magical or nonmagical plants without being slowed by them and without taking damage from them if they have thorns, spines, or a similar hazard. Actions Multiattack. The Rainforest King uses Blooms of Doom. He then makes three King's Spear attacks. He can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting. King's Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage, or 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage when used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 27 (6d8) poison damage. If the Rainforest King makes a ranged King's Spear attack, the weapon flies back to his hand immediately after the attack. Blooms of Doom. The Rainforest King causes poisonous flowering vines to sprout in the space of a creature he can see within 30 feet of him. The creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) piercing damage and become restrained by the vines for 1 minute. While restrained, a creature takes 14 (4d6) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the restrained condition on itself on a success. Animate Trees (1/Day). The Rainforest King magically animates two trees he can see within 60 feet of him. These trees use the statistics of a treant, except they have Intelligence and Charisma scores of 1, they can't speak, and they have only the Slam action option. They act as allies of the Rainforest King and obey his spoken commands. The trees remain animate for 8 hours, until the Rainforest King dies, or until he takes a bonus action to turn them back into inanimate trees. Spellcasting. The Rainforest King casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21): At will: druidcraft , entangle 3/day each: dominate beast , plant growth 1/day each: wall of thorns Reactions Leaf Shield. When the Rainforest King or a friendly creature he can see is hit by an attack, he can creature a magical barrier of leaves to disrupt the attack. The target halves the damage from the attack. Legendary Actions The Rainforest King can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The Rainforest King regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Blooms of Doom. The Rainforest King uses Blooms of Doom. Tree Stride. The Rainforest King moves up to his speed, stepping through at least one tree with his Tree Stride trait. This movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The Rainforest King uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

