# Fey Lady, Queen of Witches

**description**: Fey are capricious, mischievous, and often dangerous beings, but despite their chaotic reputations, they do follow a certain set of rules. These rules—widely misunderstood by outsiders—are codified and enforced by a cadre of lofty fey nobility. Befitting any courtly structure, the fey bow to lords and ladies: eldritch creatures of immense power who rule the courts. Heads of State. The fey lords and ladies are beings of high station and prodigious personal power. Each rules over at least a great city if not an entire nation. No matter the scope of a fey noble’s rule, in his or eyes, a fey ruler’s word is law, and so shall the rest of the world see it! Outsiders may not understand the edicts and interdicts of a fey noble, but that’s no protection against the harsh penalties that await any who break them, knowingly or otherwise. Circles of Power. Each fey noble is supreme in his or her own bailiwick, and the rulers maintain a rigid hierarchy among themselves. The Queen of Night and Magic is undeniably the most powerful of all fey nobles, and she rules cyclically with her embittered husband, the Moonlit King. Together, the Summer and Winter monarchs rule over the entire shadow fey race. The River King is next in power, and he rules over the river elves of the Arbonesse forest. The Snow Queen rules among the ice, snow, and plundering reavers of the far north, as wells as commanding the obedience of the fraughashar and ice maidens. The Bear King, the weakest politically, rules a northerly city-state where werebears are common and mead flows like water. The odd man out is the Lord of the Hunt. Though he is associated with both the shadow fey and the light elves, no one is certain of his true identity or how he fits into the political structure of fey nobility. Because he seldom concerns himself with politics, few have felt any need to press the question. Other fey courts and rulers certainly exist, though their rulers are more esoteric than those described here. Vacant Thrones. When a lord or lady dies, the court does not remain leaderless for long. Ambitious beings among the fey always hunger for more power and covet the station of their superiors. After a traditional month or year of mourning, vicious power struggles winnow the weak and pave the way for the most cunning or the strongest to take the court’s vacant throne. Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. Cold iron weapons, however, are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder. Queen of Witches This statuesque woman towers over any tall man, and most ogres. Her hair falls in a cascade of curls and looks as if it is spun from copper. Her eyes are the color of moss beds, with no iris or pupil. A billowy robe of forest green enshrouds her body, and she grasps a great ring of etched silver in one massive fist. Nicnevin the Moon Weaver is the Mountain Ogress, Lady of Copper and Crystal, the Queen of Witches. Nicnevin is not what one usually imagines in a fey lady, but she has an imposing figure of mass and power. Her stature speaks to great physical strength and the stalwart defiance of the mountain itself, but her true power is in her command of magic. Pact Patron. The Queen of Witches is one of the foremost patrons of those who seek power through a pact. Many hag covens offer her loyalty and tribute. She rules from beneath her mountain, attended by a court of fey witches, hags, and mortal supplicants. Her favor is highly sought after, and it is said that a single hair from her coppery head contains all the power a mortal might ever desire. Nicnevin’s Lair The Queen of Witches makes her lair in a cavern deep beneath a windswept, rocky mountain. Near the mountain's peak is an enormous quartz crystal that grows down to the lair. This crystal channels the light of the moon into Nicnevin’s home on nights when she doesn’t emerge into the night sky. Her hags and attendant witches perform powerful rites in this magic-saturated sanctum. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Nicnevin takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Nicnevin can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Nicnevin causes a searing flare of moonlight to burst from a point she can see within 100 feet. All creatures Nicnevin chooses within 30 feet of that point take 13 (3d8) radiant damage, or half damage with a successful DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. Creatures not in their natural form have disadvantage on the saving throw, and if they fail, they revert to their natural form immediately (this does not affect any shape-changing effect created by Nicnevin). A wall of softly glowing crystal springs up from a solid surface in the lair. The wall is 60 feet long, 10 feet high, 5 feet thick, blocks line of sight, and sheds dim light out to 10 feet. Creatures within the wall’s area when it appears must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) radiant damage. The creature is pushed out of the wall’s space to whichever side it chooses. Each 5-foot section of the wall has AC 15, 10 hit points, resistance to fire, slashing, and piercing damage, immunity to poison and psychic damage, and vulnerability to thunder. The wall lasts until Nicnevin uses this action again or dies. Until initiative count 20 on the following round, any creatures other than fey who attempt to cast a spell must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or the spell fails and the spell slot is expended. A creature becomes aware of this effect the moment it begins casting a spell, and it can choose to take a different action instead. Regional Effects The region containing Nicnevin’s lair is warped by the queen’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Calling Nicnevin’s name under the light of the moon within 10 miles of her lair draws Nicnevin’s attention (as if she cast a scrying spell). She may visit the supplicant and hear a request, especially if the request is repeated on multiple nights. For 24 hours after the invocation, Nicenvin has a connection to the area that allows her to target it with teleportation circle. Despite the weather, the moon is always visible for most of the night within 10 miles of the lair. Cloud cover has many breaks, or the moon’s light sharply penetrates the clouds. Silvery fog is common within 10 miles of the lair, and strange whispers are heard within the mist. If Nicnevin dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair return to normal over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Absorb the Weave: When Nicnevin counters or dispels a spell, she heals damage equal to twice the spell level. Innate Spellcasting: Nicnevin’s spellcasting attribute is Charisma (save DC 19, +12 to hit with spell attacks). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: faerie fire, hex, misty step, silent image, tongues 3/day each: chain lightning, counterspell, dispel magic, hypnotic pattern, teleportation circle 2/day each: bestow curse, feeblemind, mass suggestion, flesh to stone 1/day each: power word kill, sleep (9th level), true polymorph Magic Resistance: Nicnevin has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Legendary Resistance (3/day): If Nicnevin fails a saving throw she can choose to succeed instead. Token of Favor: As an action, Nicnevin can cut a lock of her copper hair and twist it into a token for a creature she chooses. As long as that creature carries the token, it gains the magic resistance trait (see above). Nicnevin can revoke her favor at any time as a bonus action. When that happens, the creature loses the benefit of the token and, if Nicnevin wishes, the creature also has disadvantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects for 24 hours. Actions Multiattack: Nicnevin makes two attacks, or makes one attack and casts a spell. Moonsilver Ring: Melee Weapon Attack : +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., One target. Hit : 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) radiant damage. The moonsilver ring is a magical weapon. Blast: Ranged Spell Attack : +12 to hit, range 120 ft., One target. Hit : 11 (1d10 + 6) force damage. A creature hit by a blast must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet directly away from Nicnevin. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Attack: Nicnevin makes one attack. Spell (2 actions): Nicnevin casts a spell. Teleport: Nicnevin magically teleports to an unoccupied space she can see within 40 feet.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

