# Fey Lord, Moonlit King

**description**: Fey are capricious, mischievous, and often dangerous beings, but despite their chaotic reputations, they do follow a certain set of rules. These rules—widely misunderstood by outsiders—are codified and enforced by a cadre of lofty fey nobility. Befitting any courtly structure, the fey bow to lords and ladies: eldritch creatures of immense power who rule the courts. Heads of State. The fey lords and ladies are beings of high station and prodigious personal power. Each rules over at least a great city if not an entire nation. No matter the scope of a fey noble’s rule, in his or eyes, a fey ruler’s word is law, and so shall the rest of the world see it! Outsiders may not understand the edicts and interdicts of a fey noble, but that’s no protection against the harsh penalties that await any who break them, knowingly or otherwise. Circles of Power. Each fey noble is supreme in his or her own bailiwick, and the rulers maintain a rigid hierarchy among themselves. The Queen of Night and Magic is undeniably the most powerful of all fey nobles, and she rules cyclically with her embittered husband, the Moonlit King. Together, the Summer and Winter monarchs rule over the entire shadow fey race. The River King is next in power, and he rules over the river elves of the Arbonesse forest. The Snow Queen rules among the ice, snow, and plundering reavers of the far north, as wells as commanding the obedience of the fraughashar and ice maidens. The Bear King, the weakest politically, rules a northerly city-state where werebears are common and mead flows like water. The odd man out is the Lord of the Hunt. Though he is associated with both the shadow fey and the light elves, no one is certain of his true identity or how he fits into the political structure of fey nobility. Because he seldom concerns himself with politics, few have felt any need to press the question. Other fey courts and rulers certainly exist, though their rulers are more esoteric than those described here. Vacant Thrones. When a lord or lady dies, the court does not remain leaderless for long. Ambitious beings among the fey always hunger for more power and covet the station of their superiors. After a traditional month or year of mourning, vicious power struggles winnow the weak and pave the way for the most cunning or the strongest to take the court’s vacant throne. Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. Cold iron weapons, however, are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder. Moonlit King Dressed in archaic nobleman’s finery, this elf lord has wildly unkempt bluish hair and pale, almost luminous skin. His eyes bulge slightly from their sockets as they stare vacantly. The lord’s shadow moves slightly out of sync with his body, which appears solid in some portions and nearly transparent in others. His Lunar and Royal Majesty, Ludomir Imbrium the XVI, is also known as the Moonlit King of the Shadow Fey, Lord of the Shadow Realm, Lord Protector of the Black Elves, Duke of the Elf Ironcrags, Baron of Bratislor, Earl of Zobeck, Master of the Winter Palace, and Count-Palatine of Salzbach. A creature consumed by madness, the Moonlit King is an ephemeral vestige of greatness lost. He barely lives in reality anymore, and is beset by phantoms from his own mind conjured from shadows and regret. Dwindling Power. The Moonlit King lost the favor of his wife, the Queen of Night and Magic, long ago. When he fell from power, the Queen exiled him, banishing him from his seat in the Courts of the Shadow Fey. Now he endures in the crumbling, far-flung Tower of the Moon. The King has sunk deep into madness during his isolation and has turned to bargains with demons and devils, including Alquam the Demon Lord of Night, in a desperate bid to regain freedom. Moonlit King’s Lair The Moonlit King currently has been exiled by his wife, the Queen of Night and Magic, to the Tower of the Moon, which is hidden in a spiral labyrinth deep within the plane of shadows. The tower is a run-down, forlorn place, filled with false whispers and shadow ghosts of the mad fey lord’s own creation. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Moonlit King takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the Moonlit King can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: •The Moonlit King creates four beams of moonlight at four points he can see within 100 feet. The beams each illuminate a 10-foot radius with dim light. These moon beams last until the Moonlit King uses this action again, or until he dies. The Moonlit King chooses a point he can see within 100 feet. Disembodied whispers speaking of despair and failure fill a 30-foot radius from that point. All creatures other than fiends in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until initiative count 20 on the following round. The Moonlit King magically summons four shadow demons. The demons appear in unoccupied spaces the Moonlit King can see within 60 feet. The demons act immediately and remain until initiative count 20 on the following round. Regional Effects The region containing the Moonlit King’s lair is warped by the fey lord’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Dreams and fears take on a life of their own. Minor visual and auditory hallucinations plague creatures within 6 miles of the lair. The Moonlit King can communicate telepathically with and share the senses of any stryx within 10 miles of his lair. Weather conditions don’t inhibit moonlight shining within 10 miles of the lair; clouds part, rain seems to channel moonbeams, snow takes on a luminous silver glow. If the Moonlit King dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair return to normal over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Control Moonlight: As a bonus action, the Moonlit King can cause all areas of moonlight within 100 feet to move up to 10 feet. Innate Spellcasting: The Moonlit King’s innate spellcasting ability score is Charisma (save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). The Moonlit King can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components. At will: continual flame, detect evil and good, invisibility (self only), moonbeam, zone of truth 3/day each: blight, dispel evil and good, dispel magic 1/day each: demiplane, heal Legendary Resistance (3/day): If the Moonlit King fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons: The Moonlit King’s weapon attacks are magical, and deal an extra 7 (2d6) radiant damage (included below). Actions Multiattack: The Moonlit King makes three attacks with either his crystal staff or his moon bolt. Crystal Staff: Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) radiant damage. A target that is struck by the staff two or more times in one turn must make a successful DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn. Moon Bolt: Ranged Spell Attack : +11 to hit, range 150/600 ft., One target. Hit : 22 (4d10) radiant damage. If the target is a creature in a form other than its natural form, it takes an additional 22 [4d10] radiant damage and must succeed on a DC 19 Charisma saving throw or revert to its natural form. When the moon bolt hits a target, moonlight glows in a 10-foot radius from that point, creating dim light. The light is stationary and lasts until the end of the Moonlit King’s next turn. Fearful Shadows (Recharge 5-6): The Moonlit King magically animates the shadows of all foes within 60 feet of himself. The animated shadows attack the creatures who cast them. All affected creatures in the area take 35 (10d6) necrotic damage, or half damage with a successful DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. A creature that fails the saving throw also loses 1d4 points from its Strength score. A creature reduced to 0 Strength is unconscious until it regains at least 1 point of Strength. Strength lost to fearful shadows returns when the creature finishes a short or long rest. Summon Devil (1/Day).: The Moonlit King magically summons a lunar devil. The summoned devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of its summoner, acts as an ally of its summoner, and can’t summon other devils. It remains for 10 minutes, until its summoner dies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action. Reactions Shadow Slip: The Moonlit King takes on the quality of his manifest delusions when he is targeted by an attacker he can see. He becomes nearly insubstantial, so that the attack roll is made with disadvantage. If the attack hits, the Moonlit King takes half damage. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Staff: The Moonlit King makes a crystal staff attack. Lightwalking: The Moonlit King teleports from one area of moonlight to another within 100 feet. Aura of Madness (2 actions): While he is standing in an area of moonlight, the Moonlit King can spread his madness to other creatures within 30 feet. A creature other than a fiend that starts its turn in the aura or enters it for the first time on a turn (including when the aura is created) must succeed on a DC 19 Charisma saving throw or be confused (as if affected by the confusion spell) until the start of its next turn. The aura lasts until the start of the Moonlit King’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral good
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

