# Fey Lord, Lord of the Hunt

**description**: Fey are capricious, mischievous, and often dangerous beings, but despite their chaotic reputations, they do follow a certain set of rules. These rules—widely misunderstood by outsiders—are codified and enforced by a cadre of lofty fey nobility. Befitting any courtly structure, the fey bow to lords and ladies: eldritch creatures of immense power who rule the courts. Heads of State. The fey lords and ladies are beings of high station and prodigious personal power. Each rules over at least a great city if not an entire nation. No matter the scope of a fey noble’s rule, in his or eyes, a fey ruler’s word is law, and so shall the rest of the world see it! Outsiders may not understand the edicts and interdicts of a fey noble, but that’s no protection against the harsh penalties that await any who break them, knowingly or otherwise. Circles of Power. Each fey noble is supreme in his or her own bailiwick, and the rulers maintain a rigid hierarchy among themselves. The Queen of Night and Magic is undeniably the most powerful of all fey nobles, and she rules cyclically with her embittered husband, the Moonlit King. Together, the Summer and Winter monarchs rule over the entire shadow fey race. The River King is next in power, and he rules over the river elves of the Arbonesse forest. The Snow Queen rules among the ice, snow, and plundering reavers of the far north, as wells as commanding the obedience of the fraughashar and ice maidens. The Bear King, the weakest politically, rules a northerly city-state where werebears are common and mead flows like water. The odd man out is the Lord of the Hunt. Though he is associated with both the shadow fey and the light elves, no one is certain of his true identity or how he fits into the political structure of fey nobility. Because he seldom concerns himself with politics, few have felt any need to press the question. Other fey courts and rulers certainly exist, though their rulers are more esoteric than those described here. Vacant Thrones. When a lord or lady dies, the court does not remain leaderless for long. Ambitious beings among the fey always hunger for more power and covet the station of their superiors. After a traditional month or year of mourning, vicious power struggles winnow the weak and pave the way for the most cunning or the strongest to take the court’s vacant throne. Touch of Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. Cold iron weapons, however, are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder. Lord of the Hunt Astride a midnight horse sits a shirtless elven huntsman. His broad chest is thickly muscled and sports tattooed knot work. Great stag antlers crest the huntsman’s head, curving above his rich brown hair. The pale green glow that shines from his eyes obscures the elf’s strong features, and a massive spear twined with glowing green vines drives forward in his clenched fist. The baying of shadow hounds; thundering hoof beats; a brassy horn note; the Wild Hunt is coming, and pity its quarry. The Lord of the Hunt is an enigma among the fey nobles. His true identity beyond title and position as master of the Wild Hunt is unknown, but he has some connection to the Black Prince of the shadow fey—while also answering to elvish druids and consorting with powerful blood hags and dryads. The Wild Hunt. The Lord’s court is the Wild Hunt itself, a group of huntsmen, revelers, intelligent hounds, and poor souls they sweep up in their frenzy. His home, if he has any permanent dwelling, is as mysterious as his true identity. He and his Hunt move between the plane of shadow and the most ancient forests, so if he has a hidden seat of power, it is somewhere in one of those two places. Lord of the Hunt’s Lair If the Lord of the Hunt has any permanent lair, it is unknown to outsiders. While the Wild Hunt is a thing of beautiful and deadly grace on the move, the Lord’s encampment becomes his lair when the Hunt settles for any length of time. Tents and pavilions house the Lord and his Hunt, and great, roaring fires roast the day’s kill. The hours pass with revelry, feasting, physical contests, and strong drink. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Lord of the Hunt takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the Lord of the Hunt can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The Lord of the Hunt chooses a point he can see within the lair. Plants erupt from the ground in a 20-foot radius surrounding that point, creating difficult terrain. Any creatures in the area at the start of their turn, or who enter the area for the first time on a turn, must make a successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or become restrained by the vines and take 13 (3d8) poison damage. A creature can be freed if it or an adjacent ally uses an action to make a successful DC 15 Strength check. This effect lasts until the Lord of the Hunt uses this lair action again, or dies. The Lord of the Hunt lets out a war cry. A creature the Lord can see within 120 feet must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature repeats the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success. The Lord of the Hunt magically marks a target he can see within 120 feet. The Lord has advantage on attack rolls against the marked target. The mark lasts until initiative count 20 on the following turn. Regional Effects The region containing Lord of the Hunt’s encampment is warped by his magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Game animals become plentiful within 3 miles of the lair. Wisdom (Survival) checks to hunt for food are made with advantage, but patrols from the Wild Hunt don’t take kindly to poachers. Domesticated animals within 3 miles of the lair become skittish and fearful. They are more difficult to handle and flee the area if left to their own devices. Areas of natural terrain within 3 miles of the lair subtly rearrange themselves to create game trails through even the densest wilderness. When the Lord of the Hunt breaks camp or dies, the area around the previous campsite returns to normal immediately. Traits Expert Rider: While the Lord of the Hunt is mounted, any attack directed at his steed targets the rider instead. The steed uses the Lord of the Hunt’s saving throws. If the mount succeeds on a saving throw against a damaging effect, it takes no damage. Innate Spellcasting: The lord of the hunt’s innate spellcasting ability score is Charisma (save DC 16). The Lord of the Hunt can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components. At will: druidcraft, hunter’s mark, phantom steed 3/day each: commune with nature, conjure volley 1/day: conjure fey (conjured creatures vanish if the Lord of the Hunt’s concentration is broken) Legendary Resistance (3/day): If the Lord of the Hunt fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons: The Lord of the Hunt’s weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack: The Lord of the Hunt makes three melee attacks or three ranged attacks. Huntsman's Spear: Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6 ) poison damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. As a bonus action, the Lord of the Hunt can cause his spear to magically appear in his hand, even if it is destroyed. Huntsman's Spear: Ranged Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, range 60/120 ft., One target. Hit : 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. As a bonus action, the Lord of the Hunt can cause his spear to magically appear in his hand, even if it is destroyed. Howling Longbow: Ranged Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, range 150/600 ft., One target. Hit : 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Reactions Parry: The Lord of the Hunt adds 6 to his AC against one attack that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker and must be wielding a melee weapon. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Strike: The Lord of the Hunt makes a huntsman’s spear attack or a howling longbow attack. Tenacious Stride: The Lord of the Hunt moves half his speed, or half the speed of any steed he rides. Call the Hunt (2 actions): The Lord of the Hunt blows his hunting horn and chooses one creature he can see within 60 feet. If the creature can hear the horn, it must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw against this magic or be charmed by the Lord of the Hunt for 8 hours. A charmed creature joins the wild hunt and follows the verbal instructions of the Lord of the Hunt, treating all former allies as enemies. If a charmed creature damages or is damaged by a former ally, it can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once a creature successfully saves or the effect ends for it, it is immune to Call the Hunt for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Lawful neutral
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

