# Fiend Lord, Abhaddanayla

**description**: This imperious archfiend has five heads-that of a mustachioed, blue-skinned demon, a tiger, a crocodile, a vulture, and an ape-and six arms, each ending in an unsettling backward-facing paw. Dressed in elegant clothes of the finest silk, he is seated on an ornate golden throne. In a magnificent palace, perched precariously on a high mountaintop, lives Abhaddanayla, the Rakshasa Maharajah, a greater rakshasa (see Creature Codex ) so ancient he has been reincarnated seven times, growing in evil and power with each incarnation. He is revered-and feared-by his lesser brethren as the Lord of All Rakshasas. Rakshasa Gathering. Once a year, Abhaddanayla summons all the world's rakshasas to his palace to instruct them in the parts they are to play in his schemes across the world. This sinister conference culminates in a grotesque and bloody feast for the guests, in which dozens of humanoid captives are devoured. Master of Schemes and Magic. Abhaddanayla is a master of illusion, enchantment, and dark rakshasa magic he has acquired through centuries of studying loathsome tomes. He rarely leaves his palace, preferring to act through his many cat's paws. Abhaddanayla's spies and agents are everywhere, steering the rulers of cities and nations in the direction he wants them to go and eliminating those that stand in his path. Simian Scorn. Over the centuries, Abhaddanayla has clashed many times with the Monkey King (see Creature Codex ), who delights in wrecking the rakshasa lord's schemes. The first of these conflicts occurred when the Monkey King's army of apes and monkeys stopped an invading force of human soldiers acting under secret orders from Abhaddanayla. Later, when he was captured by the rakshasa lord, the Monkey King set fire to Abhaddanayla's palace with his tail and escaped. Abhaddanayla's hatred for the Monkey King leads him to delight in magic that depicts simian suffering. Abhaddanayla's Lair Abhaddanayla's lair is Sky Peak Palace, a magnificent building decorated with gold, marble, and jade and built on a mountaintop. The steep trail leading to the palace is treacherous and plagued by heavy snow, belying the dangers inside. Abhaddanayla can call upon a variety of rakshasa servants, and the palace is riddled with deadly traps. When encountered in his lair, Abhaddanayla has a challenge rating of 23 (50,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Abhaddanayla can cause one of the following effects; he can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Bewildering Vapor. A sweetly scented invisible vapor fills the halls of the lair. Each Humanoid in the lair must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on saving throws against enchantment spells until initiative count 20 on the next round. Mesmeric Designs. A psychedelic, twisting pattern of colored shapes appears in the air at a point Abhaddanayla can see within 120 feet of him. Each creature that isn't a rakshasa and that can see the pattern must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or be come incapacitated with a speed of 0 until initiative count 20 on the next round. Sinister Mist. Magical fog fills a 60-foot radius sphere centered on a point Abhaddanayla can see within 120 feet of him. The fog spreads around corners, and its area is lightly obscured. Each creature within the fog is cloaked in an illusion that makes it resemble another creature that is also in the fog, determined randomly. The changes fail to hold up to physical inspection. Otherwise, a creature must take an action to visually inspect a cloaked creature and succeed on a DC 21 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the creature is disguised. Regional Effects The region surrounding Abhaddanayla's lair is warped by his magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Haunting Dreams. A creature hostile to Abhaddanayla can't recover from exhaustion after a long rest while within 1 mile of his lair, as its sleep is haunted by bothersome dreams. Hidden Traps. Abhaddanayla's presence cloaks the traps protecting his lair with clever illusions. Intelligence (Investigation) and Wisdom (Perception) checks to detect traps within Sky Peak Palace are made with disadvantage while Abhaddanayla is in the palace. Wintry Weather. Blizzards are common within 6 miles of Abhaddanayla's lair, making it easy to get lost, and deep snow covers most surfaces in the area. If Abhaddanayla dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Abhaddanayla fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Limited Magic Immunity. Abhaddanayla can't be affected or detected by spells of 8th level or lower unless he wishes to be. He has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects. Puppet Master. When Abhaddanayla casts the charm person spell, he can target up to seven creatures. When he casts the dominate person spell, the spell's duration is concentration, up to 8 hours. When he casts the mass suggestion spell, the spell's duration is 30 days. Actions Multiattack. Abhaddanayla makes six Claw attacks or three Serpent Bow attacks. He can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting. If Abhaddanayla hits one creature with two Serpent Bow attacks, a swarm of snakes appears in the target's space, acting as an ally of Abhaddanayla and obeying his telepathic commands. The swarm remains for 1 minute, until Abhaddanayla dies, or until he dismisses it as a bonus action. He can have no more than four swarms active at a time. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage, and the target is cursed if it is a creature. The magical curse takes effect whenever the target takes a short or long rest, filling the target's thoughts with horrible images and dreams. The cursed target gains no benefit from finishing a short or long rest. The curse lasts until it is lifted by a remove curse spell or similar magic. Serpent Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) poison damage. Burning Monkey Cloud (Recharge 5-6). Abhaddanayla conjures a cloud of quasi-real burning, screaming monkeys in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point he can see within 60 feet of him. Each creature in the area must make a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 38 (11d6) fire damage and 38 (11d6) psychic damage and becomes frightened for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't frightened. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. Abhaddanayla casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21): At will: charm person , detect magic, detect thoughts, mage hand, minor illusion 3/day each: banishment, fly, invisibility, major image, suggestion CHA 1/day each: dominate person, geas (as an action) , mass suggestion, plane shift, true seeing Bonus Actions Duplicitous Disguise. Abhaddanayla covers himself and anything he is wearing or carrying with a illusion that makes him look like a Small or Medium Humanoid. The illusion ends if he takes a bonus action to end it or if he dies. The changes wrought by this effect fail to hold up to physical inspection. Otherwise, a creature must take an action to visually inspect the illusion and succeed on a DC 21 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that Abhaddanayla is disguised. Reactions Sacrificial Monkey (3/Day). When Abhaddanayla is hit by a melee attack, a withered monkey composed of shadow appears and throws itself into the path of the attack, halving the damage Abhaddanayla takes before vanishing. Legendary Actions Abhaddanayla can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Abhaddanayla regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Attack. Abhaddanayla makes one Claw or Serpent Bow attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Abhaddanayla uses Spellcasting. Misleading Escape (Costs 2 Actions). Abhaddanayla becomes invisible at the same time that an illusory double of himself appears where he is standing. After the double appears, Abhaddanayla can move up to his speed. Both effects last until the start of his next turn, but the invisibility ends early if Abhaddanayla attacks or casts a spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

