# Fiend Lord, Malaabit

**description**: The glossy black fur coating the fiend's bullish body changes to a shock of crimson just above his hooves. Three heads top his muscular humanoid torso: a ram's head on his right, a bull's head in the center, and a male human head on his left. Malaabit is the fiendish master of the past, present, and future, according to himself at least, and he is happy to share his knowledge—for a small price. Each of Malaabit's heads sees the truth of whatever he observes. His ram head sees the past, his bull head sees the present, and his human head sees the future. He allows news of his oracular abilities to spread far and wide, and as a result, many ambitious people seek him out, hoping to accomplish great deeds in their lifetime. Once a deal for his services is reached—and the requester has made the appropriate sacrifice—Malaabit keeps his end of the deal. And he never, ever lies about what he sees. Small Sacrifices . Unlike many fiends, Malaabit isn't interested in anything as tawdry and ephemeral as mortal souls. Instead, he requires a blood sacrifice of his choosing before he will tell a person what the future holds for them, or how their past has come to inform their present. When he is asked for a reading, he informs the petitioner exactly who has to die for them to get what they want. The deaths Malaabit orders are never morally reprehensible to the specific petitioner. He asks holy warriors to slay murderers and despots; he asks blackguards to murder innocents. When they investigate the person they have been asked to slay, prophecy seekers find they are just as repugnant or virtuous as the fiend told them. Master of Nothing . Malaabit desires nothing less than the utter destruction of reality. The executions he requests all serve his ultimate goal of bringing about the end of everything, one insignificant-seeming death at a time. Chimeric Appearance . Those who encounter Malaabit sometimes assume he is a unique form of chimera due to his tripartite appearance. Malaabit does not make such claims, nor does he represent himself as such a creature, but he secretly revels in the ability of mortals to deceive themselves. Malaabit's Lair Malaabit doesn't have a den on the Lower Planes, instead making his home exclusively on the Material Plane. He moves frequently to avoid being too easily locatable, but he favors the ruins of ancient places that were suffused in magic or deep cave complexes that hold arcane radiation. When encountered in his lair, Malaabit has a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Malaabit takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; he can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Enthralling Surge. Malaabit's past and future platitudes rumble barely intelligible through his lair. Each creature that isn't a Construct or Undead within 60 feet of Malaabit must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by Malaabit until initiative count 20 on the next round. Psychic Distress. The anguished cries of past and future sacrifices to Malaabit's schemes pour from a point Malaabit can see within 120 feet of him. Each creature within 15 feet of that point must make a DC 18 Charisma saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Psychic Squall. The psychic chatter of past and future supplicants surrounds Malaabit. Each spellcaster concentrating on a spell within 30 feet of Malaabit must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or lose concentration. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Malaabit fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Three Heads. Malaabit has three heads. He has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being deafened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Reactive Precognition. Malaabit gets two extra reactions that can be used only for Prescient Defense or Tactical Foresight. Unquenchable Voice. Malaabit's voice can't be quieted or silenced by any means. Actions Multiattack. Malaabit makes three Slam or Psychic Blast attacks. If Malaabit hits one creature with two Slam attacks, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Psychic Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (5d6 + 5) psychic damage. Allegorical Apologue (Recharge 5-6). Malaabit recites a short moral story about animals, choosing one of the following options: Oracular Fortune. Malaabit's fable fills the listeners' minds with the hope of future success. Each creature of Malaabit's choice within 20 feet of him and that can hear him gains 10 (3d6) temporary hp and has advantage on the next attack roll, ability check, or saving throw it makes before the start of Malaabit's next turn. Sins of the Past. Malaabit's parable brings forth a torrent of bad memories. Each creature of Malaabit's choice within 20 feet of him and that can hear him must make a DC 18 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 35 (10d6) psychic damage and has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until the start of Malaabit's next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and doesn't have disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, or saving throws. Travel the Planes (1/Day). Malaabit transports himself to a different plane of existence. This legendary action works like the plane shift spell, except he can affect only himself and can't use it to banish an unwilling creature. Reactions Prescient Defense. When a creature scores a critical hit against Malaabit, the hit becomes a normal hit. Tactical Foresight. When Malaabit fails an attack roll, he can reroll the die and must use the new roll. Legendary Actions Malaabit can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Malaabit regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Foretell Favor. Malaabit foretells fortune for one creature he can see within 30 feet of him. The target can roll a d6 and add the number rolled to the next attack roll or saving throw it makes. Once Malaabit has used this legendary action on a creature, he can't use it on that creature again until he has used it on another creature. Move. Malaabit moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Pronounce Doom. Malaabit pronounces doom upon one creature he can see within 30 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Charisma saving throw or roll a d6 and subtract the number rolled from the next attack roll or saving throw it makes. Once Malaabit has used this legendary action on a creature, he can't use it on that creature again until he has used it on another creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

