# Fierna

**description**: Fierna rules Phlegethos alongside her father, Belial. She is emotionally intelligent, and her charisma has earned her many allies and few enemies in the Nine Hells. Although some view her as incompetent, Fierna’s true intentions are hidden behind a smokescreen of brashness. Her father, Belial, was a key player in the Reckoning, and due to his actions, Fierna was granted primary leadership of Phlegethos. Despite this political appearance, Fierna and Belial rule together, often meeting in secret to discuss strategy and upcoming plans. Some of the more ignorant archdevils view the relationship between Belial and Fierna as something to be exploited or broken. In reality, Fierna deeply respects her father, and the feeling is mutual. Laying eyes on Fierna, one can immediately see the reasons she is so admired: she is impossibly beautiful. Her beauty is a strength, complementing her strategic mind and ingenuity. Fierna’s Lair Fierna’s lair is a palace, a tower of crystalline stone wreathed in blue flame. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Fierna can take one lair action to cause the following effect or one from the archdevil lair action list ; she can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Fiery Reversal . Fierna exchanges places with a creature she can see within 30 feet of her. Both her old location and her new location erupt into flames that persist for 1 minute. Anyone entering either flame must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 28 (8d6) fire damage. Regional Effects The region containing Fierna’s lair is corrupted by her presence, which creates the following effect: Smoke-cloud . A vast fog rises 3 feet above ground within 1 mile of the lair, completely obscuring the ground. Any creature having the prone condition at the start of their turn must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d12) necrotic damage from choking on the noxious fumes. If Fierna dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Fear Aura. When a creature starts their turn within 120 feet of Fierna, they must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or have the frightened condition until they leave the aura. A creature that succeeds on the saving throw is immune to this effect for 1 hour. Fiendish Regeneration. Fierna regains 20 hit points at the start of her turn. If she takes radiant damage this trait doesn’t function at the start of her next turn. Fierna dies only if she starts her turn with 0 hit points and is unable to regenerate. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Fierna fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Fierna has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Princess of Hellfire. Fire conjured by Fierna becomes Hellfire. It ignores resistances and immunities to fire damage, deals double damage to creatures vulnerable to fire or necrotic damage, can’t be extinguished through any means, and is capable of melting stone or igniting inflammable objects. Actions Multiattack. Fierna makes three attacks using Flame Blade, Mote of Flame, or a combination of the two. Flame Blade. Melee Spell Attack: +20 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d6 + 9) fire damage. Mote of Flame. Fierna targets a creature she can see within 90 feet of her. The target must make a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (3d8 + 9) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Wreath of Flames. When hit by a melee attack and Fierna can see her attacker, she covers herself in Hellfire, and the attacker takes 13 (3d8) fire damage. Legendary Actions Fierna can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Fierna regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Blade. Fierna makes a Flame Blade attack. Conjure Hellfire (Costs 2 Actions). Fierna chooses a point she can see within 150 feet of her. All creatures in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Call Underling (Costs 3 Actions). Fierna summons an allied spined devil in an unoccupied space that she can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28645
- Challenge Rating: 25

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Chains of Asmodeus

