# Fomorian Theurge

**description**: The fomorian theurge wields magic against their fey enemies, bargaining with powerful forces (such as elementals, titans, and dark fey) to augment its intellect and command devastating elemental magic. Fomorian theurges take leadership and advisory roles in fomorian society, using their magical talents to inspire—or bully—their people. To design the fomorian theurge, spellcasting traits from warlocks and wizards were added to the existing fomorian stat block, as well as additional hit points to reflect their increase in power. The theurge’s creature type was also changed to Fey to reflect how the bargains it made have affected its physiology. Tactics . While other fomorians charge into battle, the theurge prefers to support allies with spellcasting. They begin by using Baleful Gaze, then target the creature affected by their gaze with damaging spells. Unlike many spellcasters, the theurge doesn’t fear melee attacks because of their Elemental Nimbus ability, which they will use even if the effect might harm allies. All-Seeing Eye . When they aren’t incapacitated, the theurge can’t be surprised. As an action, they can view any location within 1 mile of them. While viewing a location that isn’t in the theurge’s immediate vicinity, they can’t see their immediate vicinity. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the theurge’s darkvision. In addition, they can see a faint aura around any visible creature or object that bears magic, and learn its school of magic, if any. Actions Multiattack . The theurge makes two Staff attacks, or makes one Staff attack and uses Baleful Gaze once. Staff . Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit : 16 (3d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage (theurge’s choice). Baleful Gaze . The theurge focuses their hate and anger on another creature within 60 feet of them that can see them. The creature must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) necrotic damage and becoming poisoned until the end of its next turn on a failed save, or taking half as much damage and not becoming poisoned on a successful one. Command Elementals . The theurge speaks words of power to compel Elementals to serve them. Each Elemental within 30 feet of the theurge that can hear them must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the theurge for 10 minutes. While charmed, the Elemental obeys all the theurge’s commands to the best of its ability. Spellcasting . The theurge’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). They can cast the following spells: 3/day each: cone of cold , fireball , lightning bolt Bonus Actions Misty Step . The theurge can magically teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space they can see. Reactions Elemental Nimbus . When the theurge is hit with a melee attack, they can surround themself with a halo of elemental energies. Each creature within 10 feet of the theurge must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. The theurge selects the damage type from the following list: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 22851
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 12

