# Forgotten Regent

**description**: A dwarf sits on a stone throne caked in a layer of ice, her skin a pale blue and her countenance haunted. She carries a maul made of ice etched with glowing blue runes, and a tarnished golden crown sits upon her head. The ghostly dwarf's eyes glow a bright blue as she glares around her throne room, the sounds of mournful dead echoing around her. Long ago, a kingdom in the frozen north had a ruler who was too young to lead a kingdom. A regent was appointed to guide the land until the rightful ruler came of age. Unfortunately, the regent's actions brought a terrible tragedy to the land, leading to the death of the rightful ruler and many of the kingdom's people. Though the kingdom fell, the regent remained after death, cursed to lead the damned souls of the people as punishment for failing to protect them in life. Ally of the Damned. The forgotten regent has been cursed to lead a kingdom of the damned in the frozen reaches of the world. The kingdom's people have risen as undead creatures that follow the regent. Though its subjects are now undead, the regent takes its job as leader and protector as seriously as when its subjects were alive. It reacts with violence against intruders and with diplomacy toward those requesting a meeting. During times of great need, heroes and villains have been known to seek the aid of the forgotten regent. The regent's undead army could turn the tide of any battle, but the regent doesn't send its citizens to battle carelessly. Cursed Ruler. The curse upon the kingdom is tied to the regent. Should the regent be defeated, the curse lifts, allowing the souls of the kingdom's people to seek eternal rest, and allowing the kingdom to fully fade into history as the remaining structures crumble. Some regents long for this end, knowing it is the only way to truly save their people, while others fight it, knowing their continued existence is the only thing keeping the kingdom's legacy alive. Forgotten Regent's Lair Forgotten regents inhabit ruined forts and castles deep in the frozen reaches of the arctic or high in rugged, cold mountains. A perpetual wind in and around the lair chills the living, ensuring the regent's solitude, and the outskirts of the lair features the remains of a great kingdom, such as ruined buildings, fallen sculptures, broken cobblestones, or similar remnants. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the forgotten regent takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the regent can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Freezing Wind. A blistering cold wind blows through the lair near the forgotten regent. Each creature within 60 feet of the regent that isn't Undead must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) cold damage. Gases and vapors are dispersed by the wind, and unprotected flames are extinguished. Protected flames, such as lanterns, have a 50 percent chance of being extinguished. Ghostly Grasp. The ghostly arms of dozens of citizens of the regent's former kingdom briefly reach up from the ground and drag up to two creatures the regent can see within 60 feet of it closer to the regent. Each target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 20 feet closer to the regent. Icy Ground. Ice rimes the ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point the regent can see within 60 feet of it. The area becomes difficult terrain, and each creature there must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. When a creature enters the area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, that creature must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. The ice melts away when the regent uses this lair action again or when the regent dies. Regional Effects The region containing a forgotten regent's lair suffers just as much from its curse as it does, which creates one or more of the following effects: Ghostly Reflection. The kingdom's cursed souls haunt the land. Occasionally, when a Humanoid looks at a sheet of ice while within 1 mile of the regent's lair, the Humanoid sees the ghostly face of one of the kingdom's cursed citizens instead of their own. Haunted Fog. A chilly fog lightly obscures the land within 3 miles of the regent's lair. Voices in the fog whisper to travelers, warning them to turn back from the lair. Historical Nightmares. Whenever a creature with an Intelligence of 5 or higher sleeps within 6 miles of the regent's lair, the creature suffers nightmares of the events surrounding the fall of the regent's kingdom. If the Forgotten Regent dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. Frozen Reign. When a friendly Undead within 30 feet of the regent hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4 (1d8) cold damage. Incorporeal Movement. The regent can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the regent fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Turning Defiance. The regent and any Undead within 30 feet of it have advantage on saving throws against effects that turn Undead. Undead Nature. The regent doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The forgotten regent makes two Frozen Rune Maul or Frost Blast attacks. Frozen Rune Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning plus 7 (2d6) cold damage. Frost Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) cold damage. Glacier Imprisonment (Recharge 6). One creature the regent can see within 60 feet of it must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is instantly petrified in a block of magical ice. Otherwise, a creature that fails the saving throw begins to freeze and is restrained. The restrained creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn, becoming petrified in a block of magical ice on a failure or ending the effect on a success. The petrification lasts until the creature is freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. Alternatively, the ice block can be attacked and destroyed (AC 15; hp 30; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to poison and psychic damage), freeing the creature. When the ice block takes damage that isn't fire, the petrified creature takes half the damage dealt to the ice block. Frozen Citizenry (1/Day). The forgotten regent magically calls 2d4 skeletons or zombies (the regent's choice) or two glacial corruptors (see Tome of Beasts 2 ). The called creatures arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting as allies of the regent and obeying its spoken commands. The Undead remain for 1 hour, until the regent dies, or until the regent dismisses them as a bonus action. Legendary Actions The forgotten regent can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The regent regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Army of the Damned. The regent raises an arm into the air, sending out a chill wind that empowers Undead allies. Each friendly Undead within 30 feet of it gains 10 temporary hp. Frozen Rune Maul (Costs 2 Actions). The regent makes one Frozen Rune Maul attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The regent magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

