# Forzaantirilys

**description**: The blood dragon known as the Ashen Song is a creature of ash and cinder, her body wreathed in flames that burn with an unearthly heat. Forzaantirilys (for-zan-TILL-ih- riss) lairs in the heart of the world’s largest volcano, and if the rumors are true, she can see and hear through magma and lava flows everywhere. Forzaantirilys is an inferno of anger, and this burning rage makes her immune to all fires, including the harsh light of the sun. She hates humanoids for their belief they are entitled to the Mundane World, and she abhors the gods who created them. The Ashen Song also despises the wyrm Xaantikorijek, who killed her mate, Frezzelvarax (frezz-el-VAR-ax), nearly a thousand years ago. She wants nothing more than to see the world consumed and remade by her fire, though she knows wanton destruction would lead to her demise. Traits Hellfire. Fire damage dealt by Forzaantirilys ignores damage resistance. Ireful Defense (3/Day). When Forzaantirilys fails a saving throw, she can succeed instead. When she does, attack rolls made against her have advantage until the end of her next turn. Actions Multiattack. Forzaantirilys makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d10 + 10) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) fire dam age, and the target is set on fire for 1 minute or until the target or a creature who can reach them uses an action to extinguish the flames. A creature who is on fire at the start of their turn takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. If a creature who is already on fire is set on fire again on a subsequent turn, the damage isn’t cumulative, but the duration of the fire resets to 1 minute. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d6 + 10) slashing damage, and Forzaantirilys can move the target up to 15 feet horizontally. Scorching Breath (Recharge 5–6). Forzaantirilys exhales fire in a 90 foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a crea ture takes 70 (20d6) fire damage, and any mundane metal objects they are wearing or carrying are melted into slag and destroyed. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and their equipment isn’t destroyed. Additionally, the fire remains in that area until the end of Forzaantirilys’s next turn. For the duration, that area is difficult terrain, and a creature who enters that area for the first time on a turn or ends their turn there takes 14 (4d6) fire damage. Bonus Actions Blazing Rush. Forzaantirilys moves up to half her speed. If she enters a creature’s space during this move, the creature takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. Reactions Ignite the Insolent. When a creature within 120 feet of Forzaantirilys attacks her, the attacker must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the attacker is set on fire for 1 minute or until the attacker or a creature who can reach them uses an action to extinguish the flames. A creature who is on fire at the start of their turn takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. If a creature who is already on fire is set on fire again on a subsequent turn, the damage isn’t cumulative, but the duration of the fire resets to 1 minute. Villain Actions Forzaantirilys has three villain actions. She can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. She can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1: Cinderfall. A 30 foot radius cloud of smoke and cinders surrounds Forzaantirilys until the end of her next turn. That area is heavily obscured for creatures other than Forzaantirilys. An enemy who needs to breathe and starts their turn within the cloud must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Action 2: Ashen Armor. Forzaantirilys’s skin hardens into a protective armor of ashen scales, granting her 100 temporary hit points. Until all these temporary hit points are gone, a creature within 5 feet of Forzaantirilys who touches her or hits her with an attack takes 14 (4d6) fire damage. Action 3: Supernova. Forzaantirilys unleashes a massive burst of light and heat. Each creature within 120 feet of her must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) fire damage plus 35 (10d6) radiant damage and is blinded. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded. The blindness lasts until cured by a power, a spell, or a similar supernatural effect that removes the blinded condition.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

