# Forzaantilirys

**description**: Dragon Tactics Dragons seek lairs with lofty ceilings (or none at all) so they can use one of their greatest defenses: flight. A dramatic encounter with a dragon can quickly become a slog if the wyrm lands and never moves around the battlefield. Dragons are smart! They know to use their long reach and breath weapon to make life difficult for their enemies. Dragons choose extremely defensible places for their lairs, which are part home and part treasure vault. The wyrms rely on loyal guardians and an environment that is inhospitable to mortal treasure hunters and would-be heroes. For instance, Forzaantilirys makes her home in Mount Brazen, an enormous volcano that is hotter than the Seven Cities of Hell. Her treasure sits on an obsidian island floating in a lake of lava in the heart of the mountain. Just walking through the tunnels to reach Forzaantilirys’s hoard would bake most people to death. Traits Hellfire. Fire damage dealt by Forzaantilirys ignores damage resistance. Ireful Defense ( 3 /Day). When Forzaantilirys fails a saving throw, she can succeed instead. When she does, attack rolls made against her have advantage until the end of her next turn. Actions Multiattack. Forzaantilirys makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d10 + 10) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage, and the target is set on fire for 1 minute or until the target or a creature who can reach them uses an action to extinguish the flames. A creature who is on fire at the start of their turn takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. If a creature who is already on fire is set on fire again on a subsequent turn, the damage isn’t cumulative, but the duration of the fire resets to 1 minute. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d6 + 10) slashing damage, and Forzaantilirys can move the target up to 15 feet horizontally. Scorching Breath (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Forzaantilirys exhales fire in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 70 (20d6) fire damage, and any mundane metal objects they are wearing or carrying are melted into slag and destroyed. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and their equipment isn’t destroyed. Additionally, the fire remains in that area until the end of Forzaantilirys’s next turn. For the duration, that area is difficult terrain, and a creature who enters that area for the first time on a turn or ends their turn there takes 14 (4d6) fire damage. Bonus Actions Blazing Rush. Forzaantilirys moves up to half her speed. If she enters a creature’s space during this move, the creature takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. Reactions Ignite the Insolent. When a creature within 120 feet of Forzaantilirys attacks her, the attacker must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the attacker is set on fire for 1 minute or until the attacker or a creature who can reach them uses an action to extinguish the flames. A creature who is on fire at the start of their turn takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. If a creature who is already on fire is set on fire again on a subsequent turn, the damage isn’t cumulative, but the duration of the fire resets to 1 minute. Villain Actions Forzaantilirys has three villain actions. She can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. She can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Cinderfall. A 30-foot-radius cloud of smoke and cinders surrounds Forzaantilirys until the end of her next turn. That area is heavily obscured for creatures other than Forzaantilirys. An enemy who needs to breathe and starts their turn within the cloud must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Action 2 : Ashen Armor. Forzaantilirys’s skin hardens into a protective armor of ashen scales, granting her 100 temporary hit points. Until all these temporary hit points are gone, a creature within 5 feet of Forzaantilirys who touches her or hits her with an attack takes 14 (4d6) fire damage. Action 3 : Supernova. Forzaantilirys unleashes a massive burst of light and heat. Each creature within 120 feet of her must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) fire damage plus 35 (10d6) radiant damage and is blinded. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded. The blindness lasts until cured by a power, a spell, or a similar supernatural effect that removes the blinded condition.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

