# Frostjack

**description**: This spiteful fey is lithe and tall with icy blue skin and icicle hair. As it passes by a window, frosty fern-like patterns stretch across the glass. Wicked servants of the Snow Queen (see Tome of Beasts ), frostjacks are sent from her icy castle to cause mayhem. The Snow Queen can call upon a variety of allies, but she prefers the self-sufficiency of the frostjacks. Icy Tricksters. Frostjacks like nothing better than terrorizing villages in the frozen reaches where the borders between the mortal world and the fey realms are thin. They often travel with a pack of winter wolves, sending the wolves into the settlement first to sow panic. Meanwhile, the frostjacks sneak inside the houses in search of valuables as tribute for their queen and freeze the fingers and toes of the houses' inhabitants. The devious fey try to trick the occupants into revealing hidden family heirlooms. Those who fail to cooperate are frozen or fed to the wi nter wolves. Chilling Presence. At the start of each of the frostjack's turns, each creature within 15 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 5 (2d4) cold damage. For each minute a creature spends within 15 feet of the frostjack, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or suffer one level of exhaustion from cold exposure. Unprotected, nonmagical flames within 15 feet of the frostjack are extinguished. Any spells of 3rd level or lower that provide resistance to cold damage and that are within 15 feet of the frostjack immediately end. Water freezes if it remains within 15 feet of the frostjack for at least 1 minute. Ice Walk. The frostjack can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement. Magic Resistance. The frostjack has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The frostjack makes two Ice Blade attacks and one Winter's Touch attack. Ice Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) cold damage. Winter's Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature begins to freeze and has disadvantage on weapon attack rolls or ability checks that use Strength or Dexterity. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn, becoming incapacitated and unable to move or speak as it freezes solid on a failure or ending the effect on a success. The creature remains frozen until it spends at least 12 hours in a warm area thawing out, or until it takes least 10 fire damage. Icicle Barrage (Recharge 5-6). The frostjack launches icicles from its hand in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) piercing damage and 17 (5d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Hoarfrost Warding (3/Day). When the frostjack takes fire damage, it gains resistance to fire damage, including against the triggering attack, until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

