# Frost Wight Lord

**description**: At first glance, a frost wight resembles an ordinary animated skeleton or zombie. But as one approaches it, a few odd details begin to be noticeable - a bluish glow from within its hollow eye sockets and ribcage and frost emanating from its body. Those unfortunate enough to be within very close proximity of a frost wight will also feel a grim embrace of cold and despair. The frost wight brings with it the power of a merciless winter that seeks to drain the warmth of all living creatures. Icy Guardians. Frost wights are created by necromancers and frost mages to serve as guardians of royal barrows, crypts, and tombs. Most are raised from the remains of the fiercest warriors, frost wights become eternal sentinels, forever watching their charge even after their masters are long gone. More powerful necromancers can use the same arcane rituals to transform the corpses beasts and monstrosities into frost wights. They lie buried under the snow, animating and bursting from their hiding place when an intruder approaches. Legendary Frost Wight. There is a legend of a frost wight that gained full sentience and free will, one who is said to have once been a prince or king. No one truly knows how it happened, but a few believe an evil death god from the elemental plane of ice may have granted the frost wight this power to use it as its champion. This lord of the frost wights is now amassing an army of undead somewhere in the coldest and most desolate icy wastes. A Frost Wight Lord's Lair A frost wight lord makes its lair in the frozen ruins of a keep or dungeon, located in the middle of an unforgiving arctic wasteland or icy tundra. Zombies and wights regularly patrol these areas. The challenge rating of a frost wight lord increases to 14 (11,500 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the frost wight takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the frost wight can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Ice and frost burst from the ground in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within 120 feet of the frost wight. Each creature other than the frost wight in that area must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the ice. While restrained, a creature takes 3 (1d6) cold damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 16 Strength check, escaping from the ice on a success. The ice can also be destroyed to end the effect. Each 5-foot-square section of ice has AC 10, 15 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to poison and psychic damage. The ice lasts for 1 minute, until the frost wight uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the frost wight dies. The frost wight targets up to 3 creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become vulnerable to cold until initiative count 20 on the next round. The frost wight causes up to six corpses within the lair to rise as skeletons, zombies, or wights. These Undead obey the frost wight's telepathic commands, which can reach anywhere in the lair. Traits Dreadfrost Aura. The frost wight generates an aura of baleful frost that fills the area within 20 feet of it. Any creature that starts its turn in this area takes 9 (2d8) cold damage and must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the frost wight until the start of its next turn. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the frost wight fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the frost wight has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Turn Resistance. The frost wight has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns Undead. Actions Multiattack. The frost wight makes three Scythe attacks or three Longbow attacks. It can use its Frostchill Touch in place of one Scythe attack. Frostchill Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) cold damage and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or gain 2 levels of exhaustion. When the target finishes a short or long rest, the target loses every level of exhaustion gained from this attack. A humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a frost wight under this frost wight's control, unless the humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. This frost wight can have no more than six other frost wights under its control at one time. Scythe. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage. Frostchill Blast (Recharge 5–6). The frost wight magically emits supernatural frost in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) cold damage and gains 2 levels of exhaustion. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Legendary Actions The frost wight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The frost wight regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The frost wight makes a Scythe or Longbow attack. Chilling Glare. The frost wight targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target takes 10 (2d6 + 3) cold damage and must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the frost wight for 1 minute. A frightened creature is paralyzed. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Command. The frost wight targets one allied Undead it can see within 30 feet of it and telepathically gives it a command. The target must use its reaction to make one melee attack. Frostchill Touch (Costs 2 Actions). The frost wight uses Frostchill Touch.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

