# Fungi, Mulcher

**description**: The large orange flower reveals a tall, blue stalk. The petals clamp on a swarm of insects, showing their fleshy, tooth-like nature. A voracious fungus, the mulcher hides within topsoil, waiting to trap oblivious creatures. Hidden Danger. This massive fungus is as sweeping and bulky as a dragon turtle. It uses the ground as cover, where it can ambush prey that travels above it. Alternatively, it can trigger pit traps beneath its prey, impaling the falling creatures on its spike-like mycelium. Once prey has been impaled, the fungus drinks in the victim's blood as greedily as groundwater. Weak Spot . When injured or when it fails to capture sufficient food, the mulcher pushes its fragile central stalk to the surface, releasing insect-attracting pheromones to gain some quick nutrients from the meager prey. Central Stalk Weakness. The mulcher's central stalk lies hidden within the mulcher's fungal mass. When exposed, the central stalk can be attacked and destroyed (AC 13; hp 50; vulnerability to acid, cold, and fire damage). If the central stalk is destroyed, the mulcher has disadvantage on attack rolls and can't use Expose Stalk until it regrows a new central stalk at the end of its next long rest. Disturbed Soil (Exposed Stalk Only). The ground within 20 feet of the mulcher is difficult terrain. Mulcher Pit. If the mulcher burrows at least 20 feet straight toward a creature, it can dig a 10-foot diameter, 20-foot-deep pit beneath the creature. Each Large or smaller creature in the pit's area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall into the mycelium-lined pit and land prone, taking 14 (4d6) piercing damage from the spiked mycelium in addition to any falling damage. The mulcher can make one Mycelium Spike attack against a prone creature in the pit as a bonus action. Stalk Regeneration (Exposed Stalk Only). The mulcher gains 15 hp at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hp. Actions Multiattack. The mulcher makes two Mycelium Spike attacks. Mycelium Spike. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 15) if the mulcher doesn't have two other creatures grappled. Excavate. While underground, the mulcher creates a 20-foot square cover on the ground over itself and lurks just below the surface. The cover is identical to the ground around it. When a creature enters the cover's space, the mulcher can make one Mycelium Spike attack against the creature as a reaction, destroying the cover. The target has disadvantage on the saving throw to avoid being grappled. Bonus Actions Expose Stalk. The mulcher exposes its central stalk above the ground until the end of its next turn or until it ends the effect as a bonus action. While the central stalk is exposed, the mulcher can't burrow. Rapid Burrow. The mulcher burrows up to 60 feet. Opportunity attacks against it are made with disadvantage when the mulcher burrows out of an enemy's reach in this way. Creatures grappled by it are freed before it burrows. Reactions Emergent Stalk. When the mulcher is reduced to below half its hp maximum or when a creature scores a critical hit against it, the mulcher immediately uses Expose Stalk.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

