# Gal Gullion

**description**: The House Countertactician Whereas the youngest child of the family often receives the most attention and care from its members, in drow households the treatment is much different; they are invariably left to their own devices, or completely ignored, and any concern about the youngster comes from house clergy and servants. From a very early age Gal learned the importance of independence and sound judgment. But while his elder siblings might enjoy more prestige, he is still a noble and belongs to the most powerful house in all of Holoth; he continued to have the finest trainers, tutors and sparring opponents to be found anywhere in the Underworld, but that was as much to maintain Maelora’s face and standing as anything. The boy knew this, but endured it uncomplaining. He was too far down the hierarchy of the matron’s offspring to expect much different at this stage. He would need to prove himself later in life. As a result, Gal’s childhood taught him to be critically self-reliant and disciplined; he soon realized he had “an eye for things” and could, given time, make accurate judgments with regard to the actions of others. He asked for little and treasured what he was given, conserving his resources to achieve his goals with maximum efficiency. Naturally for a noble drow, two of these goals are to ensure his continued existence and rise to prominence in Holoth; to this end, he’s become an extremely well-read military historian and tactician easily the equal of any drow found in the war college. Moreover, his innate ability to make reliable assessments has led him to be prepared for any and all possible contingencies, however unlikely or convoluted. Even his mother becomes exasperated occasionally by his attention to detail, but knows his opinion is invariably beyond question on such matters once he has turned his mind toward an enemy. In his role as house Countertactician, he advises Maelora on the actions and motives of the other noble houses. Increasingly of late Maelora has left such machinations to him alone, a sure sign that she is pulling away from mortal concerns. This has put him at odds with Mathorn, who as Gatherer of Secrets is his primary source for information. Mathorn respects his abilities, but resents his position of power that allows him to make requests of her in Maelora’s name. In turn, Gal has begun collecting his own cadre of informants, acting through his lieutenant and advisor, Mal Yrr Ness . Born of a lesser noble house, Mal Yrr operates in service to House Gullion openly, but she is just one of many of the lesser houses who have attached themselves to the First House, and thus is able to operate freely. Gal is, as any drow should be, extremely paranoid and has plans in place for even the most heretical event. He has grave doubts about the behavior of the vidre, as their intentions seem entirely predictable to him. If and when his mother Maelora ever proves herself to be totally insane, he is positive that the piece of the Vidrefacte crystal hidden in his room will prove pivotal to her downfall. In addition, while Gal enjoys being able to deal with any situation that arises by himself and appreciates the admiration others give his ability, however grudgingly, he knows the value of a good ally and always keeps his lieutenant nearby, even encouraging rumors that the two are paramours to hide the obsessive preparations the pair consider.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

