# Galazeth Prismari

**description**: The dragon Galazeth Prismari embodies the flow of magic from inspiration into artistic expression, whether through physical form or another sensory medium. His magic draws on primal energy—such as flame, lightning, and the tides—and weaves them into spectacles both beautiful and deadly. Galazeth founded Prismari College to ensure that the study of magic wouldn’t ever be relegated to pure practicality. His teachings emphasize that magic’s beauty must contribute to unfolding culture and personal emotional growth. Galazeth views dynamic expression and precise perfection as necessarily competing forces, both within individuals and the world at large. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Galazeth fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. Galazeth makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (1d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) lightning damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d6 + 8) slashing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is knocked prone. Dancing Elements Breath (Recharge 5–6). Galazeth exhales a blast of flames and ice in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, gaining no benefit from cover (other than total cover) and taking 38 (7d10) fire damage and 38 (7d10) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. Galazeth casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 23): 1/day each: control water , gust of wind , wall of stone Legendary Actions Galazeth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Galazeth regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Claw. Galazeth makes one Claw attack. Lightning Flash (Costs 2 Actions). Galazeth moves up to half his flying speed without provoking opportunity attacks. When he passes within 15 feet of a creature during this move, that creature must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) lightning damage. A creature can take this damage no more than once during the move. Flowing Creation (Costs 3 Actions). Galazeth magically summons 1d4 art elemental mascots in unoccupied spaces he can see within 60 feet of himself. The art elementals obey his commands and take their turns immediately after his. Any creature, other than an art elemental, takes 5 (1d10) cold, fire, or lightning damage (Galazeth’s choice) if it ends its turn within 5 feet of one or more of these elementals. When one of these elementals drops to 0 hit points, Galazeth can fly up to 20 feet without provoking opportunity attacks. These elementals disappear after 10 minutes, when Galazeth dies, or when he uses this action again.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon (Sorcerer)
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 12501
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Strixhaven A Curriculum of Chaos

