# Galvanized Prowler

**description**: A chimeric creation of beasts and bones, galvanized prowlers were once the epitome of Scion technology, a defensive bastion against the Scourge’s onslaught. Corrupted by the eldritch components from which they were crafted, they slaughtered their masters and joined the ranks of those they once hunted. Storm Hunter. Leaping between rooftops, galvaznied prowlers are as avid storm chasers as they are predators; they revel in the refreshing tickle of a lightning strike on their skin and use a tempest’s rolling thunder as cover to mask the sound of their pursuit. The howl of a prowler is distinctive, an ear-scrambling cacophony of taut wire scraping over rusted bones. To hear such a noise is a clear warning to remain indoors, with doors barred and windows shuttered, lest it is death you seek. Origin. In their efforts to build an arsenal of creatures with which to defend Luyarnha, the Scions explored the magic of chimerification. With threads of tin, these scientists stitched components harvested from eldritch corpses to the bodies of criminals and, with a burst of lightning, fused the rotting mass into a weak-willed and easily manipulable creature. But their weak will and eldritch blood made them susceptible to the influence of the Great Ones, who soon found new foot soldiers to add to their chaotic horde. Traits Magic Weapons. The prowler's weapon attacks are magical. Lightning Absorption. Whenever the prowler is subjected to lightning damage, it takes no damage. Instead, it regains hit points equal to half the damage dealt and can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see and make one claw attack. Lightning Reflexes. The prowler always takes its turn first in initiative order. Bonus Actions Rampage. If the prowler reduced a creature to 0 hit points with a melee attack this turn, it moves up to half its speed and make a claw attack. Call of the Storm (1/Day). The prowler howls as a bonus action, summoning a storm cloud above itself that it can direct, as per the call lightning spell (DC 16). In addition, it can use a bonus action on each of its turns while concentrating on the spell to target itself with a bolt of lightning. Actions Multiattack. The prowler makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) lightning damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) lightning damage. Lightning Nova (Recharge 5-6). The prowler unleashes electricity with an explosive scream. Each creature within 20 feet of the prowler must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 28 (8d6) lightning damage and can’t use reactions or bonus actions until the end of the prowler's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and suffers no additional effects. A creature that fails this save by 5 or more is also stunned until the end of the prowler's next turn. Reactions Thunderous Revival (1/Day). When the prowler is reduced to 0 hit points, it emits a thunderous howl, instantly regaining 33 (6d10) hit points. Each creature within 10 feet of the prowler must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) thunder damage and being knock prone on a failed saving throw, or taking half as much damage and not being knock prone on a successful one. A creature that fails this save by 5 or more is also stunned until the end of the prowler's next turn. Legendary Actions The prowler can take 1 legendary action, choosing the option below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The prowler regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Leap. The prowler jumps a number of feet up to its speed and lands on its feet in a space that can contain one or more other creatures. Each of those creatures must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creatures takes 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage and 14 (4d6) lightning damage and is knocked prone . On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage, isn't knocked prone, and is pushed 5 feet into an unoccupied space of the creature's choice. If no unoccupied space is within range, the creature instead falls prone in the prowler's space.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: beast and monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

