# Gar Shatterkeel

**description**: Gar Shatterkeel is the water prophet of Elemental Evil and the dour leader of the Crushing Wave cult. He is embittered by a life of suffering at the hands of others. Pirates killed his family when he was young, he was forced into servitude aboard a merchant ship, and then another band of pirates left him to die at sea, where he lost his arm to a shark. Gar sees the elemental power of water as the only thing of value in his life and has gathered others who feel as he does. Gar bears the elemental weapon Drown . His missing arm has been replaced by an artificial limb in the shape of a crab’s claw. As the leader of Olhydra’s cult, he wields her innate magic. Other Crushing Wave cultists sense her power in him and follow him out of fear. In the Water Node When it becomes clear that the Temple of the Crushing Wave is no longer secure, Gar retreats to the Plunging Torrents, the water node. Within this node, Gar gains one additional use of his Legendary Resistance trait. Lair Actions If Gar is in the water node while Olhydra isn’t, he can take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Gar uses a lair action to use his Multiattack or cast one of his spells, up to 3rd level, without using components or a spell slot. He can’t cast the same spell two rounds in a row, but he can continue to concentrate on a spell he previously cast using a lair action. He can take no other lair actions while concentrating on a spell cast as a lair action. His favorite use of this capability is casting inflict wounds or call lightning . If Gar casts cure wounds using this lair action, he regains the maximum number of hit points from the spell (28). Crushing Wave Cultists The Cult of the Crushing Wave venerates the element of water as a force of destruction and evil. Only fools or lunatics worship the idea of destruction, and many of the Crushing Wave cultists can be described as such. Others are more calculating and deliberate in their evil, and see the power of Elemental Evil as a tool by which they can sweep away the existing order of things and make themselves rulers over all. While the Crushing Wave cultists take in many people who are bitter, lost, or mad, they also seek alliances with evil or destructive sea creatures. They perform rites designed to sink ships, cause terrible floods, or summon destructive rainstorms, seeking to make all who live nearby bow to the power of elemental water. Cult lairs usually feature great pools or lakes, where devotees use water-breathing magic to immerse themselves in the element they worship. Crushing Wave cultists embrace a philosophy of elusiveness, patience, and opportunism. They are quick to retreat when challenged, but soon return to strike again. They admire the patience and endurance of the Black Earth cult, but despise the Cult of the Eternal Flame. They see the followers of elemental fire as reckless and short-tempered. Traits Amphibious. Gar can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If Gar fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Spellcasting. Gar is a 9th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following druid spells prepared (an asterisked spell is from appendix B): Cantrips (at will): mending, resistance, shape water* 1st level (4 slots): create or destroy water, cure wounds, fog cloud, thunderwave 2nd level (3 slots): darkvision, hold person, protection from poison 3rd level (3 slots): call lightning, sleet storm, tidal wave* 4th level (3 slots): control water, ice storm 5th level (1 slot): scrying Water Walk. Gar can stand and move on liquid surfaces as if they were solid ground. Watery Fall. When Gar drops to 0 hit points, his body collapses into a pool of inky water that rapidly disperses. Anything he was wearing or carrying is left behind. Actions Multiattack. Gar makes two melee attacks, one with his claw and one with Drown. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 9 (2d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 13). Until the grapple ends, Gar can’t attack other creatures with his claw. Drown. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) cold damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 9 (13 with lair actions)

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

