# Garenyar Miis, Shadow Cult Leader

**description**: Leader of a cult devoted to shadow magic, Garenyar Miis has made a pact with a powerful shadow creature in return for a wealth of power. In his position as the cult’s leader, he conducts unholy rituals to further his might and it is not uncommon for cultists who displease him to mysteriously vanish following these rituals. Appearance. Garenyar is a tall, pale elf with sunken purple eyes and dark brown curly hair. He dresses in a cloak of deep indigo with silver accents, studded leather armor, and black pants. Long daggers rest at his hips. Personality. Garenyar is motivated by power, and seeks to use the cult to further expand his ever growing wealth of knowledge and unnatural abilities. His officers both fear and need him, afraid of what he might become, yet ever hungry for a larger sliver of his power. Plot Hooks A Patron Rises. Garenyar is well on his way to gaining immortality through nefarious shadow magic, and has promised his officers power equivalent to a warlock's pact once he succeeds. All he needs is to offer up enough souls to his own mysterious benefactor. From the Shadows. The cult has found an ancient artifact from which Garenyar plans to summon an otherworldly terror. If they aren't stopped, the cult will unleash shadowy creatures from another plane on the city in which they reside. Bring Back the Sun. The cult of shadows has cast a lair spell (e.g. haunting spirits*), blotting out the sun and giving them eternal shadow in which their powers are augmented. The party must destroy the ritual's focus to weaken the cult's hold on the local area. Tactics Garenyar is confident in his abilities, and toys with his opponents, trying to keep them impaired with his Shadowtouched ability to prevent them from becoming any real threat. His Gift of the Shadows trait makes him skilled at guiding the course of the battle in his favor, providing him an escape should he need it. His Shadowy Riposte also allows him to turn fights into a game of mobility, teleporting to distant opponents to get to a back line or escape beyond the range of more immediate threats. Traits Supernatural Reflexes. Garenyar has 3 reactions. Absorb Shadows. Whenever Garenyar would take necrotic damage, he instead regains that many hit points. Shadowtouched. Garenyar’s weapons are tainted by shadowmagic, and infuse any living being they touch with its power. On a hit with one of his weapons that deals damage, his target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take an additional 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, "Sapped", for 2 rounds. While Injured in this way, a creature has its Strength and Dexterity scores reduced by 1. On a successful save a creature takes half damage and is not injured. The duration of the Injury resets every time a new hit is applied. Additionally, any weapon he throws returns to his hand after the attack is resolved. Supernatural Healing. Garenyar regains 10 hit points at the start of each of his turns unless he has taken radiant damage since the end of his last turn. Shadowy Step (recharge 5-6). Garenyar can teleport up to 30 ft. rather than move on his turn. Gift of the Shadows. At the start of each of his turns, Garenyar uses one of his Special Actions. He can’t use an action used on his previous turn. Garenyar can use these actions even if he is incapacitated (but not unconscious). Special Actions Skillful defense. Garenyar gains +1 AC each time an attack hits him until the end of his next turn. Throw off. Garenyar flings away attackers with a pulse of dark energy. Each creature in a 15’ radius centered on Garenyar must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 14 (4d6) necrotic damage, be knocked back 15 ft., and fall prone. On a successful saving throw, a creature takes half damage, is not knocked back, and does not fall prone. Drag close. Garenyar pulls in all nearby creatures and objects like a black hole, and the air tears the flesh of physical beings around him. All creatures and unsecured objects within 40’ of Garenyar must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be pulled 10 ft. toward him and take 14 (4d6) force damage. A successful saving throw halves the damage and pull distance. Actions Longknife. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 10/20 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6+5) slashing or piercing damage, and the target is affected by Garenyar’s Shadowtouched trait. Command Shadow. Garenyar reaches out and saps the strength from a creature's spirit, bringing it closer to the shadow realm and closer to his control. One creature Garenyar can see within 30 ft. must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d6+4) necrotic damage and have its maximum hit points reduced by half the damage taken until it finishes a long rest. On a successful save the creature takes half damage. If this ability reduces a creature to 0 maximum hit points, the creature dies, granting Garenyar 50 temporary hit points. Reactions Shadowy Riposte. When Garenyar is missed by an attack made or succeeds on a saving throw against a spell cast from within 120 ft., Garenyar can teleport behind the attacker or spell caster and make a Longknife attack against them with advantage. If this would take Garenyar out of the area of a spell's effect, Garenyar avoids all effects of the spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

