# Gastrobolus

**description**: A gastrobolus is a wretched devil that is normally found in infernal sewers, dungeons, and blood-soaked battlefields. It looks like a bloated, single-horned humanoid with the lower body of a disgusting giant snail. Poisonous spines protrude from its sides, and its skin and outer shell is coated with a corrosive, sticky slime. Fiendish Cleaners. The gastrobolus is sometimes called the custodian of the Nine Hells. It sweeps, scavenges, and clears the floors and grounds of organic materials. Incapacitating Weapons. In combat, the gastrobolus excretes and throws acid globs at its targets. The acid globs are caustic and sticky, burning and restraining a victim hit by it. If a target is within melee range, the gastrobolus uses its spines to impale and inject its target with paralyzing venom. Once its prey has been rendered helpless, the gastrobolus opens its abhorrent central maw, which is located at the lower front side of the devil, and then swallows the creature whole. The victim is then deposited into its acid vat-like abdomen to be consumed completely. Traits Devil Spines. A creature that touches the gastrobolus or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it gets pricked by a spine and takes 7 (2d6) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned. While poisoned, the creature is paralyzed. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the gastrobolus's darkvision. Magic Resistance. The gastrobolus has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The gastrobolus makes two Spine attacks or two Acid Glob attacks. It can use Swallow in place of one of these attacks. Spine. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned. While poisoned, the creature is paralyzed. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Acid Glob. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) acid damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be restrained. While restrained, a creature takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of the gastrobolus's turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 17 Strength check, escaping from the acid glob on a success. The effect ends if the acid glob is destroyed. The acid glob has AC 10, 5 hit points and immunity to acid, poison, and psychic damage. The gastrobolus is immune to its acid globs. Swallow. The gastrobolus swallows an incapacitated Large or smaller creature. A swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the gastrobolus, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the gastrobolus's turns. If the gastrobolus takes 20 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the gastrobolus must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 5 feet of the gastrobolus. If the gastrobolus dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone. Teleport. The gastrobolus magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

