# Gath

**description**: Gath: A Divine Lich The default lich in the Monster Manual is presented as an arcane spellcaster, but there is certainly a divine path to lichdom. The people of the north know about Lady Illmarrow, but the Brelish tell stories of Gath. In life, Hogar Gath was the high priest of the Sovereign Host, infamous for his love of luxuries. After his death, it was revealed that Gath had also been leading a cult of the Keeper in lower Sharn … and that he was still leading it. Champions of the Silver Flame rallied and destroyed the undead priest. But even after his defeat, thieves who sought to pillage his “mausoleum”—effectively a mansion he’d built in Sharn’s City of the Dead—rarely returned. Typically this was attributed to the deadly wards and traps, the finest and most expensive House Kundarak could provide. But stories began to circulate that Gath himself had risen again and still dwelled in the mausoleum … and so he had. This pattern continued for centuries. Once, he was revealed to be behind a new criminal organization that was challenging the Boromar Clan. Another time, he was exposed as the force behind a smuggling ring being run out of the Pavilion of the Host itself. Sometimes he’s destroyed, sometimes he flees; whatever happens, he always returns eventually. The typical lich must be a master of arcane science, and most are consumed by their obsession with eldritch knowledge. Divine liches are rarer and more unique. Gath didn’t become a lich by accident. He prepared for it, which is one reason his mausoleum was so richly appointed and heavily secured. And those preparations required him to perform sacrifices that were both horrific and expensive. His love of luxuries is just a surface manifestation of his absolute and relentless greed, which is ultimately what makes him such an effective servant of the Keeper. Where the arcane lich is sustained by will, in many ways Gath is sustained by sheer greed—by the desire to expand his hoard, to have the finest things. In many ways, he's more akin to the stereotypical fantasy dragon than is any dragon of Argonnessen. Gath doesn’t care about conquest and has no inherent desire to kill others: but he'll do anything to satisfy his greed, and he’ll never be satisfied with what he has. Gath also continues to serve as a Talon of the Keeper, training new priests and serving as an intermediary for those who would bargain with the Sovereign of Death and Decay. Adventurers could be surprised to find that the mysterious patron who funded their expedition now wants them to deliver the treasure they recovered to the City of the Dead. He's absolutely evil, but his schemes are always driven by greed and might not actually pose a threat to the world at large … and as a bonus, he pays his agents very well. Gath's Statistics Gath uses the lich stat block, but replaces his spell list with the following spells (or other spells from the cleric spell list): Cantrips (at will): guidance, thaumaturgy, toll the dead XGE 1st level (4 slots): bane, command, detect magic, inflict wounds 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, locate object, mirror image, silence 3rd level (3 slots): animate dead, bestow curse, dispel magic, spirit guardians 4th level (3 slots): dimension door, secret chest 5th level (3 slots): dominate person, scrying 6th level (1 slot): harm, soul cage XGE 7th level (1 slot): fire storm, sequester 8th level (1 slot): antimagic field, earthquake 9th level (1 slot): true resurrection Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If the lich fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rejuvenation. If it has a phylactery, a destroyed lich gains a new body in 1d10 days, regaining all its hit points and becoming active again. The new body appears within 5 feet of the phylactery. Turn Resistance. The lich has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead. Spellcasting. The lich is an 18th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). The lich has the following spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): guidance, thaumaturgy, toll the dead XGE 1st level (4 slots): bane, command, detect magic, inflict wounds 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, locate object, mirror image, silence 3rd level (3 slots): animate dead, bestow curse, dispel magic, spirit guardians 4th level (3 slots): dimension door, secret chest 5th level (3 slots): dominate person, scrying 6th level (1 slot): harm, soul cage XGE 7th level (1 slot): fire storm, sequester 8th level (1 slot): antimagic field, earthquake 9th level (1 slot): true resurrection Actions Paralyzing Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (3d6) cold damage. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success Ray of Frost. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (4d8) cold damage. The target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the evoker's next turn Melf's Acid Arrow. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 90 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (4d4) acid damage. The target takes 6 (2d4) acid damage at the end of its turn On a miss, the arrow splashes the target for half as much of the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn. Legendary Actions Gath can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Gath regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Cantrip. The lich casts a cantrip. Paralyzing Touch (Costs 2 Actions). The lich uses its Paralyzing Touch. Frightening Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). The lich fixes its gaze on one creature it can see within 10 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or become frightened for 1 minute. The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the lich's gaze for the next 24 hours. Disrupt Life (Costs 3 Actions). Each non-undead creature within 20 feet of the lich must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 21 (6d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Evil
- Expansion: 21558
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

