# Gatorfolk Chieftain

**description**: Gatorfolk Gatorfolk are cruel and savage 8-feet tall reptilian humanoids with an osteodermic hide. Their heads, much like an alligator's, feature a U-shaped snout filled with serrated teeth. Small, beady yellow eyes sit on each side, covered in a transparent protective liquid layer that allows them to see even the slightest movements underwater. Well-Defended Lair. The brutish gatorfolk possess limited intelligence but speak Draconic and broken bits of Common. They live in a tribal-like hierarchy, led by a chieftain chosen from the strongest of the tribe. Their camp features simple thatched huts and thick wooden bridges built on swamps, marshes, and shallow parts of rivers. Snares, pits, and spear traps are littered around their territory to deter intruders and catch the occasional meal. Alligators and crocodiles, which the gatorfolk treat as pets, infest the waters around their homes. Rapacious Raiders. Gatorfolk usually hunt within their territory, lying submerged underwater in river banks near animal trails and roads. If food is scarce, they will form hunting parties and raid nearby humanoid settlements. They will eat almost anything that has meat but particularly favor the taste of bullywug, humans, and livestock. Reptilian Allies. Gatorfolk worship Sess'innek, who they believe is the first true gatorfolk that spawned their race before it became a demon lord. Gatorfolk may build alliances with lizardfolk, which they see as their kin. However, they bully and almost treat them as slaves. Gatorfolk have been known to work with black dragons, crocosphinxes, dracotaurs, evil naga, and yuan-ti, serving them as guards and mercenaries. Traits Hold Breath. The gatorfolk can hold its breath for 15 minutes. Marshal Allies. Unless the gatorfolk is incapacitated, it and creatures of its choice within 30 feet of it have advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Actions Multiattack. The gatorfolk makes two melee attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Spiked Greatclub or Tail. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Spiked Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 2 (1d4) piercing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. Rallying Cry (1/Day). Each creature of the gatorfolk's choice that is within 30 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by Rallying Cry gains 9 (2d8) temporary hit points and advantage on saving throws until the start of the gatorfolk's next turn. The gatorfolk can then make one attack as a bonus action. Reactions Tail Swipe. When an enemy the gatorfolk can see moves within 10 feet of the gatorfolk, the gatorfolk can make one Tail attack against that enemy. Legendary Actions The gatorfolk can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The gatorfolk regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The gatorfolk moves up to half its speed. Bite. The gatorfolk makes a Bite attack. Intimidate Foe. The gatorfolk targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the gatorfolk, it must make a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the gatorfolk until the end of the gatorfolk's next turn. Club (Costs 2 Actions). The gatorfolk makes a Spiked Greatclub attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Humanoid (Gatorfolk)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

