# Gatorfolk Claw of Sess'innek

**description**: Gatorfolk Gatorfolk are cruel and savage 8-feet tall reptilian humanoids with an osteodermic hide. Their heads, much like an alligator's, feature a U-shaped snout filled with serrated teeth. Small, beady yellow eyes sit on each side, covered in a transparent protective liquid layer that allows them to see even the slightest movements underwater. Well-Defended Lair. The brutish gatorfolk possess limited intelligence but speak Draconic and broken bits of Common. They live in a tribal-like hierarchy, led by a chieftain chosen from the strongest of the tribe. Their camp features simple thatched huts and thick wooden bridges built on swamps, marshes, and shallow parts of rivers. Snares, pits, and spear traps are littered around their territory to deter intruders and catch the occasional meal. Alligators and crocodiles, which the gatorfolk treat as pets, infest the waters around their homes. Rapacious Raiders. Gatorfolk usually hunt within their territory, lying submerged underwater in river banks near animal trails and roads. If food is scarce, they will form hunting parties and raid nearby humanoid settlements. They will eat almost anything that has meat but particularly favor the taste of bullywug, humans, and livestock. Reptilian Allies. Gatorfolk worship Sess'innek, who they believe is the first true gatorfolk that spawned their race before it became a demon lord. Gatorfolk may build alliances with lizardfolk, which they see as their kin. However, they bully and almost treat them as slaves. Gatorfolk have been known to work with black dragons, crocosphinxes, dracotaurs, evil naga, and yuan-ti, serving them as guards and mercenaries. Traits Brave. The gatorfolk has advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Hold Breath. The gatorfolk can hold its breath for 15 minutes. Actions Multiattack. The gatorfolk makes two melee attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Greatsword or Tail. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. Bellow (Recharge 5-6). The gatorfolk emits a horrific bellow. Each creature within 60 feet of the gatorfolk and able to hear the Gatorfolk must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the gatorfolk for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The gatorfolk can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The gatorfolk regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The gatorfolk moves up to half its speed. Bite. The gatorfolk makes a Bite attack. Greatsword (Costs 2 Actions). The gatorfolk makes a Greatsword attack. Staggering Strike (Costs 3 Actions). The gatorfolk makes a melee or ranged weapon attack. If the attack hits, the creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or it takes an extra 14 (4d6) weapon damage, has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and can’t take reactions, until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Humanoid (Gatorfolk)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

