# Gelatinooze

**description**: You can pet it. But I’d vear gloves. And not your favourite, fancy-pants vons either; you never know vhen its goink to start oozink. — Humperdink, No Longer Has Gloves Type : Ooze Creature Component : Any polyhedrooze Bonus Tamer Improvement : Growth I and +2 Hit Dice A relatively recent creation, the gelatinous polyhedrooze builds on its forebears’ mere six sides. Able to more selectively dissolve the objects it engulfs, this companion makes use of the arms and armour found lying around dungeons to form impenetrable barriers of overlapping shields and phalanx-like spears. If any of the gelatinooze’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the gelatinooze’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the gelatinooze’s Strength modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the gelatinooze the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Growth I Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Passive (companion) The gelatinooze’s size increases to Small, it becomes shaped like a d6, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its pseudopod attack increases to a d6 . The gelatinooze gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Reactive Mutations Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the gelatinooze activates its immune system for the next minute . Immediately after the gelatinooze next takes damage, it gains resistance to that damage type for 1 minute . After the gelatinooze uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Engulf Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the gelatinooze can move up to its speed. While doing so, it can enter the space of creatures smaller than its size. Whenever the gelatinooze enters a creature’s space, the creature must make a Dexterity saving throw . On a successful save, the creature can choose to be pushed 5 feet back or to the side of the gelatinooze. A creature that chooses not to be pushed suffers the consequences of a failed saving throw. On a failed save, the gelatinooze enters the creature’s space, stops moving and engulfs the creature, which takes 7 ( 2d6 ) acid damage. The engulfed creature can’t breathe, is restrained , and takes 7 ( 2d6 ) acid damage at the start of each of the gelatinooze’s turns. When the gelatinooze moves, the engulfed creature moves with it. The gelatinooze can have only one creature engulfed at a time. An engulfed creature can try to escape by taking an action to make a Strength check against the gelatinooze’s save DC . On a success, the creature escapes and enters a space of its choice within 5 feet of the gelatinooze. Growth II Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type : Passive (companion) The gelatinooze’s size increases to Medium, it becomes shaped like a d8, and its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage dice of its pseudopod and spit attacks increase from a d6 to a d8 , and its Engulf action’s damage increases to 10 ( 3d6 ). Multiattack Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the gelatinooze can make two pseudopod attacks. Spit Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) The gelatinooze gains a ranged weapon attack: Spit. The damage die of the spit attack increases with the specified die size in the gelatinooze’s Growth improvements. Spit. Ranged Weapon Attack: Str or Dex modifier + PB to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 2d6 + Str or Dex modifier acid damage. Phalanx Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action while the gelatinooze is not in its Turtle form, it can brace itself in place, reducing its speed to 0 feet and presenting a phalanx of spiky things it has found. A creature that hits the gelatinooze with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 2d6 piercing damage. As a bonus action, the gelatinooze can return to normal, regaining its normal speed. Turtle Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action while the gelatinooze is not in its Phalanx form, it can hunker in place, reducing its speed to 0 feet and presenting a wall of metal and wood on one of its faces. Choose a direction and project a cone as if casting a cone-shaped spell with infinite length; the gelatinooze gains a +10 bonus to AC against all attacks originating from within that cone. As a bonus action, the gelatinooze can return to normal, regaining its speed and its normal AC. Growth III Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer, Growth II Type : Passive (companion) The gelatinooze’s size increases to Large, it becomes shaped like a d10, and its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage dice of its pseudopod and spit attacks increase from a d8 to a d10 , and its Engulf action’s damage increases to 14 ( 4d6 ). This growth improvement ignores the normal maximum companion size for a tamer. Growth IV Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Growth III Type : Passive (companion) The gelatinooze’s size increases to Huge, it becomes shaped like a d12, and its Hit Die size increases to a d12 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage dice of its pseudopod and spit attacks increase from a d10 to a d12 , and its Engulf action’s damage increases to 17 ( 5d6 ). This growth improvement ignores the normal maximum companion size for a tamer. Sanctuary Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Engulf Type : Active (action) As an action, the gelatinooze can move into the space of an object or willing creature that is smaller than it and encapsulate it within its body. The object or creature can be seen but has total cover. No energy or spell effects that either originate from or target the encapsulated object or creature can pass through the gelatinooze. The gelatinooze naturally diffuses air to the object or creature within it, allowing it to breathe. The gelatinooze can contain up to 1 creature of a size smaller than it, whether it has it engulfed (using the Engulf action) or encapsulated using this trait. An encapsulated creature can exit the polyhedrooze by expending 2 feet of movement for each foot of gelatinooze that it passes through. As a bonus action, the gelatinooze can expel the object or creature into an adjacent, unoccupied space of the gelatinooze’s choice. Erupt Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer, Phalanx or Turtle Type : Active (action) As an action, the gelatinooze can fire all the shrapnel, armour, and weapons it has accumulated in its body. It can choose to focus this in a 60-foot cone or erupt in all directions in a 20-foot-radius sphere centred on itself. Each creature in the area other than the gelatinooze must make a Dexterity saving throw . A creature takes 14 ( 4d6 ) bludgeoning damage, 14 ( 4d6 ) piercing damage, 14 ( 4d6 ) slashing damage, and 14 (4 d6 ) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After the gelatinooze uses this action, it can’t use its Erupt, Phalanx, or Turtle actions until it spends 1 hour absorbing rocks, metal, and other bric-a-brac.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: ooze
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

