# Geryon

**description**: A rather peculiar giant, recognizable due to his three heads and strange body which also has three sets of arms. Some stories even say that he is a single creature with three bodies instead. He was born from the union of the ocean nymph Callirrhoe and Chrysaor, son of Poseidon and the Gorgon Medusa. Once upon a time he was a peaceful herdsman living in the island of Erytheia, which was known as the “Red Isle”, alongside his companion dog Orthus. However, the arrival of a son of Zeus ended that path. King Eurystheus gave Heracles his tenth labor, bringing him the cattle of the giant Geryon. An arduous trip that took him through a massive desert under a scorching sun. The heat was so unbearable that he had shot an arrow towards Helios, the solar deity of the time. Helios was amused and chose to help the demigod reach his destination. Upon reaching Erytheia, Heracles was attacked by Orthus, who was promptly killed. Eurytion, Geryon’s fellow herdman, was next to follow before Geryon grew aware of the violence. Arming himself for battle he ran out, only to be met by a hydra blood-tipped arrow to his central skull. Thus died Geryon. Returned from the Grave. Much like other powerful monsters, Geryon escaped the clutches of the afterlife. Whether by dark machinations and rotten magic or by the kindness of a higher power is unknown. Seeking Retribution. Unable to live his new life in peace, Geryon hounds followers of Heracles, who ascended to godhood while Geryon was dead. If they do not renounce their faith for the mortal-turned-god, he seeks to make an example of them. "The tale of the Giant and his hound is but one of the many tragedies that the heroes of old brought. I wouldn't be surprised if Nemesis granted them an opportunity for payback." -Markos, King of a Seaside Kingdom Giants Giants are rather plentiful amongst Greek monsters. Born most often from divine blood, although monstrous origins are not unheard of, they have a unique place in the world. Sometimes destructive and sometimes dutiful servants of the order of the world. Traits Fluid Body. Geryon has two additional reactions. These reactions can only be used to perform attacks of opportunity. Magic Weapons. Geryon's weapon attacks are magical. Multiple Heads. Geryon has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. Triple Shields. Geryon carries three shields, each of which is accounted for in his AC. Geryon must stow or drop one of his shields to hurl rocks. Vigilant. Geryon can't be surprised. Actions Multiattack. Geryon makes three spear attacks or two rock attacks. Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 24 (4d8 + 6) piercing damage. Spear (While Raging). Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d8 + 10) piercing damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 60/240ft., one target. Hit: 17 (4d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Bonus Actions Rage Against the Hero (Recharges after a short or long rest). Geryon can enter a rage at the start of his turn. The rage lasts for 1 minute or until Geryon is incapacitated. While raging, Geryon gains the following benefits: Geryon has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. When he makes a melee weapon attack, Geryon gains a +4 bonus to the damage roll. Geryon has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. All attacks deal an additional 14 (4d6) damage to followers or descendants of Heracles.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: giant
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

