# Ghizmer

**description**: Ghizmer are malignant pests that originate in the asteroid fields like the Amrita Asteroid Belt in the Aethera system, as well as transitive planes like the fey realms and the Shadow Plane. Ghizmers delight in causing havoc and use their power over aetherite to cause strange and dangerous mishaps in aetherships and aethertech so that the owners abandon them—allowing the gremlins to scrap them. Most settlements have standing bounties for ghizmer gremlins. A typical ghizmer stands just over 1 foot tall and weighs 10 pounds. Enticed by Aetherite. Though they originate in the fey realms, ghizmer thrive in areas suffused with aetherite radiation and similarly potent magical minerals, despite the lack of aetherite to be found on any plane other than the Material. These malicious and destructive creatures long to venture to the Material Plane, seeking out sources of aetherite in both raw and refined forms to bask in its otherworldly glow. See Appendix 2: Aetherite for more details on this radioactive material. Stealthy Troublemakers. Though not particularly cunning, ghizmer are remarkably sneaky and tend to lie in wait, wreaking havoc with aethertech systems in their immediate vicinity while waiting for an opportunity to bask in aetherite radiation. Unfortunately, these dimwitted creatures often cause aethership crashes that claim their own lives as they dismantle, disable, and otherwise destroy the ship’s intricate components. Rapid Infestations. Ghizmer reproduce asexually every six to eight months, growing a bulbous fluid-filled sac on their back that contains anywhere between 8 to 15 ghizmer young. These progeny erupt from the ghizmer’s birthing sack after one week of gestation and mature to adulthood within two weeks. Ghizmer that do not die from hunting, predation, or their own stupidity can live upwards of eighty years. However, mortality rates among ghizmer are incredibly high and few ever live to see such an old age. Due to their prodigious birth rate, ghizmer can quickly infect and overwhelm a location if their population is not controlled. Aliens in the Fey Realms. In the fey realms ghizmer gremlins are regarded much as they are on the Material, as nuisances and dangerous pests. Even among fey-kind, ghizmer are ostracized for their unpredictable nature and eagerness to destroy. Though on the Evermorn the capacity of a ghizmer for mayhem is notably limited, due to the lack of aetherite and aethertech native to the plane. Only when ghizmer join forces with other gremlins and malicious fey, do their destructive antics pose a reasonable threat to Evermorn inhabitants. Aetherite Seekers. Ghizmer find their way to the Material by means of fissures between the planes leading to the fey realms, including the world of Kir-Sharaat and its Darkwild, where they are a nuisance to the native zahajin populations and largely go unnoticed by erahthi. The smaller number of ghizmer that migrate to the asteroid belts and the moons of gas giants do so by means of planar fissures in high atmosphere or low orbit, infiltrating passing ships or appearing on asteroids clinging to aetherite radiation to survive in the extreme vacuum of space. No matter their origin, a ghizmer’s ultimate goal is always the nearest and largest abundance of aetherite. Aetherite Sustenance. Whenever exposed to aetherite radiation (including bright light from aetherite-infused stars like Aethera), a ghizmer does not need to eat, drink, or breathe. In systems lacking aetherite, you can substitute other radioactive material to attract their attention.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

