# Ghost Knight

**description**: When a knight has fallen before it was able to fulfill its lifelong quest or was cursed after performing an evil deed, it may rise as a ghost. Unfortunately, these poor souls often either become insane or lose memories of their past life after they transition to undeath. Ghosts Unusual Nature. The ghost doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Ethereal Sight. The ghost can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa. Incorporeal Movement. The ghost can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Actions Multiattack. The ghost makes two Withering Blade attacks. Withering Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (2d6) slashing damage plus 17 (4d6 + 3) necrotic damage. Etherealness. The ghost enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can't affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Horrifying Visage. Each non-Undead creature within 60 feet of the ghost that can see it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. If the save fails by 5 or more, the target also ages 1d4 x 10 years. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this ghost's Horrifying Visage for the next 24 hours. The aging effect can be reversed with a greater restoration spell, but only within 24 hours of it occurring. Possession. One humanoid that the ghost can see within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the ghost; the ghost then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The ghost now controls the body but doesn't deprive the target of awareness. The ghost can't be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except ones that turn Undead, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target's statistics, but doesn't gain access to the target's knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the ghost ends it as a bonus action, or the ghost is turned or forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the ghost reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to this ghost's Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends. Reactions Parry. The ghost adds 2 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the knight must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

