# Ghostly Guard

**description**: Many consider the ghostly guards who serve in the halls of the House at the Edge of Time to be unusual as a ghost typically originates as a solitary presence whose transformation into undeath was a highly personalized and unique process. These particular ghosts rose simultaneously from the first kingdom Nyrissa destroyed, and while they have served her for ages, they still carry deep shame for their role in the destruction of all the kingdoms to follow. If using a ghostly guard in an encounter removed from the House at the Edge of Time, you should modify the source of their shame, or simply omit this weakness entirely. Traits Ethereal Sight. The ghostly guard can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when they are on the First World, and vice versa. Evasion. If the ghostly guard is subjected to an effect that allows them to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the ghostly guard instead takes no damage if they succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if they fail. Incorporeal Movement. The ghostly guard can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. They take 5 (1d10) force damage if they end their turn inside an object. Shame. A ghostly guard has disadvantage with all rolls made against elves or those whom it believes are worshippers of Calistria. A character who understands the nature of this shame can attempt to forgive a ghostly guard (requiring an action by the forgiving creature) by speaking to it in a language it understands. The ghostly guard must attempt a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, the ghostly guard has disadvantage with all rolls until the end of its next turn. If it rolls a natural 1 on this saving throw, the ghostly guard fades away as it comes to terms with its death and its soul is released into the afterlife. Actions Multiattack. The ghostly guard makes two melee attacks with their withering touch. Withering Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 31 (7d6+7) necrotic damage. Etherealness. The ghostly guard enters the Ethereal Plane from the First World, or vice versa. They are visible on the First World while they are in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet they can’t affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Horrifying Visage. Each non-undead creature within 60 feet of the ghostly guard that can see them must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. If the save fails by 5 or more, the target also ages 1d4 × 10 years. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the ghostly guard’s Horrifying Visage for the next 24 hours. The aging effect can be reversed with a greater restoration spell, but only within 24 hours of it occurring. Possession (Recharge 6) . One humanoid that the ghostly guard can see within 5 feet of him must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by them; the ghostly guard then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The ghostly guard now controls the body but doesn’t deprive the target of awareness. The ghostly guard can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except ones that turn undead, and they retain their alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. They otherwise use the possessed target’s statistics, but don’t gain access to the target’s knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the ghostly guard ends it as a bonus action, or the ghost is turned or forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the ghostly guard reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to the ghostly guard’s Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

