# Ghourling Shaman

**description**: Ghourlings, also known as beastfolk or goatfolk, are a race of evil and depraved half-bovid humanoids. They have the torso, neck, and arms of a humanoid and the head, groin, legs, and cloven hooves of a feral-looking bovid. They are native to the Lower Planes, but ghourlings also dwell in desolate hilly and mountainous regions of the Material Plane. Bloodthirsty Marauders. Ghourlings are cunning predators that will eat anything that lives within their territory, but prefer the flesh of other humanoids. What makes them very dangerous is their willingness to form organized clans or tribes. They craft simple weapons and armor, train for battle, and plan raids of isolated hamlets and villages. Revolting Stench. Ghourlings are incredibly strong and savage warriors. They fight relentlessly, and often without care for their own safety. Ghourlings have scent glands near their horns, hooves, and hands. These glands secrete an oily substance that have an abhorrent stench that reminds you of a mix of carrion and rotten eggs. The odor is so potently putrid and foul that it can cause nausea. Children of Baphomet. Although it hasn't been proven as a fact, ghourlings are said to be the descendants of an ancient clan of barbaric human cannibals who worshipped and may even have drank from the blood of the demon lord Baphomet. This makes sense as they are often encountered in the company of minotaurs, hags, and demons, filling the role of footsoldiers and shock troopers. Traits Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the ghourling must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the ghourling's Stench for 24 hours. Actions Multiattack . The ghourling makes one Spear attack and one Gore attack. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. If the ghourling moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Hurl Flame. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d8) fire damage. Spellcasting. The ghourling casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: druidcraft, mending, resistance 1/day each: conjure animals (boars, bulls, and goats only), entangle, heat metal, polymorph, wall of stone Rippling Earth (Recharges 5–6). The ghourling causes the earth to suddenly move in a violent, cascading motion in a 30-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature standing on the ground in that line must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 19 (3d12) bludgeoning damage, is pushed up to 10 feet, and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain until cleared. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand. Reactions Boon of Baphomet (2/Day). If a visible ally within 30 feet of the ghourling takes 7 damage or less that would reduce it to 0 hit points, that ally is reduced to 1 hit point instead.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

