# Ghourling War Chief

**description**: Ghourlings, also known as beastfolk or goatfolk, are a race of evil and depraved half-bovid humanoids. They have the torso, neck, and arms of a humanoid and the head, groin, legs, and cloven hooves of a feral-looking bovid. They are native to the Lower Planes, but ghourlings also dwell in desolate hilly and mountainous regions of the Material Plane. Bloodthirsty Marauders. Ghourlings are cunning predators that will eat anything that lives within their territory, but prefer the flesh of other humanoids. What makes them very dangerous is their willingness to form organized clans or tribes. They craft simple weapons and armor, train for battle, and plan raids of isolated hamlets and villages. Revolting Stench. Ghourlings are incredibly strong and savage warriors. They fight relentlessly, and often without care for their own safety. Ghourlings have scent glands near their horns, hooves, and hands. These glands secrete an oily substance that have an abhorrent stench that reminds you of a mix of carrion and rotten eggs. The odor is so potently putrid and foul that it can cause nausea. Children of Baphomet. Although it hasn't been proven as a fact, ghourlings are said to be the descendants of an ancient clan of barbaric human cannibals who worshipped and may even have drank from the blood of the demon lord Baphomet. This makes sense as they are often encountered in the company of minotaurs, hags, and demons, filling the role of footsoldiers and shock troopers. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the ghourling fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the ghourling must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the ghourling's Stench for 24 hours. War Leader. The ghourling's allies that can see and hear the ghourling have advantage on attack rolls while within 20 feet of the ghourling, provided it isn’t frightened or incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The ghourling makes two melee or ranged attacks. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) slashing damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. If the ghourling moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. Bonus Actions Command. The ghourling targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the ghourling, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack or move up to its speed. Legendary Actions The ghourling can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The ghourling regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The ghourling moves up to its speed. Intimidating Bellow. The ghourling emits a menacing bellow. Each non-demon and non-undead creature within 30 feet of the ghourling that can hear the ghourling must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the ghourling's next turn. Gore. The ghourling makes a Gore attack. Greataxe (Costs 2 Actions). The ghourling makes one Greataxe attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

