# Ghourling Warlock

**description**: Ghourlings, also known as beastfolk or goatfolk, are a race of evil and depraved half-bovid humanoids. They have the torso, neck, and arms of a humanoid and the head, groin, legs, and cloven hooves of a feral-looking bovid. They are native to the Lower Planes, but ghourlings also dwell in desolate hilly and mountainous regions of the Material Plane. Bloodthirsty Marauders. Ghourlings are cunning predators that will eat anything that lives within their territory, but prefer the flesh of other humanoids. What makes them very dangerous is their willingness to form organized clans or tribes. They craft simple weapons and armor, train for battle, and plan raids of isolated hamlets and villages. Revolting Stench. Ghourlings are incredibly strong and savage warriors. They fight relentlessly, and often without care for their own safety. Ghourlings have scent glands near their horns, hooves, and hands. These glands secrete an oily substance that have an abhorrent stench that reminds you of a mix of carrion and rotten eggs. The odor is so potently putrid and foul that it can cause nausea. Children of Baphomet. Although it hasn't been proven as a fact, ghourlings are said to be the descendants of an ancient clan of barbaric human cannibals who worshipped and may even have drank from the blood of the demon lord Baphomet. This makes sense as they are often encountered in the company of minotaurs, hags, and demons, filling the role of footsoldiers and shock troopers. Traits Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the ghourling must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the ghourling's Stench for 24 hours. Actions Multiattack. The ghourling makes two Spear attacks. Alternatively, it can use Abyssal Flame twice. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. If the ghourling moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Abyssal Flame. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) fire damage and 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and the target is blinded until the end of the ghourling's next turn. Spellcasting. The ghourling casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation 1/day each (as 5th-level spells): dimension door, fear, maze, mirror image Cone of Abyssal Fire (Recharges 5–6). The ghourling magically emits greenish flames in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) fire damage and 18 (4d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

