# Giant, Hræsvelgr the Corpse Swallower

**description**: The giant stands braced in the midst of powerful wind. With a baleful stare, he shakes his fist and bellows a war cry. The cry becomes an avian shriek, and the giant’s form melts into that of a massive bird whose wings blot out the sky. A giant with divine blood in his veins, Hraesvelgr the Corpse Swallower is powerfully muscled. His skin is a pale bronze, his eyes are violet, and his hair and beard are the color of storm clouds. Roc Form. When he takes his alternate form, Hraesvelgr becomes a tremendous roc, with massive wings that stir the wind across the sky. His eyes remain the same violet and this roc-form feathers match the color of his hair, sparkling with specks of color here and there, like jewels set in steel. Birth of the Wind. Hraesvelgr dwells on the fringe of the world itself. From atop the peak of his home, he creates the wind and sends it across the globe. As befits a creature of such primal power, Hraesvelgr doesn’t take kindly to intruders. He gluts himself on the bodies of fools who test his might in search of the fabled riches in his home. Hraesvelgr’s Lair Hraesvelgr’s lair is a windswept crag of gray stone at the edge of the world. At the highest pinnacle rests a massive cottage hewn from the mountainside. A great nest made from the splintered trunks of immense trees rests on the flat roof of the cottage, and the wind constantly howls. Regional Effects The region containing Hraesvelgr’s lair is warped by the corpse swallower’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Strong windstorms are common within 6 miles of the lair. Giant avian beasts are drawn to the lair and fiercely defend it against intruders. The wind within 10 miles of the lair bears a pungent carrion stench. If Hraesvelgr dies, conditions in the area surrounding the lair return to normal over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Innate Spellcasting: Hraesvelgr’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material or somatic components: At will: feather fall, light 3/day: control weather Keen Sight (Roc Form Only): Hraesvelgr has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Legendary Resistance (3/day): If Hraesvelgr fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Shapechanger: Hraesvelgr can use a bonus action to change into a roc. Any equipment he wears or carries melds into his new form. It keeps its game statistics except as noted. He reverts to his giant form if it is reduced to 0 hit points or when it uses a bonus action to change back. Actions Multiattack: Hraesvelgr makes two attacks. Beak (Roc Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., One target. Hit : 25 (4d8 + 7) Piercing damage. Fist (Giant Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., One target. Hit : 20 (3d8 + 7) Bludgeoning damage. On hit, the target must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the start of Hraesvelgr’s next turn. Talons (Roc Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 21 (4d6 + 7) Slashing damage. On hit, the target is grappled, escape DC 17. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and Hraesvelgr can’t use his talons against another target. Gale Blast (recharge 5-6): Hraesvelgr unleashes a gale-force blast of wind in a line 60 feet long and 10 feet wide. Creatures in the area take 35 (10d6) bludgeoning damage and are pushed 15 feet directly away from Hraesvelgr, or they take half damage and are not pushed with a successful DC 19 Strength saving throw. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Attack: Hraesvelgr makes a fist or talon attack. Move (2 actions): Hraesvelgr moves half his speed. If in roc form, all creatures within 10 feet of Hraesvelgr at the end of this move must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and fall prone. Swallow (3 actions, Roc Form Only): Hraesvelgr makes a bite attack against a creature he has grappled. If he hits, he swallows the creature. A swallowed creature is no longer grappled, but is blinded, restrained, and has advantage against attacks and effects originating from outside Hraesvelgr. A swallowed creature takes 14 (4d6) acid damage at the start of each of Hraesvelgr’s turns. If Hraesvelgr returns to giant form, or takes 40 damage or more in a single turn from a swallowed creature, he must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which land prone within 10 feet of the giant. If Hraesvelgr dies, swallowed creatures are no longer restrained and can escape the corpse by spending 30 feet of movement, exiting prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: giant (shapechanger, titan)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

