# Giant, Thursir Armorer

**description**: The red-bearded giant wears mismatched metal plates, and it wields a massive battle axe in one hand and a shield in the other. Both match the style of the armor, with various metal plates smelted together. Dwarven skulls carved with runes decorate the giant's belt. Dwarven Hatred. The thursir giants' animosity toward dwarves comes from an ancestral rivalry in the blacksmithing arts. The thursir go out of their way to bring misery to any dwarves in their path. Armorers accomplish this by forging their armor and weapons from those of dwarven warriors they slay. Soul Collectors. Armorers keep the skulls of their greatest dwarven kills on their belts, displayed to intimidate dwarves and to brag to other thursir. The skulls are inscribed with a thursir rune that keeps a portion of the fallen dwarf's soul connected, giving the giant access to a measure of the dwarf's knowledge. Honored Smiths. Armorers are renowned within thursir giant enclaves for the quality of their craftsmanship. Obsessed with repurposing dwarven equipment in a way that is effective yet still clearly dwarven, armorers never become leaders of their communities, as their focus on their work blinds them to the ambitions and happenings of their communities. Forged Forgery. Thursir armorers wear armor that has been forged from dwarven armor and shaped to resemble dwarven armor. Skilled blacksmiths can recognize and exploit this design quirk. When a creature proficient with smith's tools scores a critical hit against the thursir armorer, the armorer's armor breaks, reducing the armorer's Armor Class by 5 until the thursir armorer repairs the armor. If the thursir armorer is critically hit by any creature while its armor is broken, its armor shatters and is destroyed, reducing the armorer's Armor Class to 12. Actions Multiattack. The thursir armorer uses Flinging Smash, if available. It then makes two Battleaxe attacks or one Battleaxe attack and one Shield Bash attack. Battleaxe. Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage, or 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage if used with two hands. Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Flinging Smash (Recharge 5-6). The armorer makes a sweeping strike with its shield. Each creature within 10 feet of the armorer must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 15 feet away from the armorer and knocked prone. Runic Armor (3/Day). The armorer can inscribe the thurs rune on its armor. When a creature hits the armorer with a melee weapon attack while the rune is active, the creature takes 4 (1d8) lightning damage and can't take reactions until the start of its next turn. The rune lasts for 1 minute. Bonus Actions Harness Dwarven Soul. The thursir armorer draws on the soul fragment trapped in one of the dwarven skulls on its belt. The armorer has advantage on ability checks when using smith's tools and on attack rolls using a battleaxe, handaxe, light hammer, or warhammer until the start of its next turn. The armorer carries six skulls on its belt.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

