# Giant, Mountain

**description**: The large hill uncurls into a standing position, revealing itself to be an unbelievably large, craggy creature. Children of the Earth. At the beginning of time, the first creatures to spring forth were the mountain giants, the daughters and sons of Aurgelmir, first of the giants. Where these gargantuan creatures were born, the mountains themselves heaved up to allow their passage. Since those times, the mountain giants have ruled their places of birth, dwelling atop or within the lofty peaks. Progeny Forged in Fire. While not immortal, because even the mountains themselves eventually crumble, the mountain giants are one of the longest-lived creatures known to inhabit the world. Once in its lifetime, whether male or female, a mountain giant feels the call to procreate. It seeks out the nearest active volcano, where it locates a mate with similar yearnings. Their progeny is born soon after, accompanied by spectacular volcanic activity that gives the newborn mountain giant a new home to inhabit and protect. A Giant Among Ants. The mountain giant is so large and inscrutable that it considers smaller races as mere insects, pests to be tolerated until they become too much of a nuisance. Then the mountain giant acts, crushing whole towns and villages as a person might step on an anthill. Even the largest stone giants are little more than pets to a mountain giant. A Mountain Giant's Lair A mountain giant's lair includes all parts of the mountain that the giant calls home, from the large caverns deep within the mountain to the summit, and everywhere in between. The mountain giant is equally comfortable on the icy, snow-capped peaks as it is in the molten center of a volcano. The mountain giant patrols its mountain lair regularly, ensuring that no creature is doing any harm, such as mining its metals, minerals, or gems or congregating in large communities in its plateaus, slopes, or valleys. Dwarven clans are the main pests for the mountain giant—they consider these bearded humanoids as humans might consider termites. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the mountain giant takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the giant can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: The dust, grit, and pebbles in a 20-foot-radius area within 60 feet of the mountain giant erupts in a cloud. The area becomes difficult terrain. A creature in the area must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn. All flying creatures within 120 feet of the mountain giant are pulled to the ground, including those flying by magical means. A creature forced to the ground in this way takes 3 (1d6) force damage for each 10 feet pulled. The creature's speed becomes 0 until the end of its next turn. Regional Effects The region around a mountain giant's home suffers from its presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: Avalanches occur randomly within 5 miles of the lair. The rumbling can be heard at least an hour before the avalanche begins. The resulting avalanche varies in power: from toppling a few trees to destroying a city at the base of the mountain, to diverting the flow of a river in the valley. Hunting becomes harder in the area. The wildlife living within 1 mile of the mountain giant's lair become agitated, giving them advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks. Mining becomes more difficult near a mountain giant's lair. Any who attempt to mine ores, minerals, or gems within 5 miles of the lair find that it takes twice as much time and effort to mine the same amount as elsewhere.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: giant
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

