# Giant Heron

**description**: Herons are among the most Dangerous II ambush hunters, and their long, pointed beaks provide sufficient threat to deter most of their own potential predators. The giant heron may have a harder time blending into its surroundings, but it also hunts much larger prey. Capable of remaining almost perfectly still, these giant birds are typically colored in browns and greens to help avoid detection in the forested swamps where they make their homes. Giant herons are sometimes hunted for their magnificent crest feathers, whose enormous size and vibrant color are a desirable component for certain magical cloaks. Large Predators. Rather than hunting small fish, giant herons typically prey upon both large fish and moderately sized lizards and mammals, including iguanas, foxes, and carp. This, of course, also occasionally extends to humans though typically only as a last resort or when specifically trained to do so. Giant herons attack if startled. Tactics. As giant beasts, giant herons will flee if they feel sufficiently threatened, relying on their flight to escape. When driven to fight, they first attempt to pierce a smaller enemy with their Beak Stab, and then follow with a Toss Back to remove the creature from the fight. They prefer to target enemies with no obvious way to fight back from within. Traits Forest Camouflage. The giant heron has advantage on stealth checks made to remain hidden in forested environments. Keen Eyes. The giant heron has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on vision. Actions Beak Stab. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8+3) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be grappled and gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, "Pierced". While Injured in this way, a creature has disadvantage on Strength and Dexterity checks, and loses 3 (1d6) hit points whenever it takes an action. A creature recovers from this Injury when it is no longer grappled by the heron and regains any number of hit points. Toss Back. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target size Medium or smaller grappled by the heron. Hit: The target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be swallowed by the heron. On a successful saving throw, the target takes 12 (2d8+3) bludgeoning damage and gains the “Pierced” Injury described above if it didn’t have it already. On a failed saving throw, the creature is swallowed by the heron. A swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the heron, and takes 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) acid damage at the start of each of its turns. While restrained in this way, a creature can only make a single attack during its turn regardless of any extra attacks it could normally make, deals half damage, and cannot cast spells that require somatic components. The heron can have one Medium creature or two Small creatures swallowed at once. If the heron becomes Injured, it regurgitates the last creature it swallowed. Creatures outside of the heron can attempt to inflict a special Injury of Deadly IIII severity to open a hole for creatures to escape through. Once this Injury has been delivered, creatures swallowed by the heron are no longer restrained.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

