# Giant Aurumvorax

**description**: Aurumvorax (Golden Gorger) The aurumvorax, also commonly known as the golden gorger, is a curious-looking creature that looks like a cross between a badger and a wolverine and is often quickly dismissed as a harmless animal at first glance. The common variety measures only 3 feet in length and half of that in height. Its body, which is covered in a shaggy hide of golden-orange colored fur, is densely packed with muscle and can weigh as much as 500 pounds. It has eight stubby legs that all end in steel-like copper-colored claws. Razor-sharp teeth fill its powerful jaws. Despite its non-threatening size and the enticing value of its precious hide, those familiar with the creature know better than to earn its ire and always give it a wide berth. Many a group of adventurers have been mercilessly torn to pieces thinking the aurumvorax an easy kill. Golden Gorger. The aurumvorax is a carnivore that supplements its diet with precious ore, minerals, and metals. Gold, in particular, has a smell that is irresistible to the aurumvorax and drives the latter into a frenzy if it detects it nearby. The aurumvorax will choose locations close to gold resources, such as mining settlements rich with gold ores. The aurumvorax usually makes its lair at the bottom of ravines or by the side of a mountain's timberline. Its burrow extends deep into the bedrock to support its immense weight and is usually rich with gold veins. The aurumvorax will usually store several nuggets of gold in its lair in the absence of gold veins. Solitary Predator. The aurumvorax is a generally solitary creature and usually keeps to itself within its territory. It is generally tolerant of other creatures of its size or smaller, provided they leave it alone. It prefers to spend its time sniffing mineral veins or hunting prey larger than itself, especially ones that may carry or wear precious minerals or alloys. Unyielding Savagery. In combat, the aurumvorax makes a very formidable opponent. Its body can resist most blows and attacks and can even shrug off fire and poison. But what makes it feared by those who have encountered it is the aurumvorax's unmatched ferocity. Once its powerful jaws clamp onto its victim's neck, it won't let go until it, or its prey is dead. After it gets hold of a victim, it rakes and tears at it with its adamantine-like claws, shredding the victim's armor to get to the creature's vulnerable flesh. Dwarven Foe. The aurumvorax always comes into conflict with dwarves who often share the same territory with it. The dwarves see the aurumvorax as a pest, as a single adult can strip a dwarven mine in a matter of days. The dwarves also hunt the aurumvorax as a rite of passage, crafting its prized hide into a special armor. A few crafty dwarves have even captured aurumvorax cubs, raising them as companions for the purpose of sniffing and finding gold veins. However, there have been stories of oversized specimens that have caused devastating damage to a dwarven mining community, prompting the dwarves to seek outside assistance. Traits Keen Smell. The aurumvorax has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Pounce. If the aurumvorax moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Claws attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Actions Multiattack. The aurumvorax attacks once with its Bite and twice with its Claws. If the aurumvorax has a creature grappled, it can use Rend Armor in place of one Claws attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage and if the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the aurumvorax can automatically hit the target with its Bite attack, and the aurumvorax can't attack another target with its Bite attack. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8 + 5) slashing damage. Rend Armor. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target it is grappling with. Hit: The nonmagical armor or shield (aurumvorax's choice) of the target takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty. If its Armor Class drops to 0, the armor or shield is destroyed. If the target's armor or shield is magical, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the Armor Class (AC) of the armor or shield (determined randomly) takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty. If its Armor Class drops to 0, the armor or shield is destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

