# Giant, Hellfire

**description**: Clad in a golden breastplate, a stone-skinned giant holds a ball of crackling green eldritch energy in the palm of its hand. Hellfire giants were once stone giants who were enslaved by fiends. These powerful soldiers eventually rose against their masters and escaped their hellish prison. Hellfire giants now take brutal reprisals against anyone they deem allies to fiends. Rune Powered. To empower their giant slaves, fiends etched malachite runes into the stony skin of the giants. Though these runes gave the giants new power, it also marked them with a hellish taint. Hellfire giants often take great pleasure in using their runic powers against fiends. Vengeful Hunters. Feeling removed from their stone giant brethren, many hellfire giants have become wanderers who pursue lives as bounty hunters. However, even the most dedicated bounty hunting hellfire giant will abandon or delay its bounties if it believes it can strike at fiends. Fiendish Bloodline. Much to the dismay of the first hellfire giants, the hellish traits and runes pass along to the giants' offspring. Seeing their power as a curse, many of the surviving giants choose not to have children, while others teach their children the importance of utilizing the fell power for the good of giantkind. Most hellfire giants have mixed opinions on tieflings. Some despise them, viewing them as the fell children of their former masters, while others feel a kinship with the tieflings. After all, like the giants, they were altered against their will by the machinations of fiends. Death Malison. When the hellfire giant dies, the runes on its body flash a bright green then turn to mundane malachite. Each creature within 20 feet of the giant must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be cursed for 7 days or until it is lifted by a remove curse spell or similar magic. While cursed, the creature has disadvantage on saving throws and on the first attack roll it makes on each of its turns. Fiends have disadvantage on the saving throw. Rune-Powered Weapons. The hellfire giant's weapon attacks are magical. When the giant hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d8 fire damage (included in the attack). Stone Camouflage. The giant has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Greatclub or Runic Blast attacks. Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Runic Blast. Ranged Spell Attack : +7 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit : 25 (4d10 + 3) force damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or its speed is halved until the end of its next turn. Fiends have disadvantage on the saving throw. Invisibility Rune. The hellfire giant magically turns invisible until it attacks, or until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the giant wears or carries is invisible with it. Reactions Runic Shield. The hellfire giant adds 4 to its AC against one attack that would hit it as green runes encircle the giant. To do so, the giant must see the attacker and can't be invisible.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

