# Giant Walking Stick

**description**: The fallen tree suddenly springs from the forest floor on six long, spindly legs. The creature rears up on its four hind legs and threateningly swing its front legs, which end in sharp spines. Giant walking sticks are forest-dwelling herbivores with remarkable camouflage. Forest Grazers. Giant walking sticks are peaceful denizens of the forest, where they live out their entire lives. To ensure they are left alone, they've evolved to resemble a part of the forest—a small tree, a large branch, or a fallen log. Some varieties take this even further, sprouting branch-like growths studded with what appear to be leaves or flowers (these greatly annoy bees). Because giant walking sticks remain motionless for long periods, they eventually gather a layer of other organisms, like lichens, fungus, epiphytes, and parasitic vines, further adding to the camouflage. Some giant walking sticks even sway from side to side in time to the breeze to better blend into their environment. Capable Herbivores. Though the giant walking stick is a peaceful herbivore, it can defend itself should offenders prove too persistent. This passivity has led many to claim the walking sticks are favored mounts of druids and peaceful forest fey, but none have ever seen proof of these claims. False Appearance. While the giant walking stick remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from normal forest vegetation, such as a small tree or a large branch. Forest Camouflage. The giant walking stick has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in forested terrain. Trampling Charge. If the giant walking stick moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the walking stick can make one Spine attack against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack. The giant walking stick makes two Spine attacks or one Ram attack and one Spine attack. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Spine. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Deadfall (Recharge 5-6). If the giant walking stick is at least 15 feet off the ground, it can fall to the ground, landing on its feet in a space it can see within 20 feet of it that contains one or more other creatures. Each of those creatures must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half the damage, isn't knocked prone, and is pushed 5 feet out of the walking stick's space into an unoccupied space of the creature's choice. In addition, each creature within 10 feet of the walking stick when it lands must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Bonus Actions Startling Display. Each creature within 5 feet of the walking stick must succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw or be incapacitated until the end of its next turn. The walking stick then flies up to its flying speed without provoking opportunity attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

