# Gibbering Horror

**description**: The gibbering horror is a larger and deadlier type of gibbering mouther. It can use sections of its body like an extending pseudopod, enabling it to bite prey from a distance. If a creature is unlucky enough to get caught by a pseudopod, it is drawn toward the gibbering horror. Engulf. Anyone standing close to the gibbering horror is at risk of getting enveloped by the creature's whole body. Dozens of mouths filled with jagged teeth immediately bite and shred the engulfed victim apart. Traits Aberrant Ground. The ground in a 15-foot radius around the horror is doughlike difficult terrain. Each creature that starts its turn in that area must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or have its speed reduced to 0 until the start of its next turn. Gibbering. The horror babbles incoherently while it can see any creature and isn't incapacitated. Each creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of the horror and can hear the gibbering must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the creature can't take reactions until the start of its next turn and rolls a d8 to determine what it does its turn. On a 1 to 4, the creature does nothing. On a 5 or 6, the creature takes no action or bonus action and uses all its movement to move in a randomly determined direction. On a 7 or 8, the creature makes a melee attack against a randomly determined creature within its reach or does nothing if it can't make such an attack. Actions Multiattack. The gibbering horror uses Engulf. It then makes two Pseudopod Bite attacks and, if it can, uses its Blinding Spittle. Pseudopod Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (3d8 + 2) piercing damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and grappled (escape DC 12). Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the horror can't use the same pseudopod Bite on another target. If the horror starts its turn grappling with a creature, it can use a bonus action to pull that creature within 5 feet of it. Blinding Spittle. The horror spits a chemical glob at a point it can see within 20 feet of it. The glob explodes in a blinding flash of light on impact. Each creature within 5 feet of the flash must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or be blinded until the end of the horror's next turn. Engulf. The horror moves up to its speed. While doing so, it can enter Medium or smaller creatures' spaces. Whenever the horror enters a creature's space, the creature must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, the creature can choose to be pushed 5 feet back or to the side of the horror. A creature that chooses not to be pushed suffers the consequences of a failed saving throw. On a failed save, the horror enters the creature's space, and the creature takes 29 (6d8 +2) piercing damage and is engulfed. While engulfed, the creature is blinded, can't breathe, is restrained, and takes 9 (2d8) piercing damage and 9 (2d8) acid damage at the start of each of the horror's turns. lf the target is killed by this damage, it is absorbed into the horror. When the horror moves, the engulfed creature moves with it. An engulfed creature can try to escape by taking an action to make a DC 13 Strength check. On a success, the creature escapes and enters a space of its choice within 5 feet of the horror. The horror can have only up to two Medium or small creatures engulfed at a time.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

