# Gibbering Mouther Companion (PB 2)

**description**: It’s difficult to describe what a gibbering mouther looks like, but you’ll know when you see one. An Adventurer’s Guide to Aberrations Gibbering mouthers are chaos incarnate. When these denizens of the ever-changing plane of Primordius travel, they take a piece of home with them. Reality bends to their will. The ground bubbles beneath them, gravity rearranges around them, and adventurers either run from them or are sucked into the chaos. Taxing Taxonomy. Gibbering mouthers wriggle as a mess of ever-shifting body parts. Their name was coined by an explorer who described seeing—and fleeing from—“a heaping pile of babbling mouths speaking in languages known and unknown.” Other adventurers have reported similar amalgamations of bones, muscles and limbs, each more horrifying than the last. Only recently did sages discover these creatures shared the same chaotic ancestry, though their appearance is so in flux that they can’t be perceived the same way twice. Chaos Gourmets. The gibbering mouther subsists on change the same way most creatures subsist on food and water. A gibbering mouther can treat themself to a feast just by finding their way to the Mundane World, where things are deliciously mutable. Though they can’t make the trip on their own, gibbering mouthers seize any opportunity they can to travel, sneaking through mage portals and interdimensional rifts caused by wild magic. Some are summoned to the Mundane World by particularly malevolent forces, like zealous cultists, megalomaniacal mages, and others wanting to change or distract the world. Unconscionable Transformation. Living beings are especially susceptible to the reality-bending influence of the gibbering mouther. Those exposed to one of these creatures often return with a souvenir: an altered body. At first these effects are minor—their body might steadily flicker in and out of reality, or their face might sprout an additional nose. These effects always worsen, adding and rearranging body parts over time. Eventually, those who can’t find supernatural help are transformed into gibbering mouthers themselves, roaming the Mundane World in search of a slice of reality to shift. Gibbering Friend. On rare occasion, a gibbering mouther finds an adventurer who embodies chaos. Such a pairing can bring about an unlikely friendship; the gibber- ing mouther happily serves as a stalwart companion as long as their caretaker provides plenty of opportunities to warp reality. In even more unique circumstances, an adventurer turned into a gibbering mouther might resist the call of chaos and remain with their party. Traits Immutable Form. The gibbering mouther is immune to any power, spell, or effect that would alter their form. Viscous Vicinity. The gibbering mouther envelops their surroundings in their shifting reality. The area within 10 feet of them is difficult terrain for other creatures. Actions Signature Attack (Reality Rend). Melee Power Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 1d6 plus PB psychic damage. 1st Level: Stretch Attack (2 Ferocity). The gibbering mouther makes a signature attack with a reach of 10 feet. On a hit, the attack deals an extra PB damage, and the gibbering mouther can pull the target 5 feet toward them. 3rd Level: Reality Pull (5 Ferocity). The gibbering mouther warps reality around up to PB enemies within 60 feet of them. Each target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 20 feet directly toward the gibbering mouther. 5th Level: Vicinity Shift (8 Ferocity). The gibbering mouther and each ally within 30 feet of them gains a +PB bonus to damage rolls and has their speed doubled until the start of the gibbering mouther’s next turn. Additionally, the gibbering mouther can make one signature attack as part of this action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

