# Gilleth

**description**: Gilleth was found wrapped in a blanket crying in a clearing in Jaelarthal Orioth by two Aerenal elven women, Lia and Niath. Unsure what to do with a human child, the couple traveled to Shae Mordai, the City of the Dead, to seek guidance from the Undying Court. To their surprise and joy, they were told to keep the child and raise her in their people's way. Despite the approval of the Undying Court, life wasn't easy for Gilleth. As the only human among elves, she was somewhat of an outcast. Many were unsure of why she was approved or why Lia and Niath hadn't tried to adopt an elven child, one of their own. Despite that, Gilleth was mostly happy. As a warlock of the Undying Court, Gilleth rose in social position. This gift reignited questions about her origin and why the Undying Court would bestow such a power to an outsider. Shortly after, a group of mercenaries stole an ancient relic from the City of the Dead. Gilleth took it upon herself to track them down to the Library of Korranberg to recapture the relic to prove she was worthy of her powers. Traits Among the Dead. You have advantage on saving throws against any disease. Additionally, Undead have difficulty harming you. If an Undead targets you directly with an attack or a harmful spell, that creature must make a Wisdom saving throw against her spell save DC (an Undead needn't make the save when it includes you in an area effect, such as the explosion of fireball). On a failed save, the creature must choose a new target or forfeit targeting someone instead of you, potentially wasting the attack or spell. On a successful save, the creature is immune to this effect for 24 hours. An Undead is also immune to this effect for 24 hours if you target it with an attack or a harmful spell. By Popular Demand. You can always find a place to perform, usually in an inn or tavern but possibly with a circus, at a theater, or even in a noble's court. At such a place, you receive free lodging and food of a modest or comfortable standard (depending on the quality of the establishment), as long as you perform each night. In addition, your performance makes you something of a local figure. When strangers recognize you in a town where you have performed, they typically take a liking to you. Relentless Endurance (Recharges After a Short or Long Rest). When you are reduced to 0 hit points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 hit point instead. Speak with Small Beasts. Through sounds and gestures, you can communicate simple ideas with Small or smaller Beasts. Your people love animals and often keep squirrels, badgers, rabbits, moles, woodpeckers, and other creatures as beloved pets. Spellcasting. Your spellcasting ability is Charisma (+5 to hit with spell attacks, spell save DC 13). You regain your expended spell slots when you finish a short or long rest. You knows the following warlock spells: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, eldritch blast, spare the dying 1st level (1 slot): healing elixir, unseen servant Actions Attack. You can attack when you take this action, using the following: Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 feet., one target. Hit: 1d4 + 2 piercing damage. Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8 + 2 piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human)
- Expansion: 24690

**publisher**: Gnome Made Games

**book**: An Elf and an Orc Had A Little Baby

