# Girolamo Savonarola

**description**: Father Savonarola is the prior of the Dominican convent of San Marco. He was born in Ferrara as the third of seven children into the family of a merchant and banker, who in the end failed and left his numerous daughters without dowry to speak of. After being refused by a young woman of the wealthy Strozzi family, Girolamo abandoned his studies of the classics and medicine and moved to Bologna to join the Dominican order. In 1480, he started preaching in Florence, concentrating on Church reform, simplicity and justice for the common folk. In some ways, he is actually “one of the good guys”, but not really liked, maybe because his fanatic adherence to poverty clashes so much with the sensual Renaissance way of life. In these early years, he was not yet able to really reach his audiences and his speeches were of little success, which is why he moved frequently in his search for recognition. Maybe out of frustration, his republican sermons gradually transformed into apocalyptic revelations that inspired the listeners and finally got him attention from more prominent circles. Upon recommendation by the count Mirandola, Lorenzo de’ Medici invited Savonarola in 1490 to return to Florence. A year later, he was made prior of the most prominent abbey San Marco and thus became one of the most influential people in Florence. By 1492, Savonarola has become an absolute hardliner who believes that only the adherence to the strictest rules will allow for Florence to turn into the “new Jerusalem”. His sermons are full of graphic descriptions of the evil that will befall men if they do not renounce vanity and all the dangerous ideas that define this era. Lorenzo’s favors towards him will not prevent Savonarola from becoming il Magnifico’s greatest critic: He blames whatever evil happens on the lax morals of the unofficial ruler. Or on the Pope, whom he attacks as fervently as he does the ruling elite. This may one day lead to grave problems, but in 1492, the high clergy still tolerates Savonarola. He is just too popular among not just the common people, but also with an increasing number of the wealthy. Savonarola has become the most listened-to preacher in Florence. In truth, Savonarola is highly damaged and delusional. On the one hand, he knows that harming Lorenzo is necromancy and his plot to discredit the Medici family’s allies is pure evil, but on the other hand he has convinced himself that whatever he undertakes is ultimately sanctioned by the divine because it serves good. Savonarola also has a problem with women, attacking their vanity in his sermons. Whether this comes from his rejection by Laudomina Strozzi as a young man or the fact that he was surrounded by a flock of sisters during his early years, no one can tell. Queen Kalliya, however, has managed to show him the face of a woman that he can trust, maybe like an older sister. This is why he honestly believes that the hermit Ofelia will help him reach his goals. Savonarola has an impressive physiognomy: dark piercing eyes, a prominent nose and a bald head. His voice can change from threatening to charming and he has the power to convince even the biggest skeptic. He carries Satan’s hair glued to the back of the cross he wears around his neck. (Read about the function of this hair in Act 3.) Tips for the GM: Savonarola is of utmost importance for the adventure as the one who initiates the group’s quest. He has to be played in a very convincing manner and will hide all evil intentions as well as his fanatic disposition during the conversation so as not to antagonize anyone whom he might be able to use to his advantage. His voice and words are pleasing and authoritative at the same time, his gaze intense and his gestures sparse. He describes the downfall of Florence in a way that puts the characters under a spell – adding magic if necessary. Traits Potent Spellcasting. Add +4 damage to any cleric cantrip. Dark One’s Blessing. When you reduce a hostile creature to 0 hit points, you gain 7 hit points. Spellcasting. Savonarola is a 9th-level cleric and a 3rd-level warlock, so counts as a 12th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom/Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). Savonarola knows the following spells (the 6th-level spell slot can be used with lower level spells, he has no 6th-level spell): Cantrips (at will): chill touch, guidance, light, sacred flame, spare the dying, thaumaturgy, true strike 1st level (4 slots): arms of hadar, bane, bless, burning hands, comprehend languages, detect magic, faerie fire, hellish rebuke, inflict wounds 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, crown of madness, flaming sphere, hold person, scorching ray, silence, zone of truth 3rd level (3 slots): daylight, dispel magic, fireball, mass healing word, speak with dead 4th level (3 slots): divination, guardian of faith, wall of fire 5th level (2 slots): commune, flamestrike, scrying 6th level (1 slot): --- Actions Warhammer +1. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d8 – 1) bludgeoning damage and the target must make a DC 15 Const itution saving throw, taking 3 (1d6) necrotic damage on a failed save. Turn Undead (1/rest). As a 9th-level cleric. Warding Flare (4/rest, range 30 feet), cleric feature (light domain). As a reaction can impose disadvantage on one attack roll.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (Cleric/Warlock)
- Expansion: 30058
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

