# Glacial Crawler

**description**: This pale, slithering, wormlike creature drags itself through the snow with four clawed limbs. Its eyeless head displays rows of dagger teeth. This predator has a thin, segmented body that tapers to a spiked tail. Four pointed limbs extend from its body, and its head is an eyeless, wedge-shaped mass of flesh with a maw full of dagger-like teeth. Prehistoric Predation. Peoples of cold regions whisper fireside-tales of a monster that has plagued the lands since their progenitors first settled there. It is a nightmare with many names, all bearing the same mien: “whale-worm,” “follower-under-the-ice,” or, “walrus-worm”. Most call it the glacial crawler. Burrowing Carnivore. Glacial crawlers are hunters of the icepacks and frigid, deep-water coastlines. In the ocean, they seek whatever prey they can, preferring large, warm-blooded creatures, such as polar bears, narwhals, and walruses. When aquatic prey becomes scarce, they venture inland, tunneling through glacial-flows and icefields to hunt. The crawler's body exudes a superheated, acidic mucus that helps it dig through the ice. Whether in icy water or on land, it prefers to hide with only its tail visible, pouncing when its prey takes a bite of the wiggling tail. From the Depths. The glacial crawler is a creature of the deep ocean. Spawned in the lightless depths, it makes its way to more abundant food near the surface. When sightings of a glacial crawler cease for a time, the creature has returned to the deeps to spawn more of its kind. Acidic Coating. A creature that touches the glacial crawler or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 9 (2d8) acid damage. Amphibious. The glacial crawler can breathe air and water. Snow Camouflage. The glacial crawler has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in snowy terrain. Tunneler. The glacial crawler can burrow through ice, snow, and permafrost, and leaves a 5-foot-diameter tunnel in its wake. Actions Multiattack. The glacial crawler makes two Bite attacks and one Tail Spike attack, or it makes three Superheated Acid Spit attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) acid damage. Tail Spike. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) piercing damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 17) if it is a Large or smaller creature and the crawler doesn't have another creature grappled. Superheated Acid Spit. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) acid damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Acidic Spray (Recharge 5-6). The glacial crawler spews superheated digestive juices in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 18 (4d8) acid and 18 (4d8) fire damage and is coated in heated acid. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't coated in acid. A creature coated in heated acid takes 4 (1d8) acid damage and 4 (1d8) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature, including the coated target, can take its action to wash or scrub off the acid, ending the effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

