# Glass Ghost

**description**: A native of the Astral Plane, the Glass Ghost, is a humanoid formed of living glass and sand who can enter the dreams of others (see ARCADIA 3's The Dream Kin)— or they were in their previous life. Now, they exist only in the dreams of others, but they are still capable of great harm and violence. A dream-based revenant bent on exacting harsh revenge against all adventurers. Unlike the smooth, blown-glass look that most sand speakers have, their form is cracked, sharp, and jagged, their hand formed into a cruel claw. The Glass Ghost is nearly impossible to truly kill; if encountered in a dream and destroyed, it simply takes a week to reform and continue their attacks. Discorporation . When the Glass Ghost drops to 0 hit points or dies, their dreamform is destroyed but their essence travels back to the Astral Plane, and they can’t enter dreams or use actions. After 1 week, the Glass Ghost gains a new dreamform, regaining all their hit points and becoming active again. Evasion . When subjected to an effect that allows a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the Glass Ghost takes no damage on a successful save or half damage on a failed one, provided the Glass Ghost is not incapacitated. Actions Multiattack . The Glass Ghost makes two Glass Claw attacks. Glass Claw . Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 14 Charisma saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. The attack deals an extra 7 (2d6) piercing damage if the Glass Ghost has advantage on the attack roll or if the target is within 5 feet of one of the Glass Ghost’s allies. Shard of Glass . Ranged Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit : 11 (2d10) force damage. The attack deals an extra 14 (4d6) force damage if the Glass Ghost has advantage on the attack roll or if the target is within 5 feet of one of the Glass Ghost’s allies. On a hit or a miss, the shard explodes, and the target and each creature within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) piercing damage. Bonus Actions Fear Themself . The Glass Ghost can conjure a copy of themselves in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of them. Additionally, the Glass Ghost can swap places with a copy within 30 feet of them. Reactions Dream Logic . When the Glass Ghost or one of their copies is hit with a melee attack, the Glass Ghost can swap places with another creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target takes the damage instead of the Glass Ghost. Villain Actions The Glass Ghost has three villain actions. They can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy creature’s turn. They take villain action 1 during the first round of combat, villain action 2 during the second, and villain action 3 during the third round. Villain Action 1: One, Two, I’m Coming for You . The Glass Ghost conjures multiple copies of themself. One copy appears within 5 feet of each creature within 60 feet of the Glass Ghost. Additionally, as part of this action, the Glass Ghost can swap places with one of the copies. Villain Action 2: Kill for Me . Each creature within 5 feet of a copy of the Glass Ghost must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be briefly possessed by the copy. The copy disappears and forces the possessed creature to use its movement and action on its next turn to move toward the possessed creature’s nearest ally and target it with a weapon attack or cantrip that deals damage. If a copy is adjacent to more than one target, the copy targets the first creature in initiative order that isn’t already possessed. At the end of the possessed creature’s next turn, the copy reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the possessed creature. Villain Action 3: It’s Prime Time . Each remaining copy of the Glass Ghost explodes in a burst of astral sand, dealing 7 (2d6) psychic damage to each creature within 10 feet of it except for the Glass Ghost and destroying the copy. Each creature struck by the sand must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be outlined in shimmering sand. Until an outlined creature exits the dream, any attack rolls against it have advantage if the attacker can see it, and it can’t benefit from being invisible.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 22851
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 12

