# Glatisant Alpha

**description**: The horrid glatisant is a bizarre amalgamation of three creatures. It has the head, neck, and tail of a monstrous serpent, the body and thighs of a leopard, and the cloven hooves of a hart. It stands 6 feet tall at the shoulder, and its body length measures 25 feet long. Demonic Offspring. The glatisant is born from the union of a humanoid of royal descent and a powerful demon. The humanoid is said to have desired something - power, wealth, or having someone specific to fall in love with it and, in desperation, petitioned a demon. In return for fulfilling its wishes, the humanoid is required to have sexual intercourse with the demon. After 3 months, either the humanoid (if she was female) or the demon gives birth to a serpent, which immediately escapes to the wild. Curse to the Land. The vile creature rapidly grows into a glatisant and becomes bound to the territory it was born into and can never willingly leave it. Born with an insatiable lust to kill and devour flesh, the glatisant becomes a terrible menace to the land as it stalks and preys on people, game animals, and livestock. Borborygmus. The glatisant is a cunning and very dangerous predator. Due to its demonic lineage, it has a very heightened sense of smell, incredible strength, speed, and natural resistance to magic. Its powerful kicks can fell giants and its dreadful bite can inject a deadly venom that can cause muscle, tissue, and organ to rapidly rot. The glatisant can also spit or spray this potent venom at long ranges, causing blindness to those it hits. What the glatisant is known for, however, is its ability to make its belly create loud, dreadful, growling sounds that chill the blood of anyone who hears it. Questing Beast. The glatisant is known by other names on other continents. Among the most popular names it is called is serpopard, because of its appearance, and questing beast, due to it being an immediate cause of concern that a kingdom would hire adventurers to slay it. Traits Keen Smell. The glatisant has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Magic Resistance. The glatisant has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The glatisant makes one Bite attack and one Hooves attack. It can use Poison Spit in place of its Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage and the target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) poison damage and is poisoned. A poisoned creature is incapacitated and takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage at the end of each of its turns. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and if the target is Huge or smaller, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Poison Spit. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 30 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (5d6) poison damage and the target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is blinded. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Poison Spray (Recharge 5–6). The glatisant spits poison in a line that is 30 feet long and 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 28 (8d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is blinded. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Bonus Actions Borborygmus. The glatisant's belly emits a loud and horrific growling sound. Each creature that isn't a glatisant within 60 feet of the glatisant and can hear the glatisant must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, unless the glatisant is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target is frightened until the end of the glatisant's next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the glatisant's Borborygmus for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

