# Gloom Weaver

**description**: Shadar-kai In the perpetual gloom of the Shadowfell lives a society that serves the Raven⁠ Queen. They were brought into that dusky realm in ages past, so long ago that they’re now perfectly adapted to that cheerless environment⁠, both physically and mentally. Soul Custodians. Shadar-kai watch over both the Shadowfell and the material world, scouting out choice souls and tragedies that might please their deity. They are rumored to be able to coax worldly events along tragic paths for her amusement. The Raven⁠ Queen is famously cryptic even to her most devoted followers, however. The shadar-kai’s efforts are rewarded only with vague omens they interpret as best they can. Blighted Elves. Shadar-kai were once elves, but eons of exposure to the debilitating influence of the Shadowfell has left them joyless and mournful. In that realm, they have the appearance of withered elves: pale hair, wrinkled gray skin, and swollen joints give them a corpselike aspect. They appear more youthful while on other planes, but their skin always retains its deathly pallor. They dress in dark cloaks and heavy veils, detest mirrors, and avoid keeping things that remind them of their age. Gloom Weaver Although a formidable fighter⁠, a gloom weaver is often content to remain hidden in the shadows, watching with rapt attention as its very presence affects its victims. Its dark energy weighs down the heart, causing those within its oppressive aura to feel the approach of death. This torment alone is enough to please its master, the Raven⁠ Queen, but should it be detected, a gloom weaver uses its shadow⁠ magic to reduce its enemies to ghastly corpses. Traits Burden of Time⁠. Beasts and humanoids, other than shadar-kai, have disadvantage on saving throws while within 10 feet of the gloom weaver. Fey Ancestry. The gloom weaver has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to sleep. Innate Spellcasting. The gloom weaver’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: arcane eye, mage armor, speak with dead 1/day each: arcane gate, bane, compulsion, confusion, true seeing Spellcasting. The gloom weaver is a 12th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). It regains its expended spell slots when it finishes a short or long rest. It knows the following warlock spells: Cantrips (at will): chill touch (3d8 damage) , eldritch blast (3 beams, +4 bonus to each damage roll) , minor illusion, prestidigitation 1st−5th level (3 5th-level slots): armor of Agathys, blight, darkness, dream, invisibility, fear, hypnotic pattern, major image, contact other plane, vampiric touch, witch bolt Actions Multiattack. The gloom weaver makes two spear attacks and casts one spell that takes 1 action⁠ to cast. Shadow Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, or 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage if used with two hands, plus 26 (4d12) necrotic damage. Reactions Misty Escape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the gloom weaver takes damage, it turns invisible and teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. It remains invisible⁠ until the start of its next turn or until it attacks or casts a spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Elf)
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 4
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

