# Gnoll Abyssal Summoner

**description**: Gnolls aren’t humanoids, but hyena-faced fiends— created by a dead demon lord, they carry his evil legacy wherever they roam. Originally from the Abyssal Wasteland, gnolls quickly spread across the timescape, and they thrive in deserts, plains, and other sparsely populated places. Though a gnoll’s muzzle is just as likely to be bloodied by carrion as by prey, their hunting packs hunger for violence, and they eagerly hunt travelers and raid settlements. The pack’s eerie war cry, a wild cackle, presages a night of battle and terror. Born from Blood. The Abyssal Wasteland is an alien landscape hostile to most life. Yet amidst its desolation, fiendish creatures thrive, including abyssal hyenas—blood- thirsty scavengers who fight with other lesser fiends over the corpses of demons. The first gnolls arose when a pack of these predators lapped at the ichor oozing from the wounds of a dying demon prince, As’sylrak the Warper. As his last act, the demon gave the fiendish hyenas a demonic cunning to match their insatiable hunger, bound his evil will to theirs, and turned their paws into hands so they could wield weapons. He called these new fiends “gnoll,” an Abyssal word that has many meanings, one of which is “to consume completely.” And true to their name, the gnolls immediately devoured their creator. Ceaseless Hunger. The merciless gnolls quickly spread across the timescape in search of new victims to quench their never-ending hunger. Their packs were followed by some of the abyssal hyenas who didn’t receive As’sylrak’s blessing; these tagalongs enjoy the castoffs of the gnoll packs. Gnolls never forgot the day when they tasted immortal flesh—and they hunger for more, longing for a day when gnolls hunt the gods themselves through heavenly halls. Gnoll War. Most gnolls live for the thrill of the hunt and the taste of flesh, and they aren’t choosy with their targets. Perhaps the one saving grace for most humanoid communities is that gnoll war bands battle each other for territory, keeping their numbers reduced. Actions Multiattack. The summoner makes two attacks using Bite, Three-Tail Flail, Fire Blast, or a combination of them. They can replace one attack with a use of Demonic Howl, if available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage, and if the target is a creature, another creature the summoner can see within 30 feet of them magically regains 7 (2d6) hit points. If this attack is made against a willing ally, it automatically hits. Three-Tail Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (3d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target is pushed 5 feet away from the summoner. Fire Blast (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) fire damage. Demonic Howl (Recharge 5–6). Until the beginning of the summoner’s next turn, each ally within 30 feet of the summoner who can hear them has advantage on attack rolls. Uplift (3/Day). The gnoll magically turns an allied abyssal hyena into a gnoll marauder for 1 hour. Bonus Actions Summon Abyssal Hyenas (3/Day). The summoner sum- mons 1d4 + 1 abyssal hyenas , who appear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of the summoner. The hyenas act immediately after the summoner’s turn and follow the summoner’s commands. Reactions Death Frenzy. When an ally the summoner can see within 30 feet of them is reduced to 0 hit points, the summoner moves up to half their speed and makes a Bite attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Gnoll)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

