# Gnoll Cackler

**description**: Gnolls aren’t humanoids, but hyena-faced fiends— created by a dead demon lord, they carry his evil legacy wherever they roam. Originally from the Abyssal Wasteland, gnolls quickly spread across the timescape, and they thrive in deserts, plains, and other sparsely populated places. Though a gnoll’s muzzle is just as likely to be bloodied by carrion as by prey, their hunting packs hunger for violence, and they eagerly hunt travelers and raid settlements. The pack’s eerie war cry, a wild cackle, presages a night of battle and terror. Born from Blood. The Abyssal Wasteland is an alien landscape hostile to most life. Yet amidst its desolation, fiendish creatures thrive, including abyssal hyenas—blood- thirsty scavengers who fight with other lesser fiends over the corpses of demons. The first gnolls arose when a pack of these predators lapped at the ichor oozing from the wounds of a dying demon prince, As’sylrak the Warper. As his last act, the demon gave the fiendish hyenas a demonic cunning to match their insatiable hunger, bound his evil will to theirs, and turned their paws into hands so they could wield weapons. He called these new fiends “gnoll,” an Abyssal word that has many meanings, one of which is “to consume completely.” And true to their name, the gnolls immediately devoured their creator. Ceaseless Hunger. The merciless gnolls quickly spread across the timescape in search of new victims to quench their never-ending hunger. Their packs were followed by some of the abyssal hyenas who didn’t receive As’sylrak’s blessing; these tagalongs enjoy the castoffs of the gnoll packs. Gnolls never forgot the day when they tasted immortal flesh—and they hunger for more, longing for a day when gnolls hunt the gods themselves through heavenly halls. Gnoll War. Most gnolls live for the thrill of the hunt and the taste of flesh, and they aren’t choosy with their targets. Perhaps the one saving grace for most humanoid communities is that gnoll war bands battle each other for territory, keeping their numbers reduced. Actions Multiattack. The cackler makes one Bite attack or one Chill Touch attack and uses Moment of Brutality. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) necrotic damage. Chill Touch (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (2d8) necrotic damage, and the target can’t regain hit points until the start of the cackler’s next turn. Moment of Brutality. The cackler targets a creature they can see within 30 feet of them, magically flooding them with fury. The target must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw, which they can choose to fail. A creature who can’t be charmed succeeds on this saving throw automatically. On a failed save, the target takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage, then makes a Bite attack against a creature of the cackler’s choice within 5 feet of the target. If the target has no Bite attack, they make an unarmed strike that deals piercing damage equal to 1d4 + their Strength modifier on a hit. Fiendish Cackle (Recharge 5–6). The cackler unleashes a spine-chilling laugh. Each enemy within 30 feet of them who can hear them must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the cackler for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Reactions Death Frenzy. When an ally the cackler can see within 30 feet of them is reduced to 0 hit points, the cackler moves up to half their speed and makes a Bite attack. Fell Teleport. When a creature who the cackler can see within 30 feet of them dies, the cackler magically teleports into the space the creature occupied.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Gnoll)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

