# Gnoll Gnasher (PB 2)

**description**: Gnolls aren’t humanoids, but hyena-faced fiends— created by a dead demon lord, they carry his evil legacy wherever they roam. Originally from the Abyssal Wasteland, gnolls quickly spread across the timescape, and they thrive in deserts, plains, and other sparsely populated places. Though a gnoll’s muzzle is just as likely to be bloodied by carrion as by prey, their hunting packs hunger for violence, and they eagerly hunt travelers and raid settlements. The pack’s eerie war cry, a wild cackle, presages a night of battle and terror. Born from Blood. The Abyssal Wasteland is an alien landscape hostile to most life. Yet amidst its desolation, fiendish creatures thrive, including abyssal hyenas—blood- thirsty scavengers who fight with other lesser fiends over the corpses of demons. The first gnolls arose when a pack of these predators lapped at the ichor oozing from the wounds of a dying demon prince, As’sylrak the Warper. As his last act, the demon gave the fiendish hyenas a demonic cunning to match their insatiable hunger, bound his evil will to theirs, and turned their paws into hands so they could wield weapons. He called these new fiends “gnoll,” an Abyssal word that has many meanings, one of which is “to consume completely.” And true to their name, the gnolls immediately devoured their creator. Ceaseless Hunger. The merciless gnolls quickly spread across the timescape in search of new victims to quench their never-ending hunger. Their packs were followed by some of the abyssal hyenas who didn’t receive As’sylrak’s blessing; these tagalongs enjoy the castoffs of the gnoll packs. Gnolls never forgot the day when they tasted immortal flesh—and they hunger for more, longing for a day when gnolls hunt the gods themselves through heavenly halls. Gnoll War. Most gnolls live for the thrill of the hunt and the taste of flesh, and they aren’t choosy with their targets. Perhaps the one saving grace for most humanoid communities is that gnoll war bands battle each other for territory, keeping their numbers reduced. Actions Signature Attack (Bite). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8 plus PB piercing damage. Beginning at 7th level, the gnasher can make this attack twice, instead of once, when they take the Attack action on their turn. Features 3rd Level: Frenzied Bite (3/Day). When a creature the gnasher can see within 30 feet of them is reduced to 0 hit points, the gnasher can use a reaction to move up to half their speed and then make a signature attack. On a hit, the attack deals an extra PB piercing damage. 5th Level: Flurry of Fangs (3/Day). As an action, the gnasher makes a signature attack against up to PB creatures within 5 feet of them. 7th Level: Horrific Feast (1/Day). When the gnasher reduces a creature to 0 hit points with their signature attack, they can consume part of the creature as part of the attack, gaining PBd10 temporary hit points. Each enemy within 30 feet of the gnasher who can see them must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the gnasher until the end of the gnasher’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Gnoll)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Retainer

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

