# Gnomish Distiller

**description**: The maniacal-looking gnome before you has a large cask-shaped apparatus strapped to his back. He stares intently with jaundice-yellow eyes and a too-wide grin. Half of the gnome's once-glorious red mustache has clearly been burned away, probably by acid. Gnomish distillers unlock the destructive secrets within alchemical reagents and brew them into highly volatile solutions. Traits Strange Science. Gnomish distillers are driven by the pursuit of knowledge and believe that all reagents, magical or otherwise, including shadowstuff, can be distilled to a more potent version of their natural state. The quest to unlock the secret nature hidden within all things has frequently led to catastrophic destruction in the name of natural philosophy. Wyrd Alchemy for Sale. Wyrd gnomes embrace the darker side of invention, and gnomish distillers epitomize this trait. Distillers weaponize the knowledge gained from alchemical pursuits by creating deadly solutions, sprays, poisons, and explosives to sell to the highest bidder. Prescience. When the gnome finishes a long rest, roll a d20 and record the number rolled. Before their next long rest, they can replace one attack roll, saving throw, or ability check made by them or a creature that they can see, using this prescience roll. They must choose to do so before the roll. Actions Multiattack. The gnome uses Dispensing Apparatus and makes one weapon attack. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. Acidic Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) acid damage. Dispensing Apparatus. A gnomish distiller carries a backpack-like apparatus designed to expel a variety of damaging mixtures. While wearing the apparatus, a distiller can create one of the following effects, the same effect cannot be used twice in a row: The apparatus expels a 20-foot-radius sphere of poisonous gas centered on a point the distiller chooses within 30 feet. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The gas lingers in the air for 1 minute. A creature that starts its turn in the cloud must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or spend its action that turn retching and reeling. The apparatus expels a shower of a caustic solution in a line 30 feet long and 5 feet wide in a direction of the distiller's choice. Each creature in that line must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) acid damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. The apparatus expels slick grease in a 10-foot square centered on a point the distiller chooses within 30 feet. When the grease appears, each creature standing in its area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. A creature that enters the area or ends its turn there must also succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. Spellcasting. The gnome casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12): At will: guidance 1/day: augury , identify Bonus Actions Alchemical Capsule. The gnome breaks one of two capsules, contained in artificial teeth, and immediately gains the benefits of the stored potion. Either choose which two potions the gnome has or assume they have a potion of invisibility and a potion of growth .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Wyrd Gnome)
- Alignment: Any Chaotic Alignment
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

