# Goat Mother's Avatar

**description**: When the Blood Moon of Rebirth descends upon the world, it can deliver a corporeal sliver of the entity that imbues it with potency, an immature and frail embodiment of its vast cosmic might. Yet, the power of mortals is so insignificant that even this fragile shard of the Goat Mother’s energy can force the world to capitulate beneath its young. Whispers tell of such an avatar manifesting once in the kingdom of men. The collective might of their army proved insufficient, as the pathetic Thousand Youngs laid the realm to waste. Her existence was fleeting, dissipating alongside the moon, her inscrutable purpose fading with it. No such avatar has been witnessed since, the world likely so insignificant—a mere speck in the grand cosmic expanse—to catch a fragment of the Great One’s attention. Yet the question lingers—what might transpire as the world ventures perilously closer to otherworldly forces far beyond understanding? Ignorance is indeed bliss, and those who dare to pry too close to the truth face unsettling revelations. As mortals dabble in these eldritch arts, one can't help but fear the return of the pathetic avatar, or worse. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Goat Mother’s Avatar takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; she can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Unholy Blood. Blood drips from the moon and forms three 10-foot-radius pools on the ground within the lair. Whenever a creature summoned by the Goat Mother’s Avatar starts its turn in a pool or moves into a pool for the first time on its turn, it gains 11 (2d10) temporary hit points. Servants of the Goat Mother. The trees themselves open to give birth to servants of the Goat Mother. 1d4 aberrations, beasts, humanoids, or monstrosities of CR 3 or lower appear in unoccupied spaces within the lair. They share the Goat Mother Avatar's initiative but take their turn immediately after her and function in the same way as creatures summoned by her Circle of Rebirth. Roiling Madness. A cloud of roiling, maddening fog falls upon the lair. Each creature in the lair of the Goat Mother’s Avatar's choice must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or take 16 (3d10) psychic damage and gain one short-term madness. Regional Effects The region containing the Goat Mother's Avatar’s lair is warped by her magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: When the Goat Mother’s Avatar appears, the Blood Moon of Rebirth appears in the sky, and remains there until the avatar vanishes or dies. Trees within 6 miles of the lair grow taller and denser than usual, turning nearby forests into labyrinth-like wood. Creatures that enter the woods must make a DC 15 Survival check every hour to avoid getting lost. Aberrations, beasts, and monstrosities within 6 miles of the lair have their forms shifted. Their eyes turn into goat eyes, their skin or fur darkens, and they gain a climbing speed equal to their walking speed. Aberrations, beasts, monstrosities, and humanoids that engage in intercourse within 6 miles of the lair are blessed by the Goat Mother’s fertility, immediately becoming pregnant if they have the necessary reproductive organs. Pregnancies within 6 miles of the lair progress as much in one hour as they would in a day, and whenever a humanoid is born within 6 miles of the lair, the GM rolls a d20. On a 10 or lower, the humanoid becomes an accursed tiefling, a beast, or a monstrosity. If the Goat Mother’s Avatar dies, vegetation remains as it has grown, but the other effects fade over 1d2 days. Creatures that are born accursed remain so for the rest of their lives. “One can only wonder if the catastrophic annihilation wrought by this caprine being was a mere demonstration of power, a warning to those of us who meddle with forces beyond their comprehension. Though I posit that such a statement would be giving us far too much importance, and simple happenstance unleashed the apocalypse humans faced, happenstance yet again allowed it not to ravage the rest of our world. Woe betide the foolhardy souls who seek to harness these cosmic powers, for the consequences of such hubris could be disastrous. So, we stand at the precipice, looking into the abyss, heedless of the fact that the abyss is also looking back at us, waiting, ready to swallow us whole.” - Founder of the School of Eldritch Tongue, at the Obitus’ assembly Traits Curse Weaver. The avatar’s curses last for 1 minute. A cursed creature can make a DC 25 Charisma saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the oldest of these curses on itself on a success. If a creature drinks a vial of holy water, the DC of its next such saving throw is reduced by 5. A remove curse spell removes only one curse of the caster's choosing (or one at random). A greater restoration spell ends all curses on the target. Cycle of Rebirth. If the avatar is reduced to 0 hit points, she teleports to the center of her nearest Circle of Rebirth, regains 50 hit points, and all her curses end. Until the end of her next turn, she can’t be reduced below 1 hit point. Goat Leap. The avatar's long jump is up to 120 feet and her high jump is up to 60 feet, with or without a running start. Spellcasting. The avatar’s innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 25, +14 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: find the path, revivify, world breaker 3/day each: dominate monster, forest of dread, heal (other creatures only) 1/day: divine order: sacrifice Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the avatar fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Mother Tongue. The avatar can communicate with creatures she has summoned as if they shared a language. Nurturing Essence. Whenever a creature summoned by the avatar ends its turn within 10 feet of her, it regains 16 (3d10) hit points. Progenitor's Tears. Whenever a creature that was summoned by the avatar dies, the avatar mourns its death, taking 14 (4d6) psychic damage and becoming enraged, granting her advantage on attack rolls until the end of her next turn. Actions Multiattack. The avatar uses her Maddening Presence, then makes three attacks. She can use Circle of Rebirth in place of one of her attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 31 (4d12 + 5) slashing damage and 13 (2d12) poison damage. If the target is a humanoid, it must succeed on a DC 25 Charisma saving throw or fall under the Curse of Goat's Blood. While cursed in this way, a creature has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls it makes while within the avatar's Circles of Rebirth. Curse. Ranged Spell Attack: +17 to hit, range 300 ft., one creature. Hit: 26 (3d10 + 10) poison damage and the target suffers one of the following curses (avatar’s choice): Curse of Acquired Scent. Creatures summoned by the avatar have advantage on attack rolls against this creature. Curse of Draining Life. Whenever the creature would regain hit points, the avatar regains those hit points instead. Curse of the Red Moon. The creature can’t cast spells of 5th level or higher. Maddening Presence. The avatar expunges doom from her many faces. Each creature of the avatar's choice within 120 feet of the avatar and aware of her must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or become paralyzed until the end of its next turn. A creature paralyzed in this way isn't incapacitated, though it still can't move or speak. If a creature has failed this saving throw three times, it also gains an indefinite madness. If a creature's saving throw is successful or it has already gained an indefinite madness from this action, the creature is otherwise immune to the avatar's Maddening Presence for the next 24 hours. Circle of Rebirth (Recharge 4-6). Using her birthing powers, the avatar creates a 15-foot-radius circle centered on a point within 120 feet of her. When the circle appears and at the start of each of the avatar's turns, she can summon any aberration, beast, humanoid, or monstrosity of CR 5 lower, which emerges under her control from an unoccupied space in the circle. The creature shares her initiative count, but takes its turn immediately after her, following the avatar's telepathic commands (no action required by her). The circle has 50 hit points and AC 21. It has resistance to cold, fire, and necrotic damage, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. If the avatar summons three monsters from it or the circle is reduced to 0 hit points, it is destroyed. Reactions Maternal Instincts. When a creature summoned by the avatar within 30 feet of her is targeted by an attack roll, she can impose disadvantage on the attack roll. Legendary Actions The avatar can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The avatar regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Claw. The avatar makes one claw attack. Detect. The avatar makes a Perception check. Dark Voyage (Costs 2 Actions). The avatar teleports to an unoccupied space within one of her Circles of Rebirth. Goat Mother's Will (Costs 3 Actions). The avatar amplifies all curses she currently has active, weakening her foes. Each creature currently under the effect of a curse must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution saving throw or suffer an additional effect based on the curse affecting it, which lasts until the curse is removed: Curse of Goat's Blood. At the start of each of its turns, the creature gains one level of exhaustion. Curse of Acquired Scent. Whenever the creature takes damage from a creature summoned by the avatar, it takes an additional 11 (2d10) poison damage. Curse of Draining Life. The creature has disadvantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws and checks. Curse of the Red Moon. At the start of each of its turns, the creature loses its highest level spell slot.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

