# Goblich

**description**: TRAITS Shapechanger: The goblich can use its action to polymorph into a Small goblin with leathery green skin or back into its true form, a Large giant-goblin hybrid. In its true form, the goblich has skin made of gold, which increases his AC to 21, and its Strength score is 18 (+4). Otherwise, its statistics are the same in each form. Legendary Resistance (3/Day): If the goblich fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rejuvenation: If it has a phylactery, a destroyed goblich gains a new body in 1d10 days, regaining all its hit points and becoming active again. The new body appears within 5 feet of the phylactery. Spellcasting: The goblich is an 12th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). The goblich has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, mage hand, prestidigitation, ray of frost, shocking grasp 1st level (4 slots): detect magic, magic missile, shield 2nd Level (3 slots): detect thoughts, hold person, invisibility, mirror image, misty step 3rd Level (3 slots): counterspell, dispel magic, lightning bolt 4th Level (3 slots): blight, confusion 5th Level (2 slots): mislead, hold monster 6th level (1 slot): eyebite, disintegrate Turn Resistance: The goblich has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead. ACTIONS Multiattack: In goblin form, the goblich makes two paralyzing touch attacks. In true form, it makes two slam attacks. If both slam attacks hit the same target, the goblich can make a third slam attack against that target. Paralyzing Touch (Goblin Form Only): Melee Spell Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) cold damage and the target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw of become paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Slam (True Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack: + 10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) bludgeoning damage. REACTIONS Sacrifice Lackey: When a target the goblich can see hits the goblich with a melee attack, the goblich pulls an ally within 5 feet of it in front of the attack. The ally becomes the target of the attack. LEGENDARY ACTIONS The goblich can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The goblich regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Cantrip: The goblich casts a cantrip. Heat Metal: The goblich chooses a metal object it can see within 60 feet of it, magically causing it to glow red-hot for 1 minute. Until the effect ends, a creature in physical contact with the object at the start of its turn takes 9 (2d8) fire damage and must make a DC 19 Constitution damage. On a failed save, the creature drops the object if it can. If it doesn’t drop the object, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the start of the goblich’s next turn. Mage Hand Regeneration (Costs 2 Actions): The goblich casts a special version of the mage hand cantrip and uses the spectral hand to pilfer coins from the pockets of an enemy it can see within 30 feet of it. The goblich makes a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check contested by the target’s Dexterity check. If the goblich wins the contest, it steals 22 (4d10) coins from the target, provided the target is carrying coins. The goblich regains hit points equal to the number of coins stolen. LAIR ACTIONS While in its lair, the goblich can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the goblich can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects: Pit Noise: The goblich riles up the crowd, creating an unbelievable cacophony of noise. Each creature within 30 feet of the goblich that can hear must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 16 (3d10) thunder damage. Crowd Surge: The goblich whips the crowd into a frenzy, causing it to surge forward to overwhelm creatures. The goblich chooses a 20-foot-radius area it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in that area takes 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage and must make a successful DC 15 Strength saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 15) by the crowd. A creature grappled by the crowd is also restrained. Animate Weapons: The goblich causes a collection of nonmagical weapons that are not being worn or carried to magically animate. The weapons must be within 120 feet of the goblich, and the goblich must be able to see the objects. The weapons fly about at the goblich’s command, attacking up to three targets the goblich can see within 30 feet of it. Each target takes 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage, 10 (3d6) piercing damage, and 10 (3d6) slashing damage, or half as much damage with a successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. The weapons then fall to the ground.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: undead (shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 20254
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Goodman Games

**book**: The Prism of Redemption (FEF 24)

