# Godslayer

**description**: A vast pattern of glowing magical runes covers the surface of the metal warrior. It holds a glaive of crackling energy in one hand while its other hand produces a disc-shaped magical glyph. Godslayers are massive constructs created to find and destroy divine beings. Though the cultures who first designed them have long since vanished, the knowledge of their construction lingers. Once built, godslayers follow their singular directive without regard to any orders from their creators, though some occasionally ally themselves with those they find useful. Challenging Construction. Building a godslayer requires the finest materials, such as adamantine, mithral, and other more exotic metals. A stylus carved from a diamond must be used to engrave the runes on the metal plates of the godslayer's body. The crafter must also imbue the godslayer's shell with the energy from a recently slain celestial being of great power. Solitary Sentinel. When not actively hunting or fighting its divine prey, a godslayer tends to stand motionless, waiting for its long-reaching senses to detect its next target. This has led to many mistaking a godslayer for an ornate statue or nonfunctional construct. Construct Nature . The godslayer doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Divine Sense. The godslayer can pinpoint the location of Celestials, Fiends, divine avatars, and deities within 120 feet of it and can sense the general direction of such creatures within 1 mile of it. This sense extends into the Ethereal and Shadow Planes. Divine Slayer. The godslayer's attacks affect immortal beings, such as gods. Celestials, Fiends, divine avatars, and deities don't have resistance to the damage from the godslayer's attacks. If such a creature would normally have immunity to the damage from the godslayer's attacks, it has resistance instead. If the godslayer reduces a Celestial, Fiend, divine avatar, or deity to 0 hp, it absorbs the target's divine energy, preventing the target from reviving or being resurrected until the godslayer is destroyed. Immutable Form . The godslayer is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Inscrutable. The godslayer is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the godslayer's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If the godslayer fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance . The godslayer has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Siege Monster . The godslayer deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack . The godslayer uses Arcane Lexicon. It then makes three Energy Glaive or Rune Discus attacks. Energy Glaive . Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 48 (7d10 + 10) force damage. Rune Discus . Ranged Spell Attack: +19 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 41 (7d8 + 10) force damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or spells and magical effects are suppressed on the target and the target can't cast spells for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Arcane Lexicon . Glyphs on the godslayer's body cast ghostly copies into the air, forming into eldritch incantations. The godslayer chooses up to three creatures it can see within 90 feet of it, choosing one of the following options for each target. A creature can't be targeted by more than one effect at a time, and the godslayer can't use the same option on more than one target. Death Glyph. The target must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or be marked for death until the start of the godslayer's next turn. While marked for death, the target takes an extra 11 (2d10) force damage each time the godslayer hits the target with an Energy Glaive attack. Glyph of Despair. The target must succeed on a DC 25 Charisma saving throw or be overwhelmed with despair for 1 minute. While overwhelmed with despair, the target has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls. Glyph of Pain. The target must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated until the end of its next turn as it is overwhelmed by pain. This glyph has no effect on Undead or Constructs. Glyph of Summoning. The target must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or be magically teleported to an unoccupied space within 15 feet of the godslayer. Retributive Glyph. The target must succeed on a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw or be marked with a retributive glyph until the end of its next turn. While marked, the creature takes 9 (2d8) force damage each time it hits a creature with a weapon attack. Stupefying Glyph. The target must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution saving throw or be blinded and deafened until the end of its next turn. Bonus Actions Hunting Step . The godslayer magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space within 15 feet of a Celestial, Fiend, divine avatar, or deity it senses with Divine Sense, magically shifting from the Material Plane to the Ethereal or Shadow Planes or vice versa. The godslayer has advantage on the next attack roll it makes against the target before the start of its next turn. Glowing glyphs appear at the origin and destination when it uses this bonus action. Reactions Parry Spell. If the godslayer succeeds on a saving throw against a spell of 8th level or lower that targets only the godslayer, the spell has no effect. If the godslayer succeeds on the saving throw by 5 or more, the spell is reflected back at the spellcaster, using the slot level, spell save DC, attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the caster. Legendary Actions The godslayer can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The godslayer regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Arcane Word. The godslayer uses one glyph from its Arcane Lexicon on a target it can see within 90 feet of it. Attack. The godslayer makes one Energy Glaive or Rune Discus attack. Move. The godslayer moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Rejuvenating Repair (Costs 2 Actions). The godslayer regains 65 (10d12) hp.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 30

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

