# Golden Protector

**description**: A golden protector, revered by all lammasus, is the extremely rare offspring of a lammasu and a gold dragon. It bears several physical and mental traits of both its parents, making it a very formidable creature. It travels to the Astral Plane, Ethereal Plane, Outer Planes, and the Material Plane, providing aid whenever it can. Lammasu The lammasus are a race of noble creatures who worship and serve the deities of Arcadia, Bytopia, and Mount Celestia. They appear as large winged lions with humanoid heads. They have robust bodies that are covered in a rich coat of yellow-gold fur. They usually have thick auburn or dark red hair, with male lammasus' hair resembling a lion's mane. Lammasus live for about 150-200 years old. Divine Champion. The lammasu fosters peace, cures the sick and wounded, and defends the weak and helpless. Many seek its wisdom and help, especially when facing supernatural threats. The lammasu always tries to resolve conflicts through peaceful means. If combat is unavoidable, it will attack with its claws but will try not to kill anyone. Instead, it will force its enemies to immediately submit or surrender. Against powerful evil creatures such as fiends and undead, however, the lammasu will not hold back, using its divine spells and devastating fiery breath to full measure. Reclusive Guardians. Lammasus typically form prides that number around 4-6 members but solitary lammasus are not uncommon. They usually reside in abandoned temples and ruins that are always within an hour's travel to communities and settlements they watch over and protect. They sometimes live with couatls, green duwendes, opinicuses, pixies, sprites, and threskisphinxes who help tend fruit and vegetable gardens. Traits Pounce. If the golden protector moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Actions Multiattack. The golden protector makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) radiant damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) radiant damage. Spellcasting. The lammasu casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks): At will: guidance, light, sacred flame (2d8), thaumaturgy 2/day each: banishment, dimension door, dispel magic, freedom of movement, greater invisibility (self only) 1/day each: divine word, heal, heroes' feast, holy aura, plane shift, resurrection Breath Weapons (Recharge 5–6). The golden protector uses one of the following breath weapons. Fire Breath. The golden protector exhales fire in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 49 (11d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Weakening Breath. The golden protector exhales gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or have disadvantage on Strength-based attack rolls, Strength checks, and Strength saving throws for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Preserve Life (1/Day). The golden protector chooses any number of creatures it can see within 30 feet of it. The golden protector restores 80 hit points, divided among the target creatures. The golden protector can restore no more than half of a creature's hit point maximum.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity (Dragon)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

