# Golem, Origami

**description**: A vellum tapestry tears away from its wall mounts, then folds itself into the form of a paper dragon the size of a horse. Origami golems are exquisitely crafted from fine textiles, such as paper, vellum, papyrus, or starched silks. Origami golems serve well as hidden sentries, appearing as expensive, but innocuous screens, wall hangings, artwork, or floor-coverings until they attack. Murderous Masterworks. Some creators have a more sinister role in mind for the origami golem. These creatures use the golems as assassins, sneaking the creatures into areas where the intended victim will be, or delivering it as a gift. The golems then attack when opportunity allows. Construct Nature. The origami golem doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. False Appearance (Unfolded Form Only). While the golem remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from an ordinary paper screen, tapestry, or similar flat paper or fabric artwork. Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form, except Fold. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Standing Leap (Frog Form Only). The golem's long jump is up to 30 feet and its high jump is up to 15 feet, with or without a running start. Actions Multiattack. The origami golem makes three Lacerating Strike or Wing Buffet attacks. Lacerating Strike. Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) slashing damage. Wing Buffet (Dragon or Swan Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Hazardous Hop (Frog Form Only). If the golem jumps at least 15 feet as part of its movement, it can then use this action to land on its feet in an unoccupied space it can see. Each creature within 10 of the golem when it lands must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 33 (6d10) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, it takes half the damage and isn't knocked prone. Shredded Breath (Dragon Form Only, Recharge 5-6). The golem exhales a spray of paper fragments in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 31 (9d6) slashing damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't blinded. Trumpeting Blast (Swan Form Only, Recharge 5-6). The golem emits a trumpeting blast in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 31 (7d8) thunder damage and is deafened until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't deafened. Bonus Actions Fold. The golem can fold and reshape its papery body to resemble a Large dragon, a Large swan, or a Medium frog. It can use this bonus action again to unfold into a Large, flat piece of decorative fabric or paper. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. It reverts to its unfolded form if it dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

