# Golem, Ice

**description**: This barrel-chested humanoid has metal straps leading from its shoulders to legs made from the same metal. The metal in its torso holds a block of ice in place. Created to incapacitate and capture creatures on behalf of its controller, an ice golem follows the target assigned to it until it captures its quarry and returns its controller. Icy Hunters. Ice golems operate best in cold climates or during winter. While their creation allows them to withstand some heat, they can't carry out their tasks effectively in constant temperatures above 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Rogue Golems. Uncontrolled ice golems continue following their main directive, but they focus on capturing whenever they have an empty chest cavity. These golems kidnap their victims and deposit their captives relatively unharmed in a location they have declared as their home bases. Fortunately, the golems have no concept of concealing their movement, making them and their targets easy to track. Construct Nature . The ice golem doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Ice Cavity. The ice golem's torso is a block of ice that it can liquefy and refreeze, trapping and preserving creatures inside it. If the golem takes 15 fire damage or more on a single turn, the cavity liquefies if it was frozen. When the cavity is frozen, a creature that touches the golem or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 9 (2d8) cold damage. When the cavity is liquefied, a creature within 5 feet of the golem can take an action to pull a petrified creature out of the golem, if the golem has one inside it. Doing so requires a successful DC 16 Strength check, and the creature making the attempt takes 9 (2d8) cold damage. Immutable Form. The ice golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The ice golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack . The ice golem makes two Slam attacks, or it makes one Slam attack and uses Preserve Creature. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) cold damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 16) if it is a Medium or smaller creature and the golem doesn't have another creature grappled. Preserve Creature. The ice golem preserves a Medium or smaller creature grappled by it. The preserved creature can't breathe and is restrained as it starts to freeze. The restrained creature must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a failure, it takes 18 (4d8) cold damage, becomes petrified in ice in the golem's Ice Cavity, and has total cover from attacks and other effects outside the golem. If this damage reduces a creature to 0 hp, the creature automatically becomes stable. A petrified creature removed from the golem's Ice Cavity thaws, ending the petrification, in 1d4 rounds or immediately after taking fire damage. On a success, the creature takes half the damage and is ejected, landing prone in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the golem. If the golem moves, the preserved creature moves with it. The golem can have only one creature preserved at a time. The golem can't use Preserve Creature if its Ice Cavity is frozen. Reactions Freeze or Liquefy Cavity . The ice golem freezes or liquefies its Ice Cavity.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

