# Golem, Chain

**description**: A mass of tangled, rusty chains rattles its barbed links. As it rises and moves, it takes on a vaguely humanoid form, like a figure draped in a hooded cloak made of chains. Chain golems are native to infernal regions and created by chain devils. The creation process involves several chain devils participating in a ritual, each devil shedding one or more chains from its body and giving a sliver of its life force. The mass of chains can then be commanded by any chain devil involved in its creation. Infernal Hunters. Chain golems are created by chain devils to hunt down particular quarry and returning the creature to its infernal creators. The quarry may be an escaped soul, a creature that betrayed the devils, or an enemy in retreat. Once set on the trail, a chain golem pursues relentlessly until it catches the creature or is destroyed. Servile. If the chain devils that created the golem die, the golem attempts to seek out others. If one or more chain devils reenact the ritual that initially created the golem, adding a chain from their own bodies to the golem, it becomes theirs to command. Construct Nature. The chain golem doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Immutable Form. The chain golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Infernal Tetanus . A creature infected with this disease manifests symptoms 2d4 days after infection, which include fever, headache, sore throat, and muscle aches. This disease affects the nervous system, causing painful, debilitating muscle spasms that eventually inhibit mobility, speech, and breathing. Until the disease is cured, at the end of each long rest, the infected creature must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature's Dexterity score is reduced by 1d4 and it is paralyzed for 24 hours. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a long rest after the disease is cured. If the disease reduces the creature's Dexterity to 0, the creature dies. On a successful save, the infected creature instead suffers one level of exhaustion, and, until the disease is cured or the exhaustion is removed, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw to cast a spell with a verbal component. A creature that succeeds on three saving throws recovers from the disease. Magic Resistance . The chain golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons . The chain golem's attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The chain golem makes two Chain attacks. Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) slashing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or contract the infernal tetanus disease (see the Infernal Tetanus trait). The target is grappled (escape DC 14) if it is a Large or smaller creature and the golem doesn't have another creature grappled. Imprison. The chain golem creates a prison of chains around a Medium or smaller creature grappled by it. While imprisoned, the creature is restrained and takes 14 (4d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. The imprisoned creature or a creature within 5 feet of the golem can take an action to free the imprisoned creature. Doing so requires a successful DC 16 Strength check, and the creature making the attempt takes 7 (2d6) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

