# Golgari Shaman

**description**: Golgari shamans are the spiritual leaders of the Golgari Swarm. They teach the guild’s beliefs about the cycles of nature, using their necromantic magic to show how life sprouts from death. Golgari shamans paint their faces so they appear to have extra eyes on their cheeks and chins. They sometimes use magical moodmark paint (described in chapter 5) to allow them to communicate by means of these marks. They wear clothing adorned with beetle carapaces, spiderwebs, or shelf fungus. Izoni, Devkarin Matka The spiritual leader of the Devkarin elves holds the position of matka. Izoni, a Golgari shaman, has recently risen to her position after the suspicious death of her predecessor, Zdenia. Izoni is known for her ability to control insects and spiders, and she is never encountered without the company of one or more swarms of insects crawling over and around her. When she walks, she appears to glide over the ground. Traits Fey Ancestry. The shaman has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to sleep. Spellcasting. The shaman is an 8th-level Golgari spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). The shaman has the following druid spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): poison spray, shillelagh, thorn whip 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, entangle, ray of sickness 2nd level (3 slots): pass without trace, ray of enfeeblement, spike growth 3rd level (3 slots): animate dead, dispel magic, plant growth 4th level (2 slots): blight, giant insect Actions Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage if used with two hands. Fungal Rot. Melee Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) necrotic damage, and the target must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Feed on Death. When a creature within 30 feet of the shaman drops to 0 hit points, the shaman gains 5 (1d10) temporary hit points. Lair Actions Members of the Golgari Swarm have an intimate connection to their territory. When at least six Golgari defend their territory together, they can call on the environment to aid them. The group must include Jarad Vod Savo or at least one Golgari shaman, kraul death priest, undercity medusa, or Devkarin lich. When determining the difficulty of such an encounter, consider the lair to be one additional creature of challenge rating 1. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Golgari group takes a lair action, causing one of the following effects; the Golgari can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: If the Golgari can see any sewer openings, they can cause sewage to overflow. Any creature within 20 feet of such an opening must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone and pushed up to 20 feet in a straight line away from the opening. Spore-laden fungi release a cloud that fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the Golgari choose within 120 feet of any member of the group. The cloud spreads around corners and remains until one of the Golgari dismisses it as an action, the Golgari group uses this lair action again, or all the members of the Golgari group die. The area within the cloud is lightly obscured. Any creature in the cloud when it appears must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Any creature that ends its turn in the cloud takes 10 (3d6) poison damage. Tendrils of creeping fungi reach out to ensnare the enemies of the Golgari. The Golgari choose a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within 60 feet of any member of the group. Each creature in the area that isn’t allied with the Golgari group must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or become restrained until the Golgari group uses this lair action again, all the members of the group are slain, or no member of the group is within 60 feet of the effect. A creature restrained in this way can use an action to make a DC 15 Strength check, ending the restrained effect on itself with a success. Regional Effects The region containing a Golgari lair is infested with mosses and strange fungi. This habitat accounts for one or both of the following effects in the surrounding undercity (the effects don’t spread to the surface): Moss, fungi, and other growth covers every underground surface within half a mile of the lair. Fungal spores drifting throughout the lair have the power to animate corpses. Whenever a Small or Medium humanoid dies within the lair, roll a die. On an odd number, the dead creature rises up as a fungus drudge (use the zombie stat block in the Monster Manual ) 1d8 hours later, unless its body is destroyed. If all the Golgari in the lair die, the regional effects fade over 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Guildmasters' Guide to Ravnica

