# Gouger

**description**: Gougers are large beholder-kin created by phaerimms, an ancient race of powerful aberrations, eons ago to hunt and kill other beholders. Slightly larger and more unhinged than a standard beholder, the gouger possesses nearly the same magical powers as other beholders but is armed with an abrasive and razor-sharp tongue that it uses like a harpoon. The gouger also has four stubby legs under its body that allows it to skitter if forced on the ground. Because of its nature as a beholder-hunter, gougers have grown stronger than their brethren and can even negate another beholder’s magic. Beholder Hunters. While the phaerimm have since been nearly wiped out, the gougers continue to prowl the Underdark, aggressively hunting actively for beholders. They will almost always attack and prey on anything they believe they can kill and devour. It is quite possible, however, to convince them to enter into a truce with if they are provided proof or information about a beholder's location. Traits Antimagic Cone. The gouger's central eye creates an area of antimagic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 150-foot cone. At the start of each of its turns, the gouger decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. The area works against the gouger's own eye rays. Beholder Slayer. The gouger has advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against beholders. Actions Multiattack. The gouger makes two melee attacks: one with its Claws and one with its Bite or Tongue. It then uses its Eye Ray twice. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, the gouger can automatically hit the target with its Claws attack, and the Gouger can't use its Claws attack on another target. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) piercing damage. Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until it has regained all of its hit points. If the blinded creature is a beholder, it loses the ability to use one of its eye rays or central eye (determined randomly) while blinded. Each time the beholder target fails its saving throw, it loses another use of its eye ray or central eye (determined randomly, rerolling any duplicates). Eye Ray. The gouger shoots one of the following magical eye rays at random (roll d4, and reroll if the eye ray was already used this turn), choosing one target it can see within 120 feet of it: 1. Paralyzing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 2. Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 3. Telekinetic Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or the gouger moves it up to 30 feet in any direction. It is restrained by the ray's telekinetic grip until the start of the gouger's next turn or until the gouger is incapacitated. If the target is an object weighing 300 pounds or less that isn't being worn or carried, it is moved up to 30 feet in any direction. The gouger can also exert fine control on objects with this ray, such as manipulating a simple tool or opening a door or a container. 4. Disintegration Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 45 (10d8) force damage. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, its body becomes a pile of fine gray dust. If the target is a Large or smaller nonmagical object or creation of magical force, it is disintegrated without a saving throw. If the target is a Huge or larger object or creation of magical force, this ray disintegrates a 10-foot cube of it. Legendary Actions The gouger can take 3 legendary actions, using the options listed below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The gouger regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Eye Ray. The gouger uses one random Eye Ray. Tongue (Costs 2 Actions). The gouger makes one Tongue attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

