# Goxomoc

**description**: Goxomoc the Terror Lord slumbers under the great volcano called Ynixquichcauitl (een-eeks-keesh-KAH-hooee-tuhl) which can be translated to “The End of All Things.” The Oaxuatl people of Ix believe this volcano’s inevitable eruption will signal the end of this world, and they look to it to determine the slumbering titan’s mood. The Oaxuatl respect and revere their protector in his aspects as a being of the earth and of storms. In both ancient and modern Ixian temples, iconography features Goxomoc in many stylized forms. The Oaxuatl do not pray to him, invoke his name, or even believe he is aware of them. But they share an unshakable belief that, should the land be threatened, the Terror Lord shall rouse and defend the land. Father of Terror. The Oaxuatl people believe Goxomoc created the tetzahuitl, the great terror lizards that dominate their island chain. They consider these “children of Goxomoc” to be sacred avatars of the titan. The Lightning Lord. Goxomoc relies on powerful and reality-bending psionics to defeat his enemies, but should his corporeal form fail, enemies find themselves face-to-face with Goxomoc’s essence, Xogomoc—a giant terror lizard made of living lightning. Traits Amphibious. Goxomoc can breathe air and water. Earthbinder. Enemies within 60 feet of Goxomoc can’t fly, and when Goxomoc moves within 60 feet of a flying enemy, the enemy falls. Lightning Lord. If Goxomoc is reduced to 0 hit points, he sheds his flesh form and becomes Xogomoc . Any conditions or other supernatural effects that were affecting Goxomoc continue affecting Xogomoc. Psionic Resistance ( 3 /Day). If Goxomoc fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead, and he can’t use Energy Eyes or Shockwave until the end of his next turn. Psionic Weapons. Goxomoc’s weapon attacks are psionic. Siege Monster. Goxomoc deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack. Goxomoc makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Stomp attack, and he uses Energy Eyes. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 36 (4d12 + 10) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 20). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and Goxomoc can’t bite another target. If this damage reduces a creature to 0 hit points, they die and Goxomoc consumes their remains. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d10 + 10) slashing damage, and Goxomoc moves the target up to 10 feet horizontally. Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target who isn’t grappled by Goxomoc. Hit: 23 (2d12 + 10) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is Huge or smaller, they are knocked prone. *Energy Eyes ( 3 rd-Order Power). Goxomoc beams energy from his eyes at a creature he can see within 300 feet of him. The target must make a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) fire or lightning damage (Goxomoc’s choice) on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Catastrophic Breath (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Goxomoc breathes lightning in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 27 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 71 (11d12) fire or lightning damage (Gox­omoc’s choice) and is teleported to an unoccupied space of Goxomoc’s choice within that area. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t teleported. Bonus Actions *Shockwave ( 2 nd-Order Power). A psionic shock wave emanates from Goxomoc. Each creature of his choice within 15 feet of him must succeed on a DC 25 Strength saving throw or take 22 (4d10) force damage and be pushed up to 20 feet directly away from him. Reactions Volcanic Punishment. When Goxomoc takes damage, he teleports along with any creatures he is grappling in a burst of lava to an unoccupied space he can see within 30 feet of him. Each creature within 10 feet of the space he left must make a DC 27 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Villain Actions Goxomoc has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Rumble. Goxomoc stomps the ground, unleashing a wave of debilitating psionic energy. Mundane objects within 90 feet of Goxomoc that aren’t being worn or carried take 55 (10d10) force damage. Creatures within 90 feet of Goxomoc are knocked prone and must succeed on a DC 27 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained and embedded in the ground. A creature can use an action to make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity Acrobatics check, freeing themself or another creature within their reach on a success. Action 2 : Thunder. Goxomoc disappears in a crack of thunder, along with any creatures he is grappling, and reappears in an unoccupied space he can see within 120 feet of him. Each creature within 30 feet of either the space he left or his new space must make a DC 27 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Action 3 : Eruption. Goxomoc unleashes a psionic scream of anguish in the mind of enemies within 120 feet of him. Each target must make a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 44 (8d10) psychic damage and then becomes vulnerable to all damage dealt by Goxomoc until the end of his next turn. On a successful save, a crea­ture takes half as much damage and does not become vulnerable to damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan 
- Type: Monstrosity (Titan)
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 30

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

