# Grandfather of Assassins

**description**: A Grandfather of Assassins is the most skilled master assassin, and is usually the head of a network of Assassins's Guilds. His or her name is well known and greatly feared throughout the realm. Only a few, or none at all, know the Grandfather of Assassins' true identity. Traits Assassinate. During its first turn, the grandfather of assassins has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn. Any hit the grandfather of assassins scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit. Elusive. No attack roll has advantage on the grandfather of assassins as long as it isn't incapacitated. Evasion. If the grandfather of assassins is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the grandfather of assassins instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the grandfather of assassins fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons. The grandfather of assassins's weapon attacks are magical. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The grandfather of assassins deals an extra 35 (10d6) damage when the grandfather of assassins hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the grandfather of assassins that isn't incapacitated and the grandfather of assassins doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Stroke of Luck (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If the grandfather of assassins misses a target within range, it can turn the miss into a hit. Alternatively, if the grandfather of assassins fails an ability check, it can treat the d20 roll as a 20. Actions Multiattack. The grandfather of assassins makes one +2 Shortsword attack and one +2 Dagger attack, or two ranged attacks. +2 Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d6 + 7) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. +2 Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d4 + 7) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Cunning Action. The grandfather of assassins takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Legendary Actions The grandfather of assassins can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The grandfather of assassins regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Shift. The grandfather of assassins moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Vanish. The grandfather of assassins performs a Hide action. It can move up to half its speed before or after this action. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The grandfather of assassins makes a weapon attack. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. The grandfather of assassins halves the damage that it takes from an attack that hits it. The grandfather of assassins must be able to see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Non-Good
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

