# Grass Cat

**description**: A pair of bright eyes reflects the light of the campfire, peering in from the darkness of the plains. In the momentary glimpse as it moves away, one may see a lean, feral cat padding silently through the tall grass. Grass cats are large felines that travel in packs and hunt caribou in the northlands during the summer, migrating south during the winter to hunt boros on the central plains. Animals The crucible that was life after the Sundering affected the animals of Aryth as much as any, and some within the fey woodlands of Erethor were slowly transformed by it. Some animals devolved into an even more feral state than before, becoming swifter, stronger, and more aggressive in their hunt for food and quest for survival. Other animals expressed their inner nature by growing more intelligent and forming societies within their territory. These new creatures, the first dire animals known to the world, warred with the fey over territorial rights to the idyllic glades and pristine rivers of Erethor for thousands of years. At the end of the First Age, with the growing threat of the Shadow falling over all Eredane’s lands, Aradil called a council with the leaders of the dire animals, who also felt evil seeping into the land. From this great summit came the Dire Pact, an alliance born of mutual need that has grown into a true kinship between the fey and dire animals. The animals of the world play another role as well, one firmly under the control of Izrador. When he recruited and shaped the astiraxes as his servants, he saw an opportunity to further exploit Aryth’s natural resources. Though the malevolent spirits were not powerful enough to possess the intelligent bodies of humans or fey, they do have power over the beasts of the world. And so it was that the dark god corrupted the animals of the natural world, such that the forces of light could never look at their trusted and loyal companions, or the innocent and wild creatures with which they shared the world, without feeling a twinge of fear, suspicion, or distrust. Adventurers who travel with animal companions are viewed with even more suspicion than most strangers, at least by those who are aware of the astiraxes’ existence—what insanity must a person have to travel with a companion who could at any time become a servant of Shadow? Still, rumors of the heroism of the dire animals of Erethor have filtered to the human lands despite the Shadow’s best attempts to spread lies and misinformation about them, which has helped inspire a reverence toward animal-kind in many cultures. As a result, totemism is on the rise, especially among the halflings and those human communities who are in contact with them. Man’s Worst Enemy? Many of the cultures in the occupied lands have fast developed superstitions surrounding pets. In the Westlands and river communities around the Ardune, stories of the wogrens have led the people to believe that the ghosts of animals come back to protect their former masters. Thus, pets are kept for one year, after which time they are ritually sacrificed in hopes that the animals’ spirits will come back to protect the owners. In Erenhead, it is widely believed that feeding salt from the sea near Baden’s Bluff makes an animal immune to astirax possession. This faulty superstition has been the downfall of several resistance cells, whose members too easily let loose secrets while their “protected” pets skulked about, listening. The traitor princes and collaborators in the eastern cities around the Sea of Pelluria believe that it is a great honor to have one’s pet inhabited by an astirax, and so families keep many pets and often seek out bits of information so that they can tell them to their animals. The preponderance of false stories has led legates to actually discount much of what they hear, ironically lessening the chances that an astirax will actually possess a family pet during an investigation. Common Animals of Eredane Animal-kind has not flourished under the Shadow’s occupation. Existing domesticated herds were quickly depleted by armies on the march through Erenland, and rumors of the legates’ “demon ghosts” quickly made city dwellers nervous about keeping pets and allowing strays to roam the streets. As a result, pets have become scarce in large cities, and villages from the Dornish Northlands to the southern coasts have developed superstitions regarding animals. Among the free peoples of Eredane, concern over the use of animals as spies has grown in the last 100 years. Where possible, ranches and slaughterhouses are well controlled and placed some distance from cities. Even many legates do not trust having animals around, other than those inhabited by their companions, afraid that an enemy’s astirax might be spying on their activities. Nevertheless, most animals can be found somewhere in Eredane, especially those with profiles in the SRD or other popular supplementary materials. If an environment would typically have these creatures (wolves in northern forests, for example, or snakes in humid swamps), the creatures can also be found in Eredane’s equivalent environments. Traits Keen Smell. The grass cat has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Pounce. If the grass cat moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the grass cat can make one bite attack against it as a bonus action. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The grass cat deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the grass cat that isn’t incapacitated and the grass cat doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

