# Graven Image

**description**: Some of the darkest cults in the world have devised a way to sculpt idols in the image of Elder Evils and Far Realm deities. These idols, if fashioned correctly, can act as conduits for these beings on the Material Plane. A graven idol is typically made of semi-precious stone such as jet or jade and has hideous abilities that are terrifying to witness. Ritual Made. Each graven image must be fashioned over a period of months by one who has seen into the beyond, and gained the knowledge of the form of an Elder Evil or similar entity. The holder of this knowledge must then sculpt the form from precious material, and birth it into the world in a ritual which typically requires human sacrifice. Otherworldly Powers. A graven image has several unique abilities that make it terrifying to encounter. Their very nature is madness-inducing, causing even the staunchest warriors to fumble and lose their way. They can teleport through the Material Plane at will, disappearing from one space and reappearing in another as easily as walking across a room. They can fire beams of energy that sap a creature’s will and even humanity, or curse a creature to exist in an entirely other form, akin to a cloud of vapour. Constructed Nature. A graven image doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits False Appearance. While the graven image remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal statuette. Foment Madness. Any creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of the graven image must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw, or it hears a faint buzzing in its head for a moment and has l disadvantage on its next attack roll, saving throw, or ability check. If the saving throw against Foment Madness fails by 5 or more, the creature is instead subjected to the confusion spell for 1 minute (no concentration required by the graven image). While under the effect of that confusion , the creature is immune to Foment Madness. Immutable Form. The graven image is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Innate Spellcasting. The graven image’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: dimension door 3/day each: fear , phantasmal force Magic Resistance. The graven image has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The graven image makes two demoralising beam attacks. Demoralising Beam. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) force damage. If the target is a humanoid, its Charisma score is reduced by 1d4. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. The target dies if this reduces its Charisma to 0. Gaseous Curse (Recharge 5-6). The graven image targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw, or become cursed. While cursed, the target transforms, along with everything it is wearing or carrying, into a misty cloud. While in this form, the target’s only method of movement is a flying speed of 10 feet. The target can enter and occupy the space of another creature. The target has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through small holes, narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target can’t fall and remains hovering in the air even when stunned or otherwise incapacitated. While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can’t talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or holding can’t be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. The target can’t attack or cast spells. The curse lasts until removed by the remove curse spell or other magic.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: construct
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

