# Graveknight

**description**: Graveknights are undead warriors granted unlife by a cursed suit of armor. Most graveknights appear skeletal in appearance, and while one might think that the heavy armor they favor would obscure their true nature, most graveknights revel in the fact that they are skeletal horrors. Many wear armor that appears to be rusted, badly damaged, or incomplete, yet these features do not diminish their armor’s ability to protect them in battle. Even the lowliest of graveknights pose extreme danger to adventurers and are almost never encountered as less-powerful incarnations than those presented below. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The graveknight’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17). The graveknight can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: phantom steed Graveknight’s Curse. A living creature that dons the graveknight’s armor must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or be afflicted with the graveknight’s curse. Cursed creatures cannot remove the graveknight’s armor and must repeat the saving throw at the end of each long rest. On a second failed save, the creature has disadvantage on death saving throws. On a third failed save, the creature’s speed is halved. On a fourth failed save, the creature dies and transforms into the armor’s graveknight. A successful saving throw lifts the curse, and the armor falls off. The creature is subject to the curse if it dons the armor again. Rejuvenation. If a graveknight is destroyed, its armor regrows its body in 1d10 days. If the body is destroyed before then, the process restarts. A graveknight can only be permanently destroyed by obliterating its armor with a disintegrate spell, transporting it to the Positive Energy Plane, or by throwing it into the heart of a volcano. Ruinous Energy. The graveknight presented here is infused with cold, but others can be infused with acid, electricity, or fire. A graveknight is immune to damage type of its ruinous energy, and its attacks and devastating blast deal additional damage of this energy type. Sacrilegious Aura. When a creature within 30 feet of the graveknight uses a spell or ability that magically restores hit points, the creature must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the creature’s spell or ability fails and has no effect. Actions Multiattack. The graveknight makes two greatsword attacks. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6+5) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) cold damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) cold damage. Devastating Blast (Recharge 6). The graveknight unleashes a 30-foot cone of energy. Each creature in the area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The blast’s damage is the same type as its ruinous energy, cold, for this graveknight. Reactions Parry. The graveknight adds 4 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the graveknight must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

