# Gray Duwende

**description**: A gray duwende, also called "nuno sa punso," which means old man of the mound, is the wisest of all duwendes and can live twice as long than its kin. It has a light to a grayish-brown fur coat and tufts of grayish-white hair growing from its head and wears clothes and hats made from straw and scraps of cloth. A gray duwende is a solitary, stubborn, and ill-tempered creature who cares nothing more than to be left alone in peace, usually spending its time planting crops on its fields or sitting on its mound contemplating. Anyone who trespasses into its lands, steals from its property, or even accidentally steps on it will suffer from the gray duwende's wrath unless they pay it a generous amount of treasure - which can be in the form of shiny, worthless baubles or sugary treats. If one shows respect and enough "treasure," they might be able to convince the gray duwende to share what it knows about the local history and geography. Duwendes (Dwen-deh) Duwendes are tiny fey beings that are distantly related to gnomes. They stand no more than 6 inches tall and have bulbous noses, rat-like ears, and furry, leathery skin. Duwendes are carefree, inquisitive, self-indulgent, skittish, and whimsical creatures who live in the undergrowth of forests, fields, hills, and jungles. They can cast spells and converse with animals and plants. They are fond of mundane items, keepsakes, and tools humanoids use and go out of their way to collect them, sometimes sneaking into people's homes. They usually keep themselves hidden and invisible, but their reckless behaviors often place them at risk. There are three types of duwendes - dark, gray, and green. While each behaves differently, they generally tolerate each other's presence. Earth Attuned. Although they aren't earth fey, duwendes appear to have a connection to the Elemental Plane of Earth and are cordial with creatures native or have strong ties to it, such as earth elementals, galeb duhr, and korreds. Duwendes build their homes underground, forming large mounds rising from the earth. Unfortunately, their homes resemble large termite hills, and many passersby have foolishly tried to destroy them, earning the ire of the duwende who resides in it. The offending creatures find themselves blinded, cursed, or unable to stop themselves from having endless fits of laughter. Luck Giver. Duwendes are magical beings of chaos and have a natural ability to affect another person's luck. However, it depends on the duwende's nature and whim and its relationship to the person, on what kind of luck - good or bad, it will bestow to it. Traits Magic Resistance. The duwende has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Speak with Beasts and Plants. The duwende can communicate with beasts and plants as if they and the anito shared a language. Actions Sling. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 15/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Superior Invisibility. The duwende magically turns invisible until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the duwende wears or carries is invisible with it. Spellcasting. The duwende casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: mage hand, minor illusion, vicious mockery 3/day: charm person, healing word, Tasha's hideous laughter 1/day: bestow curse, blindness/deafness Reactions Alter Luck (3/Day). When a creature the duwende can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll, an ability check, or a saving throw, the duwende rolls a d10 and can choose to add it to or deduct it from the result. The duwende can make this choice after the roll is made but before the outcome is determined.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

