# Greater Bulette

**description**: Even more terrible than the bulettes are their very rare elder cousins, the greater bulettes. About the size of a two-story house, the ferocious greater bulette can lay waste to a village in a few hours and not leave a single survivor. Adventurers have stumbled into dungeons that have been stripped of their inhabitants, devoured by the massive bulette that only cares to eat, leaving only gaping tunnels and pits in its wake. In combat, the greater bulette prefers to ambush its prey by bursting forth from underground to knock them down. It then uses Deadly Leap if it can hit two or more targets. Afterward, it will focus on trying to catch a target with its Bite so that it can swallow it. Traits Standing Leap. The bulette's long jump is up to 40 feet and its high jump is up to 20 feet, with or without a running start. Actions Multiattack. The bulette makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 37 (5d12 + 5) piercing damage, and if the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the bulette can Bite only the grappled creature and has advantage on attack rolls to do so. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Deadly Leap. If the bulette jumps at least 15 feet as part of its movement, it can then use this action to land on its feet in a space that contains one or more other creatures. Each of those creatures must succeed on a DC 17 Strength or Dexterity saving throw (target's choice) or be knocked prone and take 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (3d8 + 5) slashing damage. On a successful save, the creature takes only half the damage, isn't knocked prone, and is pushed 5 feet out of the bulette's space into an unoccupied space of the creature's choice. If no unoccupied space is with in range, the creature instead falls prone in the bulette's space. Swallow. The bulette makes one Bite attack against a Medium or smaller target it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. While swallowed, the target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the bulette, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the bulette's turns. A bulette can have only up to one Medium or two Small creatures swallowed at a time. If the bulette takes 25 damage or more on a single turn from the swallowed creature, the bulette must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of the bulette. If the bulette dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. Bonus Actions Burst Forth (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). While underground, the bulette burrows at least 10 feet straight and breaks through a ground or wall's surface. During this move, it can enter Large or smaller creatures' spaces. A creature whose space the bulette enters must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is pushed 5 feet to the nearest space out of the bulette's path. On a failed save, the creature falls prone and takes 19 (4d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the bulette remains in the prone creature's space, the creature is also restrained until it's no longer in the same space as the bulette. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 15 Strength check. On a success, the creature is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the bulette and is no longer restrained.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

