# Greater Ammit

**description**: The fearsome ammit, also known as the "Eater of Hearts," is a terrifying demon that has a hybrid body composed of different ferocious animals. It possesses the head, upper back, and tail of a crocodile, the mane, neck, and front limbs of a lion, and the body and rear legs of a hippopotamus. Soul Devourer. The ammit is driven by its insatiable hunger for devouring the hearts of wretched mortals. By doing so, it sends the souls of its victims to the Abyss, where they are transformed into low-ranking demons. It is summoned by cultists or dispatched by demon lords to carry out this task. The ammit serves as an instrument of punishment and a means for its demon lord master to amass an army. The ammit takes great pleasure in its gruesome duty, reveling in tearing apart its victims limb from limb before consuming their hearts. Bringer of Woe. The ammit is an incredibly imposing creature to face in combat, large in size with a muscular build. Its powerful bite and claws are formidable weapons and its thick hide provides substantial protection, allowing it to withstand most attacks. The ammit is also a dangerous magic-user, possessing the ability to bestow curses, inflict diseases, and summon plagues upon its foes. In addition, the ammit can paralyze a creature with fear by its glare alone. The ammit's magical abilities, combined with its physical strength, make the demon an instrument for suffering and despair. Traits Hold Breath. The ammit can hold its breath for 1 hour. Magic Resistance. The ammit has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The ammit makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. It can use Devour Heart, Baleful Glare. or Spellcasting in place of its Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the ammit can't use its Bite attack on another target. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Devour Heart . Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated creature or one creature grappled by the ammit. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, the creature's heart is devoured by the ammit, the creature dies, and the ammit regains hit points equal to the half the maximum hit points of the creature. Unless the ammit is slain within 1 minute of this action, the creature's soul is sent to the Abyss and only a wish spell followed by a true resurrection spell can restore the creature to life. Constructs and Demons are immune to this effect. Baleful Glare. The ammit targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage and is frightened of the ammit for 1 minute. A frightened creature is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the ammit's Baleful Glare for the next 24 hours. Teleport. The ammit magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The ammit casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: darkness, detect magic, detect thoughts 2/day each: bestow curse, contagion, dispel magic, insect plague, locate creature 1/day each: harm

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

