# Greater Sarimanok

**description**: These very rare noble specimens reach a height of 10 feet and have tails that are 15 feet long. Greater sarimanoks personally serve the deities of the Upper Planes. Sarimanok (Sareema-nouk) The wondrous sarimanok is a shrewd and benevolent celestial creature that frequently travels the Outer Planes, the Ethereal Plane, and the Material Plane. It resembles a giant, 6-foot tall, majestic red junglefowl with a multicolored plumage. It has a razor-sharp beak, spurs, and talons that are as hard as mithral. The comb on its head blazes with a fiery radiance, and the feathery sickles of its 10-foot long tail radiate a variety of elemental and magical energies. The sarimanok is seen as a symbol of good fortune, health, and bountiful harvests. Celestial Stewards. Sarimanoks are native to The Seven Heavens of Mount Celestia but they can also be found wandering Arcadia, Bytopia, Elysium, the Beastlands, and in the ancient jungles of the Material Plane. Each sarimanok works for a specific, powerful angel or archon. They primarily serve as stewards or guides that help travelers journey through the Outer Planes but they also act as emissaries, messengers, and ushers. They are most often sent by their masters to bring aid to their worshippers whose lands may be suffering from severe droughts or plagues. Sometimes they are sent to guard sacred relics or holy places. If an angel or archon requires to speak to someone directly in person, perhaps to give it a quest, it may send its sarimanok to fetch them. Divine Duelists. Sarimanoks always enjoy physical combat and often spar with archons, couatls, and guardinals. They even join friendly combat and training tournaments held in the Upper Planes. Their powerful beaks and talons can pierce and shred the toughest of armors. The deadly feather sickles of their main tails can cause different harmful effects, depending on what hits a target - from inflicting a specific type of energy damage, turning a victim to stone, and to banishing one to a different plane of existence. Aside from their melee skills, they can also cast potent spells and unleash a magical crow that aids, protects, and emboldens the sarimanok's allies that hear it. Traits Illumination. The sarimanok sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. Magic Resistance. The sarimanok has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The sarimanok's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The sarimanok makes three attacks: one with its Beak, one with its Talons, and one with its Prismatic Tail. Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage. Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d8 + 3) slashing damage. Prismatic Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: Roll a d8 to determine which color tail affects the target. 1. Red. 35 (10d6) fire damage. 2. Orange. 35 (10d6) acid damage. 3. Yellow. 35 (10d6) lightning damage. 4. Green. 35 (10d6) poison damage. 5. Blue. 35 (10d6) cold damage. 6. Indigo. The target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become petrified for 24 hours. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 7. Violet. The target must make DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be transported to another plane of existence of the GM's choosing. (Typically, a creature that is on a plane that isn't its home plane is banished home, while other creatures are usually cast into the Astral or Ethereal planes.) A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a success, the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied. 8. Special. The target is struck by two tails. Roll twice more, rerolling any 8. Spellcasting. The sarimanok casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: detect evil and good 3/day each: bless (no concentration required), dawn, plane shift 1/day each: control weather, heal, prismatic spray Sarimanok's Crow (1/Day). The sarimanok emits a magical crow. Each creature of the sarimanok's choice that is within 120 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by Sarimanok's Crow gains 10 temporary hit points and advantage on initiative rolls, becomes immune to being charmed and frightened, and can't be put to sleep by magic for 1 minute.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

