# Greater Phantom

**description**: A phantom appears as a 7-foot tall vaguely-humanoid-shaped shadow with intensely glowing red eyes. It is a restless undead spirit filled with hatred and malice. It moves only under the cover of darkness and always avoids the sunlight. Violent Origins. One becomes a phantom when two requirements are met. First, the phantom must have been a murderous psychopath who died a violent death before it could fulfill a goal it had in life, such as protecting someone it obsessed over, slaying every member of an enemy clan, or as grim as completing its macabre art collection of a hundred corpses. Second, its remains were not burned or buried properly. Bound Spirit. Upon returning from death as a phantom, the insane spirit seeks to complete its goal. However, because the phantom is bound to its place of death, it cannot move more than a mile away from it. Powerless, it does what it could do to satisfy its obsession: it waits and looks for new victims within its area that might have enough similarities with its real target and satisfy its compulsions. Evil Reborn. To permanently destroy a phantom, one must first find and burn its remains or give it a proper burial ritual. If not, a destroyed phantom will return after 666 days, continue its mayhem, and seek vengeance upon those that defeated it. Traits Incorporeal Movement. The phantom can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The phantom takes 5 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Actions Multiattack. The phantom uses Insidious Touch twice. It can use Death Mark or Deathly Visage in place of one use of Insidious Touch. Insidious Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) necrotic damage plus 9 (2d8) psychic damage. Death Mark. The phantom targets a creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target is magically imprinted with the phantom's sigil, which appears on the forehead of the creature. While the creature has this mark, the phantom always knows its exact location and has advantage on attack rolls against it. The mark lasts for 1 minute. If the phantom hits a marked creature with its Insidious Touch, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target is reduced to 0 hit points. Constructs, Fiends, and Undead are immune to this effect. The phantom can only have one marked target at a time. If the phantom uses Death Mark while it already has a marked target, the previous Death Mark ends. Casting remove curse, dispel evil, greater restoration, or a similar spell on a marked target ends the effect. Deathly Visage. Each non-undead creature within 30 feet of the phantom that can see it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. If the save fails by 5 or more, the target is reduced to 0 hit points. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this phantom's Deathly Visage for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Shadow Jump. The phantom teleports, along with any equipment is it wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Both the space it teleports from and the space it teleports to must be in dim light or darkness. Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the phantom takes the Hide action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

