# Greater Infernal Couatl

**description**: Once noble and benevolent, the infernal couatl has succumbed to the allure of darkness and is now a sinister perversion of the couatl's original purpose. Often under the guise of being a divine guardian, the infernal couatl exploits and corrupts the innocent for its own selfish gains. With a talent for twisting truths and manipulating perceptions, the infernal couatl derives satisfaction from watching its victims descend into darkness, all while skillfully concealing its own malevolent nature. Older infernal couatls see themselves as gods, exhibiting apocalyptic powers and exerting control over civilizations. Infernal Creatures Infernal creatures are diabolical fiends bearing the taint of devil's blood. Most are born naturally with a devil lineage, but a few, whether willingly or by coersion, entered into a contract with an arch devil. Infernals usually have dark or crimson skins, and some sport short horns on their foreheads. A rare few exude an aura of fire, while others can breath hellfire. Devious Tricksters. Deceptive and highly manipulative, these fiendish entities possess a propensity for trickery and subterfuge, often using disguises or the persona of their normally good-aligned kin. Infernals navigate the realms with a calculated and elusive presence, adept at ensnaring the unsuspecting in their web of deceit. Collecting souls as their ultimate goal, these creatures embody the very essence of malevolence and treachery. Traits Infernal Fire Aura. At the start of each of the infernal couatl’s turns, each creature within 5 feet of it takes 5 (1d10) fire damage, and flammable objects in the aura that aren’t being worn or carried ignite. A creature that touches the infernal couatl or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 5 (1d10) fire damage. In addition, a creature that takes fire damage must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. Magic Resistance. The infernal couatl has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The infernal couatl's weapon attacks are magical. Shielded Mind. The infernal couatl is immune to scrying and to any effect that would sense its emotions, read its thoughts, or detect its location. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 24 hours. Until this poison ends, the target is unconscious. Another creature can use an action to shake the target awake. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one Large or smaller creature. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the infernal couatl can't use its Constrict attack on another target. Spellcasting. The infernal couatl casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: detect evil and good, detect magic, detect thoughts 3/day each: blindness/deafness, command, guiding bolt, inflict wounds, major image 1/day each: contagion, fire storm, hold monster, scrying Change Shape. The infernal couatl magically transforms into a humanoid or beast while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the infernal couatl is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Reactions Shield (3/Day). The infernal couatl casts shield , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

