# Greater Jack-o'-Lantern

**description**: A jack-o'-lantern resembles a horrifying 7-foot-tall scarecrow with gangly limbs and a head that of a carved and lit pumpkin. It haunts the edges of remote towns and seldomly used forest paths and trails, terrorizing townsfolk and lonely travelers. It particularly enjoys tormenting and toying with its victims for a prolonged period before murdering them. Spirit-Powered Constructs. The jack-o'-lantern is an animated construct, powered by the bound spirit of evil, mischievous, and greedy humanoids. It is said that the first jack-o'-lantern was born from a bard who outwitted a powerful fey it earlier made a pact with. After the bard got older and was about to die of old age, the same fey captured his soul and infused it with a pumpkin-headed scarecrow. The peace of eternal rest stolen from it, the spirit became insane and turned its rage towards those it could. Greater and Legendary Versions. Witches and powerful fey such as hags usually bind jack-o'-lanterns with the spirits of those who broke agreements or tried to trick them, turning them into loyal minions who do their bidding. When a jack-o'-lantern is freed from its servitude and left to wander, especially if the bound spirit was that of a bard, it may continue to grow in power and knowledge. If left unchecked, become a dangerous threat to communities. Traits Illumination. The jack-o'-lantern sheds bright light in a 5-­foot radius and dim light for an additional 5 feet. The jack-o'-lantern can use a bonus action to switch its Illumination active or off. Actions Multiattack. The jack-o'-lantern uses Terrifying Glare. It then makes two Claw attacks or uses Spellcasting. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage and the target has disadvantage on saving throws until the end of the jack-o'-lantern's next turn. Terrifying Glare. If its Illumination is active, the jack-o'-lantern targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the jack-o'-lantern, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be magically frightened until the end of the jack-o'-lantern’s next turn. The frightened target is paralyzed. Dreadfire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The jack-o'-lantern exhales nightmarish fire in a 30-­foot cone. Each creature in the area must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 18 (4d8) fire damage plus 18 (4d8) psychic damage and is frightened until the end of the jack-o'-lantern's next turn. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. Spellcasting. The jack-o'-lantern casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: dancing lights, minor illusion, vicious mockery (4d4) 2/day each: charm person, entangle, hideous laughter, phantasmal killer, suggestion 1/day: irresistible dance, mislead Bonus Actions Misty Step (Recharge 5–6). The jack-o'-lantern teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Reactions Unnerving Barb. The jack-o'-lantern imposes disadvantage on an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw made by a visible creature within 30 feet of it, provided the creature can hear and understand the jack-o'-lantern.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

