# Greater Couatl

**description**: Greater couatls are the larger and powerful cousins of the common couatl and are the natural leaders and champions of a couatl community. They sometimes serve as messengers of the gods and are sometimes sent on secret missions to support and or rescue heroes in need. They seldom show their true form, often appearing in a form that they believe is more comfortable to their audience. Traits Flyby. The coautl doesn't provoke an opportunity attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach. Magic Weapons. The coautl's weapon attacks are magical. Shielded Mind. The coautl is immune to scrying and to any effect that would sense its emotions, read its thoughts, or detect its location. Twist Free. The coautl automatically makes its saving throws against paralysis and being restrained at the end of its turn as long as it is not unconscious. Actions Multiattack. The coautl makes two attacks: one with its Bite and one to Constrict. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 24 hours. Until this poison ends, the target is unconscious. Another creature can use an action to shake the target awake. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one Large or smaller creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the coautl can't use Constrict on another target Spellcasting. The coautl casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect evil and good, detect magic, detect thoughts 3/day each: bless, create food and water, cure wounds, lesser restoration, protection from poison, sanctuary 2/day each: dawn, dream (as an action), greater restoration, scrying (as an action) 1/day each: resurrection (as an action), temple of the gods (as an action) Change Shape. The coautl magically transforms into a humanoid or beast, or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. If the new form has a Bite attack, the coautl can use its Bite in that form This transformation ends if the coautl is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Radiant Burst (Recharge 5–6). The coautl emits a burst of radiant energy. Each ally within 20 feet of the coautl regains 22 (5d8) hit points. Each enemy within 20 feet of the couatl must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Bonus Actions Divine Word (1/Day). The coautl casts divine word , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18). Ethereal Jaunt. The coautl magically shifts from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane, or vice versa. Reactions Shield (3/Day). The coautl casts shield , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. Legendary Actions The coautl can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The coautl regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bite. The coautl makes a Bite attack. Teleport. The coautl teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The coautl uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

