# Greater Cadaver Collector

**description**: The greater cadaver collector is an ancient juggernaut of war. Only a few were made due to its exorbitant costs and difficulty to create, but they were probably worth the trouble as they still exist, roaming the ancient battlefields of the Lower Planes for eons. Both demons and devils give them a wide berth, lest they get added on to the mighty construct’s grisly collection. War Machine. In battle, the greater cadaver collector can summon multiple specters for aid as it uses its massive iron fists to bludgeon opponents into mush. Creatures unable to resist its paralyzing breath are crushed and trampled by its massive stomps. Those unfortunate enough to get captured suffer a worse fate: getting impaled on the construct’s armor spikes and left there to suffer and slowly die as they bleed out. Traits Magic Resistance. The cadaver collector has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Unusual Nature. The cadaver collector doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The cadaver collector makes two Slam attacks. If the cadaver collector is grappling a creature, the cadaver collector can also use Impale once. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 16 (3d10) necrotic damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the cadaver collector can't use its one of its Slam attacks on another target. Impale. The cadaver collector attempts to impale a creature it has grappled. The creature must succeed on a DC 21 Strength saving throw or take 16 (2d8 + 7) piercing damage and 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and be restrained (escape DC 17). While restrained, the target takes 9 (2d8) piercing damage and 9 (2d8) necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns. The cadaver collector can impale up to 8 Medium creatures, 1 Large and 6 Medium creatures, 2 Large and 4 Medium creatures, 3 Large and 2 Medium creatures, or 4 Large creatures. Crushing Stride. The cadaver collector moves up to its speed in a straight line. During this move, it can enter Large or smaller creatures' spaces. A creature whose space the cadaver collector enters must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is pushed 5 feet to the nearest space out of the cadaver collector's path. On a failed save, the creature falls prone and takes 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage and 16 (3d10) necrotic damage. If the cadaver collector remains in the prone creature's space, the creature is also restrained until it's no longer in the same space as the cadaver collector. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 21 Strength check. On a success, the creature is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the cadaver collector and is no longer restrained. Paralyzing Breath (Recharge 5–6). The cadaver collector releases paralyzing gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a successful DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. A paralyzed creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with a success. Bonus Actions Summon Specters (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The cadaver collector calls up the enslaved spirits of those it has slain; 2d6 specters (without Sunlight Sensitivity; see MM, pg. 279) arise in unoccupied spaces within 15 feet of the cadaver collector. The specters act right after the cadaver collector on the same initiative count and fight until they're destroyed. They disappear when the cadaver collector is destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

