# Green Duwende

**description**: A green duwende appears covered in a coat of verdant fur, with tufts of greenish-white hair and tiny antlers growing from its head. It is a kind, friendly, and playful creature and often acts as shepherds to animals, treating their wounds and curing them of poison. The green duwende will only reveal itself to creatures it believes are good-natured, especially children which it adores, although it will not hesitate to aid anyone it meets that is wounded or sick. A green duwende helps like-minded druids and reveres diwatas, serving them as scouts and emissaries. Duwendes (Dwen-deh) Duwendes are tiny fey beings that are distantly related to gnomes. They stand no more than 6 inches tall and have bulbous noses, rat-like ears, and furry, leathery skin. Duwendes are carefree, inquisitive, self-indulgent, skittish, and whimsical creatures who live in the undergrowth of forests, fields, hills, and jungles. They can cast spells and converse with animals and plants. They are fond of mundane items, keepsakes, and tools humanoids use and go out of their way to collect them, sometimes sneaking into people's homes. They usually keep themselves hidden and invisible, but their reckless behaviors often place them at risk. There are three types of duwendes - dark, gray, and green. While each behaves differently, they generally tolerate each other's presence. Earth Attuned. Although they aren't earth fey, duwendes appear to have a connection to the Elemental Plane of Earth and are cordial with creatures native or have strong ties to it, such as earth elementals, galeb duhr, and korreds. Duwendes build their homes underground, forming large mounds rising from the earth. Unfortunately, their homes resemble large termite hills, and many passersby have foolishly tried to destroy them, earning the ire of the duwende who resides in it. The offending creatures find themselves blinded, cursed, or unable to stop themselves from having endless fits of laughter. Luck Giver. Duwendes are magical beings of chaos and have a natural ability to affect another person's luck. However, it depends on the duwende's nature and whim and its relationship to the person, on what kind of luck - good or bad, it will bestow to it. Traits Magic Resistance. The duwende has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Speak with Beasts and Plants. The duwende can communicate with beasts and plants as if they and the anito shared a language. Actions Sling. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 15/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Superior Invisibility. The duwende magically turns invisible until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the duwende wears or carries is invisible with it. Spellcasting . The duwende casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12): At will: druidcraft, magic stone, mending 3/day: entangle, goodberry, healing word 1/day: lesser restoration, protection from poison Reactions Bestow Luck (3/Day). When a creature the duwende can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll, an ability check, or a saving throw, the duwende rolls a d10 and adds it to the result. The duwende can make this choice after the roll is made but before the outcome is determined.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 1/4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

