# Grendol Chieftain

**description**: Grendols are loathsome, hulking giants closely related to ogres and trolls. They stand between 10 and 11 feet tall and weigh a thousand pounds. They often have misshapen heads, bulbous noses, and tusks growing from their oversized jaws. Bitter Brutes. Like ogres, grendols are ill-tempered, greedy, and stupid. They hate and envy civilized folk and resent the joy and happiness they show during their festivities. Due to their very sensitive hearing, they particularly detest the music and noise from such celebrations. Even when grendols are a mile away, such sounds are strong enough to drive them into a murderous frenzy. Savage Tormentors. Grendols are cruel bullies who love nothing more than grab intelligent folk, tear their limbs apart, and laugh at their screams before devouring them alive. While grendols would eat anything, they prefer the taste of human, dwarf, elf, and halfling flesh. Monstrous Kin. Grendols live a nomadic lifestyle and typically make camp in caves, ruins, thick forests, hills, mountains, and swamps. They usually keep the same company but they can also be found living with ogres, ettins, trolls, and hill giants. Grendols fear and revere hags, serving them as loyal minions. It is said that grendols are the spawns of hags after mating with a humanoid but it has not been substantiated. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The grendol has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing and smell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the grendol fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The grendol regains 5 hit points at the start of its turn. If the grendol takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the grendol's next turn. The grendol dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Sensitive Hearing. The grendol has disadvantage on saving throws made against being deafened. Actions Multiattack. The grendol makes two melee attacks. If the grendol is grappling a creature, the grendol can also make one Bite attack. Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the grendol can automatically hit the target with its Slam attack, can't attack another target with one of its Slam attacks, and can't make Greatclub attacks. Fling. One object held or creature that is smaller than the grendol and is grappled by the grendol is thrown up to 30 feet towards a target space and knocked prone. If a thrown creature strikes a solid surface, the creature takes 5 bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the creature is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes the same damage and is knocked prone. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage. Legendary Actions The grendol can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The grendol regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The grendol moves up to its speed. Batter. The grendol makes a Slam attack or uses Fling. Wallop (Costs 2 Actions). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of of the grendol's next turn. If the target fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it is knocked unconscious for 1 minute. The unconscious target repeats the saving throw if it takes damage and at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

