# Grendol Berserker

**description**: Grendols are loathsome, hulking giants closely related to ogres and trolls. They stand between 10 and 11 feet tall and weigh a thousand pounds. They often have misshapen heads, bulbous noses, and tusks growing from their oversized jaws. Bitter Brutes. Like ogres, grendols are ill-tempered, greedy, and stupid. They hate and envy civilized folk and resent the joy and happiness they show during their festivities. Due to their very sensitive hearing, they particularly detest the music and noise from such celebrations. Even when grendols are a mile away, such sounds are strong enough to drive them into a murderous frenzy. Savage Tormentors. Grendols are cruel bullies who love nothing more than grab intelligent folk, tear their limbs apart, and laugh at their screams before devouring them alive. While grendols would eat anything, they prefer the taste of human, dwarf, elf, and halfling flesh. Monstrous Kin. Grendols live a nomadic lifestyle and typically make camp in caves, ruins, thick forests, hills, mountains, and swamps. They usually keep the same company but they can also be found living with ogres, ettins, trolls, and hill giants. Grendols fear and revere hags, serving them as loyal minions. It is said that grendols are the spawns of hags after mating with a humanoid but it has not been substantiated. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The grendol has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing and smell. Reckless. At the start of its turn, the grendol can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Regeneration. The grendol regains 5 hit points at the start of its turn. If the grendol takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the grendol's next turn. The grendol dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Sensitive Hearing. The grendol has disadvantage on saving throws made against being deafened. Actions Multiattack. The grendol uses War Cry. It then makes two melee attacks. If the grendol is grappling a creature, the grendol can also make one Bite attack. Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the grendol can automatically hit the target with its Slam attack, can't attack another target with one of its Slam attacks, and can't make Greatclub attacks. Fling. One object held or creature that is smaller than the grendol and is grappled by the grendol is thrown up to 30 feet towards a target space and knocked prone. If a thrown creature strikes a solid surface, the creature takes 5 bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the creature is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes the same damage and is knocked prone. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage. War Cry (Recharge 5–6). The grendol emits a terrifying battle cry. Each enemy creature within 30 feet of the grendol that can hear it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the grendol for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this grendol’s War Cry for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

