# Grim Champion of Desolation

**description**: I remember my first encounter with this champion. All of a sudden, everything around me went painfully silent. The ringing of blades, the rustle of clothing, the hum of magic—all gone. It was like I was stuck, observing the world through a frosted pane of glass. We fought. I survived. I couldn't speak for days afterward. Jyn Corvis, a former adventurer, might have been the first person to draw the Skull card from a Deck of Many Things and be slain by the avatar of death. Even Jyn doesn’t know for sure, as that was so long ago that she’s forgotten almost everything about her former life. Jyn’s existence over so many centuries has left her in tortured misery, and now nihilism is all that drives her. More than any other member of the Grim Harrow, Jyn is desperate to destroy the deck and end her painful existence. If she could, she’d take the entire multiverse with her. The Grim Champion of Desolation rides a malevolent draconic beast with pale, leathery wings and emaciated skin; this mount uses the wyvern stat block, but it is an Undead instead of a Dragon. An eerie, hollow silence heralds the champion’s arrival. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the champion fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The champion makes two Leeching Blade attacks and uses Hollow Void. Leeching Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage plus 33 (6d10) cold damage, and the champion regains 10 hit points. Hollow Void. The champion summons a hungering rift around a creature it can see within 120 feet of itself. The creature must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 49 (11d8) force damage and has the stunned condition until the start of the champion’s next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage only. If a creature is reduced to 0 hit points by this effect, the creature dies, and its body crumbles to dust. Bonus Actions Step into Nothing (Recharge 4–6). The champion, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, has the invisible condition and teleports to an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet of itself. The champion remains invisible until the start of its next turn or immediately after it deals damage. Legendary Actions The champion can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The champion regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Crush. The champion unleashes a burst of crushing force on a creature it can see within 30 feet of itself. The creature must succeed on a DC 22 Strength saving throw or take 14 (4d6) force damage and have the prone condition. Fearsome Pursuit. The champion moves up to its speed or commands its mount to move up to its speed. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. Nullify (Costs 2 Actions). The champion emits a magic wave in a 60-foot cone. Every spell of 5th level or lower ends on creatures and objects of the champion’s choice in that area.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 27234
- Challenge Rating: 25

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Book of Many Things

