# Grim Champion of Bloodshed

**description**: Well, that's not quite correct, either. Rather, I fear the sheer destruction those three grim champions leave in their wake. Their lives might be condemned to undeath and annihilation, but then they stampede across the multiverse, violently killing so many innocents whose stories have yet to be written. I want to empathize with them; I've tried to put myself in their places and understand their motives. But I can't. They're simply abhorent. Wynemar Brack was once a farmer, but mercenaries in a local war razed her fields and sacked her village. In desperation, she yielded to the clever patter of a traveling fortune teller and drew from a Deck of Many Things . The avatar of death slew her in a flash. That was many centuries ago, and Wynemar is now a powerful and bloodthirsty Undead commander of the Grim Harrow. Wreathed in searing fire, Wynemar embodies the havoc of violence and war. She rides a flaming steed that uses the nightmare stat block but is an Undead instead of a Fiend. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the champion fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The champion makes four Blazing Morningstar attacks. It can replace one of these attacks with Blade Storm, if available. Blazing Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage. Blade Storm (Recharge 5–6). The champion conjures a churning storm of spectral blades that fills a 20-foot cube centered on a point it can see within 120 feet of itself. The storm lasts until the start of the champion’s next turn. While the storm is active, the area of the storm is difficult terrain. Whenever a creature enters the storm for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) slashing damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The champion can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The champion regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Furious Pursuit. The champion moves up to its speed or commands its mount to move up to its speed. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. Induce Violence. The champion targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of itself. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or immediately make one melee weapon attack against another creature of the champion’s choice that is within the target’s reach. If no creature is within the target’s reach or if the target has the incapacitated condition, the target instead takes 11 (2d10) psychic damage. Menace (Costs 2 Actions). The champion chooses any number of creatures it can see within 30 feet of itself. Each target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or have the frightened condition until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 27234
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Book of Many Things

