# Grizzat Swarm

**description**: A grizzat is a bulbous red and black creature nearly two feet long that hovers on thrumming wings. Six-inch-long legs ending in pincers tread the air. Sprouting from the top of the brain-like body are six hairy eye stalks, each ending in a bulbous black eye like a spider’s. In the center of its body, an overly large maw opens and closes, filled with miniature serrated teeth. Swarm Cycle. Grizzats evolved from the need to survive harsh extremes, short brief seasons requiring rapid growth, an urgency to living, and a life cycle that spawns multitudes in the hope that the strongest few survive. They begin their life as part of a swarm of young bursting forth from subterranean egg chambers. Once born, the swarm moves off like a plague of locusts, devouring everything in its path. After just seven days, the stronger members of the swarm have grown to adulthood. Growing from a thumb-sized insect to a two-foot tall, 10-pound adult, they group with fellow adults in small numbers, detaching themselves from their birthing swarm to become a nesting group. Grizzats still in their swarms teem in the thousands like tiny grasshopper-sized brain-bugs stripping all edible matter with their ravenous mouths as they pass. Nesting Chamber. Nesting groups seek appropriate clearings, to maximize their exposure to the warmth of the sun, and preferably with soft earth into which they burrow and hollow out their egg chamber. This creates a termite mound above ground per adult in the nesting group. The mound is both hollow and tall, its intent is to be the exit for the newly hatched swarm, releasing the swarm high into the air and so avoiding ground predators at the moment of birth. Survivors. Grizzats can survive cataclysms that wipe out other forms of life, even including the shattering of worlds due to planetary collisions and similar catastrophic impacts. In such post-cataclysm environments, grizzats become a threat to the survival of all other species. Due to their prolific reproductive cycle, the intelligent species actively hunt and destroy their nesting chambers whenever possible to exterminate this threat. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatBlock1, li.StatBlock1, div.StatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1 Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.StatBlock1Char {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1 Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: swarm of small aberrations
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

