# Gyloof Gullion

**description**: Grand Overseer Even from a young age, Gyloof saw the wasteful excess engineered by the powerful. Rule by fear, the press of uncertainty and anxiety, the labyrinthian dance of subterfuge: these things annoyed the pragmatic boy to no end. Surely there was a more efficient way to power. But voicing such concerns would be foolhardy at the best of times, and deadly if not handled with care. Lesser nobles and courtiers to the house would suffer Gyloof’s probing questions, but only insomuch as they must suffer the arrogant male child of Holoth’s ruler. Too often such encounters would lead to a chastisement at the hands of the clergy, and young Gyloof soon found fit to keep his thoughts to himself. As a young man, Gyloof discovered solace in a remote drow monastery. No less ruthless or cunning than the nobles of Holoth’s court, these monks practiced an even, stoic temperament that infuriated drow nobles used to fear and supplication from their servants. Gyloof channeled their teachings into his own life. He learned much from the monastery: how to elicit compliance through pain, how to intimidate through subtle body language, the limits of a mortal body, and conservation of energy to effort. While around him chaos reigned, Gyloof drew power from structured cause and effect. When he returned to his family, he did so with the resolve to carve a place for himself. He could not control his siblings and their ilk, but he could instill order on those over whom his house held power. His gambit bore fruit immediately; Maelora placed him in charge of House Gullion’s slave force. Where once slaves were recalcitrant, bordering even on insurrection, they quickly became compliant and grateful for their lives. Soon his reputation as a taskmaster grew throughout Holoth. Gyloof’s effectiveness as a slave master is defined by his unique approach to control over free-willed individuals. Mirroring the teachings of the monks, he establishes control by allowing them to control themselves: a system that rewards compliance and group effort, while punishing self-preservation and individualism. Gyloof speaks infrequently, but his slaves shudder when he speaks the words, “Who is to blame for this one’s behavior?” All know the answer is the lot of them. Slaves that exhibit exceptional leadership in compliance are granted the temporary title of Regimental Sergeant Major. These slaves become extensions of Gyloof’s will, instilling within several different slave groups the tenets of discipline and cooperation that allows them to succeed under their own efforts. Never are these leaders allowed to hold their positions of power for too long, for such individualism breaks with the teachings a successful slave must adhere to, but it is the slaves themselves that manage these promotions and their eventual demotions, often in response to a raised eyebrow from Gyloof. But no system of control is perfect, and there are always new slaves who are not yet indoctrinated. On the rare occasion a riot erupts, Gyloof can be found in the midst of the fray with a terse aplomb. With stoic confidence, Gyloof conducts combat with seemingly otherworldly martial ability, rendering his opponents disabled or dead with equal effort. Gyloof’s physical prowess has itself become something of a legend amongst the drow of Holoth. Yet workers are a valuable commodity and Gyloof usually delivers non-lethal damage, which often gives newly-arrived slaves a misplaced sense of security. This is an out-and-out error, and the first slave in a new batch who fails to perform is used to demonstrate the folly of such thoughts. In front of every other slave, they are matched against Gyloof in an unarmed contest. The fight is to unconsciousness, a rule that Gyloof vehemently adheres to (these are always one-sided events in the drow’s favor in any case). The loser is then restored to wakefulness and sacrificed immediately to the Great Mother. Gyloof has yet to lose such a match, a fact known by all long-term slaves; surreptitious betting often takes place during these contests, not on whether Gyloof will win, but how quickly and what method he will employ to do so. The young man often uses these fights to introduce some new method he has learned, or some previously unseen combination of blows, just to make it clear to all those under him that he will always be one step ahead of them, drow and slave alike.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

