# Ha-Naga

**description**: The malevolent ha-naga is a naga of immense size and is venerated by all evil nagas. It appears as a 100-foot long colossal serpent with the head of a beautiful human that has slight reptilian facial features. Its unique scales have no set colors; instead, they shimmer and fade, constantly adjusting to the colors and textures of its surroundings, causing the naga to almost appear invisible. Arcane Juggernaut. The ha-naga is a powerful being with several supernatural abilities. Its mere presence alone can cause all those near it to become enthralled by it. The ha-naga is also a potent magic-user, able to rain down spells of death and destruction. Even though it has no wings, the ha-naga has the natural ability to fly, its body smoothly undulating through the air as if swimming underwater. It uses its flight to maximum advantage, casting spells from afar while remaining a difficult target thanks to its camouflaging scales. Against more powerful opponents, the ha-naga will wrap around them and constrict, squeezing the air out of them while making them vulnerable to the ha-naga’s spells. Ancient God-Kings. While it is not clear where ha-nagas originated from, it is rumored that they were once the most ambitious servants of an ancient god-like progenitor race. These naga servants were entrusted with eons worth of secret magical research. After their masters died out, these nagas dabbled with dark rituals gleaned from the materials given to them, hoping to gain more power. While most died or were driven insane as a result of the rituals, a few were successfully transformed into ha-nagas. This handful of ha-nagas then divided and led the surviving races and ruled over them, each building new civilizations that lasted for thousands of years until its eventual collapse. As time passed, the ha-nagas dwindled and were largely forgotten. This was deliberate though, as ha-nagas became increasingly paranoid, isolated, and secretive, lurking deep within the ruins of the once-great cities they ruled. As they observed new nations rise and advance to great lengths from afar, they seethed with anger and envy, appalled at the ambitions of these young lesser races that seem to mock and disrespect the ha-naga’s legacy. Scheming Tyrants. Due to their near god-like powers, the ha-nagas have become arrogant, narcissistic, and oppressive. They perceive all other creatures as lesser beings to be consumed, dominated, and enslaved. It sees advanced nations like Thay, Amn, and Cormantyr and organizations such as the Lord’s Alliance and the Harpers as blasphemous threats and schemes with other evil creatures, such as dragons, fiends, other nagas, and yuan-ti, to bring them down. A Ha-Naga's Lair The ha-naga prefers temperate to warm regions, living in ancient forests, high mountains, and wild, overgrown jungles. It usually occupies the ruins of forgotten civilizations, often those that it has personally brought down or ruled over, or treasure-filled lairs of adult dragons that the ha-naga has slain. The ha-naga’s sanctum is often the former center of the society, such as a temple, royal court, or amphitheater, with its floors overflowing with the ha-naga’s accumulated wealth. Dark nagas and spirit nagas guard the inner rooms while lesser nagas and other reptilian monsters patrol the outer chambers and periphery of the ha-naga’s lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the ha-naga takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the ha-naga can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The ha-naga targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the creature is paralyzed. Powerful winds buffet the lair in a 60-foot radius around the ha-naga. Each creature other than the ha-naga in that area must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The ha-naga targets one friendly reptilian creature it can sense within 60 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the ha-naga, it can use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one melee or ranged attack. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary brown ha-naga’s lair is warped by the ha-naga’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Once per day, the ha-naga can alter the weather in a 6-mile radius centered on its lair. The ha-naga doesn’t need to be outdoors; otherwise the effect is identical to the control weather spell. Fog lightly obscures the land within 6 miles of the lair. Reptiles within 1 mile of the ha-naga’s lair serve as the ha-naga’s eyes and ears. If the ha-naga dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Immortal Nature. A naga doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Captivating Presence. Any creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the naga must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed by the naga for 1 minute or until the creature is farther than 60 feet away from it. On a successful save, the creature becomes immune to the naga's Captivating Presence for 24 hours. Chameleon Scales. Wisdom (Perception) checks made to see the naga have disadvantage, and the naga has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide, as the color of its scales constantly shifts to match its background, providing perfect camouflage. Greater Spell Penetration. When the ha-naga casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the naga fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rejuvenation. If it dies, the naga returns to life in 1d6 days and regains all its hit points. Only a wish spell can prevent this trait from functioning. Magic Resistance. The naga has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The naga makes two melee attacks: one with its Bite and one to Constrict. Alternatively, it can make one Constrict attack and cast one spell that takes 1 action to cast. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) piercing damage. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (4d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 21). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and has disadvantage on saving throws made against the naga's spells, and the naga can't constrict another target. Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The naga casts one of the following spells, requiring only verbal components and Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks): At will: fire bolt (4d10), light, mage hand, message, prestidigitation, thunderclap (4d6) 2/day each: banishment, counterspell, cone of cold, dispel magic, misty step, shield 1/day each: disintegrate, prismatic spray, earthquake, psychic scream Legendary Actions The naga can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The naga regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The naga moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Coil Whip (Costs 2 Actions). The naga whips its tail around it. Each creature within 15 feet of the naga must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 20 (4d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage, pushed up to 10 feet away and be knocked prone. Stinger (Costs 3 Actions). The naga attacks with its Stinger.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

