# Hag, Wood

**description**: In the rainforest's mist-draped half-light, a rotting, mossy tree stump mutters to itself. The decomposing mass rises, unfolding from its camouflage of ferns, mosses, and mulch, revealing the short, powerfully-built crone underneath. The wood hag resembles a disheveled, ancient woman. The hag's pallid skin is mottled by patches of mold and clusters of tiny mushrooms. Her clothing consists of draped mosses, lichens, and fern fronds, and it crawls with slugs, grubs, and earthworms. Witch of the Wilds. Wood hags haunt fog-wreathed rainforests, steaming, mountain-top jungles, and murky mangrove swamps. Their homes are moist, moldering places of fern and fungus, snail, and shadow. Wood hags carve out lairs within great, rotting logs, build camouflaged treehouses, or dig rabbit-like warrens into forest floors. Monstrous Matron. Wood hags are friends to cueyatl (see Creature Codex ), shambling mounds, and similar denizens of the dark and damp areas in which they live. Wood hags also create allies and servants from available materials, constructing witchalders (see) and mud golems (see Creature Codex ) to do their bidding. One with the Woods. While the hag remains motionless in forest terrain, she is indistinguishable from an old, decomposing log or tree stump. Magic Resistance. The wood hag has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Speak with Beasts and Plants. The wood hag can communicate with Beasts and Plants as if they shared a language. Woodland Walk. Difficult terrain composed of plants doesn't cost the wood hag extra movement. In addition, she can pass through plants without being slowed by them and without taking damage from them if they have thorns, spines, or a similar hazard. Actions Multiattack. The wood hag makes two Claw or Toxic Splinter attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 18 (4d8) poison damage. Toxic Splinter. Ranged Spell Attack : +9 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) poison damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the target is paralyzed. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature within 5 feet of the target can take its action to remove the splinter with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check, ending the poisoned condition on the target. Spellcasting. The wood hag casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: charm person, entangle 3/day: plant growth 1/day: contagion Bonus Actions Nettling Word. The wood hag heckles, mocks, or jeers at one creature she can see within 30 feet of her. If the creature can hear and understand the hag, it must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw or become enraged until the end of its next turn. While enraged, a creature has advantage on melee attack rolls, is unable to distinguish friend from foe, and must move to and attack the nearest creature other than the hag. If no other creature is near enough to move to and attack, the enraged creature stalks off in a random direction. Attack rolls against an enraged creature have advantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

