# Hag Moth Caterpillar

**description**: "In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass…” — Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll In poisonous mushroom groves, the hag moth thrives. One might venture into such places, foraging for fungi and spot clusters of shimmering dew, only to realize too late that the location is a hag moth’s lair. The dewy eggs of a hag moth develop into caterpillars with the appearance of spun glass. A hag moth caterpillar feasts on fungus deadly to other creatures before weaving a cocoon, where it transforms into its winged adult form then leaves to find its own grove. An adventurer lucky enough to survive an encounter with a hag moth in its lair may discover the rare hag moth mushroom. These large fungi fetch a handsome price at a market. With the right tools, they can be ground into a powder or mixed with other tonics to cure mind-altering effects such as charmed or frightened conditions. Monstrous Metamorphosis. The hag moth caterpillar has a voracious appetite. Though it prefers fungi, it is not a finicky eater. That said, fresh corpses are excellent fodder for their mushroom groves and the remains of many a creature (or adventurer) can be found beneath the thick loam of these places. Once the caterpillar has had its fill, it metamorphoses into a hag moth. Hallucinogenic Breath . The hag moth and caterpillar exhale psychedelic smoke that confuses their target and dizzies them with extreme feelings of euphoria or despair. Tactics . A hag moth caterpillar’s primary means of attack is with its Bite, which only does a modest amount of piercing damage but a significant amount of poison damage. In addition, its Bite has a chance of imposing the poisoned or paralyzed condition on a target. The caterpillar also grapples enemies with its suction cups, doing further poison damage as a toxic slime covers its slick body. A caterpillar uses the Dash action to climb away when retreating, but a hag moth has the advantage of flight. In its winged form, the hag moth can dive in and out of combat without provoking opportunity attacks. Poison Suction Cups . The caterpillar adheres to anything that touches it. A Large or smaller creature adhered to the caterpillar is also grappled by it (escape DC 13). Ability checks made to escape this grapple have disadvantage. At the end of a grappled creature’s turn, it takes 3 (1d6) poison damage. Actions Bite . Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) poison damage. If the poison damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed while poisoned in this way. Hallucinogenic Breath (1/Day) . The caterpillar exhales a puff of hallucinogenic smoke at one creature within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn and have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls for 1 minute. While under this effect, the target hallucinates, causing all creatures to appear doubled, and its spoken words float off in puffs of smoke that form letters in the air. A target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 23348
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 13

