# Hag Moth

**description**: "In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass…" — Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll In poisonous mushroom groves, the hag moth thrives. One might venture into such places, foraging for fungi and spot clusters of shimmering dew, only to realize too late that the location is a hag moth’s lair. The dewy eggs of a hag moth develop into caterpillars with the appearance of spun glass. A hag moth caterpillar feasts on fungus deadly to other creatures before weaving a cocoon, where it transforms into its winged adult form then leaves to find its own grove. An adventurer lucky enough to survive an encounter with a hag moth in its lair may discover the rare hag moth mushroom. These large fungi fetch a handsome price at a market. With the right tools, they can be ground into a powder or mixed with other tonics to cure mind-altering effects such as charmed or frightened conditions. Monstrous Metamorphosis . The hag moth caterpillar has a voracious appetite. Though it prefers fungi, it is not a finicky eater. That said, fresh corpses are excellent fodder for their mushroom groves and the remains of many a creature (or adventurer) can be found beneath the thick loam of these places. Once the caterpillar has had its fill, it metamorphoses into a hag moth. Hallucinogenic Breath . The hag moth and caterpillar exhale psychedelic smoke that confuses their target and dizzies them with extreme feelings of euphoria or despair. Hypnotic Eyes . When an adult hag moth flaps its wings, the eye-like circles on them create illusions of eerie eyes seemingly floating outward and hanging in the air. The hapless victims mesmerized by these wings become charmed, and thus easy prey for the creature. Tactics . A hag moth caterpillar’s primary means of attack is with its Bite, which only does a modest amount of piercing damage but a significant amount of poison damage. In addition, its Bite has a chance of imposing the poisoned or paralyzed condition on a target. The caterpillar also grapples enemies with its suction cups, doing further poison damage as a toxic slime covers its slick body. A caterpillar uses the Dash action to climb away when retreating, but a hag moth has the advantage of flight. In its winged form, the hag moth can dive in and out of combat without provoking opportunity attacks. Flyby . The moth doesn't provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach. Actions Bite . Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) poison damage. If the poison damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed while poisoned in this way. Hallucinogenic Breath (Recharge 6) . The moth exhales hallucinogenic smoke in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn and have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls for 1 minute. While under this effect, the target hallucinates, causing all creatures to appear doubled, and its spoken words float off in puffs of smoke that form letters in the air. A target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Hypnotic Wings (1/Day) . The moth flaps its wings, creating a twisting pattern of colors that weaves through the air. Each creature within 30 feet of the moth that can see it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the moth until the end of the moth’s next turn. While charmed in this way, the target is incapacitated and has a speed of 0. A Hag Moth's Lair A hag moth makes its lair in poisonous mushroom groves. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the hag moth can take one of the following lair actions; the moth can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: The mushrooms in the lair shriek and release spores. Each creature within 30 feet of a mushroom that is not the moth or its allies must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving or become vulnerable to poison damage until initiative count 20 on the next round. Puffs of noxious gas fill a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the moth chooses within 120 feet of it. Creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 13 (2d12) poison damage. The hag moth creates an area of hallucinatory terrain centered on a point anywhere in its lair. The effect is similar to the hallucinatory terrain spell with the following changes: its area of effect is a 60-foot cube, it only lasts until the start of initiative count 20 on the next round, and it requires a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check save to disbelieve it. Regional Effects The region containing a moth’s lair is warped by the hag moth’s presence, which creates one or more of the following magical effects: The land within 6 miles of the lair is difficult terrain, since the earth is moist, and the area is thick with fungi. Fungi within 6 miles of the moth’s lair take on dazzling hues. Within its lair, the moth can create any number of illusory sounds, such as soft music and strange echoes, to be heard in various parts of the lair. If the moth dies, these regional effects end immediately.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 23348
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 13

