# Hag, Brine

**description**: Clawed, spined, and eel-tailed, this scaly, fishlike crone is slick with slime and seaweed and dotted with crusts of barnacles. The brine hag inhabits coastal regions, lairing in hidden grottoes, shipwrecks, and tidal caves. Sometimes posing as fishers or oyster diggers under hoods or cloaks, they prey on beachcombers, castaways, and fishermen. Corrupted Beauty. Brine hags were once aquatic fey who were lured into evil doings by evil, primordial entities of the deeps. Whether coerced or tempted, these marine monstrosities have been transformed by their unrepented acts. Cruel Manipulators. Like the creatures that created them, brine hags regularly manipulate weaker-willed beings, drawing them into wicked intrigues. They delight in corrupting others, reveling as much in those that embrace evil as in the despair of those who regret any actions committed due to the hag's influences. Amphibious. The brine hag can breathe air and water. Magic Resistance. The hag has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Polluted Aura. The brine hag pollutes the water around her when she is submerged. Each creature in the same water as the hag and that start its turn within 20 feet of the hag must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned while within the aura and for 1 minute after it leaves. A poisoned creature that starts its turn outside of the aura can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Skilled Submariner. The hag has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to find creatures and objects underwater. In addition, she has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide while underwater. Speak with Aquatic Creatures. The brine hag can communicate with Beasts and Monstrosities that have a swimming speed as if they shared a language. Actions Multiattack. The brine hag makes two Claw attacks and one Tail Slap attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become incapacitated until the end of its next turn. If it fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it is paralyzed instead. Tail Slap. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d12 +3) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or pushed up to 10 feet away from the hag. Shriek (Recharge 5-6). The brine hag unleashes a painful screeching in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in the area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 33 (6d10) thunder damage and is stunned until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't stunned. Denizens of the Deep (1/Day). The brine hag magically calls four reef sharks, two swarms of quippers, or one Beast of CR 2 or lower that has a swimming speed. The called creatures arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting as allies of the hag and obeying her spoken commands. The Beasts remain for 1 hour, until the hag dies, or until the hag dismisses them as a bonus action. Spellcasting. The brine hag casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: minor illusion 3/day each: charm person, major image 1/day: control water

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

