# Hag, Floe

**description**: A woman with long, lank hair, green-scaled skin, and elongated fingers hums eerily as it emerges from a hole in the ice. The floe hag is found in freezing cold seas. People living in the fishing villages of the far north know to limit their time on the ice to avoid a floe hag gra bbing them. Tell-Tale Signs. The floe hag clings to the underside of ice floes and knocks on the ice to attract the attention of hunters and fishermen. When a victim gets too close, the hag seizes it and stashes it inside an extradimensional pocket stitched into the back of her sealskin parka. Once she has a captive, she brings it to her lair benea th the ice. Eternal Captive. Captives brought to the floe hag's lair are never seen again. Some say the hag is lonely and wants company, freezing the captives into statues for companionship and decoration. Others say she stays young by slowly absorbing her captives' life energy. On rare occasions, a captive that survives an extended stay in the hag's lair transforms into a new floe hag and leaves the lair to claim its own victi ms and lair. Amphibious. The floe hag can breathe air and water. Ice Walk. The floe hag can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain covered in ice or snow doesn't cost her extra movement. Actions Multiattack. The floe hag makes two Claw attacks or three Ice Bolt attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) cold damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15) if the hag doesn't have another creature grappled. Ice Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) cold damage. Stash. The floe hag stashes a Medium or smaller creature grappled by her or that is incapacitated within 5 feet of her inside an extradimensional pocket in her parka, ending the grappled or incapacitated condition. The extradimensional pocket can hold only one creature at a time. While inside the pocket, the creature is blinded and restrained, and it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the pocket. The trapped creature can take its action to escape the pocket by succeeding on a DC 15 Strength check and using 5 feet of movement, falling prone in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the hag. If the floe hag dies, a trapped creature is freed, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the hag's body. Distracting Knock (Recharge 5-6). The floe hag raps her knuckles on the ice, creating a magical, echoing knock. Each creature within 30 feet of the hag must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage and is incapacitated for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't incapacitated. While incapacitated, a creature moves toward the hag by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move. An incapacitated creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The floe hag casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: minor illusion, prestidigitation 3/day each: fog cloud, sleep 1/day: sleet storm

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

