# Half-Black Dragon Minotaur Gladiator Champion

**description**: Having the powerful bipedal build of a minotaur and the iron-like scales, horns, wings, tail, and razor-sharp claws of a black dragon, this black dragon minotaur hybrid is a terrifying sight to behold. Territorial Predator. The half-black dragon minotaur is incredibly aggressive, highly territorial, and often a solitary creature. It watches over its territory relentlessly, constantly patrolling and hunting any intruders that dare enter its domain. Savage Warrior. Cunning and cruel, this half-dragon enjoys nothing more than a tough battle and slaughtering challenging enemies. It is the main reason it allows itself to enter arenas and fight as a gladiator. The Half-Black Dragon Minotaur's Lair The lair of a half-black dragon minotaur will usually be a complex cave system with numerous tunnels or the ruins of a multi-level ancient structure filled of maze-like side passages and dead ends. Sections of it will often be flooded, and the lair itself will be located in the center of a dense jungle or dismal swamp. The challenge rating of a half-black dragon minotaur increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the half-dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the half-dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The half-dragon chooses up to three points on the ground it can see within its lair. Noxious swamp gas erupts in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on each of those points. Each creature in those areas must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. The half-dragon chooses a point on the ground that it can see within its lair. Tendrils of swamp or jungle vegetation extend from the ground and snare creatures and objects in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on that point. For the duration of the effect, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain. Each creature other than the half-dragon that starts its turn standing in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained until initiative count 20 on the next round. The half-dragon chooses a point on the ground it can see within its lair. A cloud of toxic swamp gas erupts in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 4 (1d8) acid damage and 4 (1d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Amphibious. The half-dragon can breathe air and water. Brave. The half-dragon has advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Charge. If the half-dragon moves at least 10 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone. Labyrinthine Recall. The half-dragon can perfectly recall any path it has traveled. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the half-dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Reckless. At the start of its turn, the half-dragon can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls it makes during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon makes three melee attacks, each one with a different weapon. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) acid damage. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d12 + 6) slashing damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage. Wing Bash . Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d4 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales acid in a 30-­foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 49 (11d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Parry. The half-dragon adds 3 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the half-dragon must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. Legendary Actions The half-dragon can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The half-dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bite. The half-dragon makes a Bite attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 5 feet of the half-dragon must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 9 (1d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The half-dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed. Frighten Foes (Costs 1-3 Actions). The half-dragon targets up to 6 creatures of its choice within 60 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the half-dragon, it must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the half-dragon for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the half-dragon’s Frighten Foes for the next 24 hours. It costs 1 legendary action per 2 creatures targeted.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

