# Half-Red Dragon Fire Giant Boss

**description**: An imposing fusion of a giant's hulking frame and the fearsome but majestic features of a dragon, the half-red dragon fire giant is a monstrous hybrid bred for power and tyranny. Its scale-coated skin has a vibrant metallic crimson hue that shimmers with fiery intensity. Protruding from the back of its broad shoulders are magnificent wings, enabling the creature to hover and fly. Its draconic visage, adorned with formidable horns and eyes that glow like hot coals, exudes an air of intelligence and calculated ruthlessness. Merciless Tyrant. The half-red dragon fire giant craves conquest, power, and wealth above all else. It seeks to establish dominion over lesser beings, wielding its might and cunning to further its goals. The half-red dragon fire giant aims to rule over other giants as their emperor. It will stop at nothing to assert its dominance, employing any means necessary to crush opposition and establish a reign of fear and subservience. Weaker evil creatures become prime targets for this hybrid's influence, as it coerces them into servitude, compelling them to serve as slaves, soldiers, and spies in its quest for power. Dragon Warrior. In battle, the half-red dragon fire giant relies primarily on its immense physical strength and proficiency in melee combat. Brandishing a colossal flaming greatsword, the half-dragon cleaves through adversaries with a devastating display of power and fury. When faced with numerous foes, the creature unleashes its dreaded dragon breath—a searing cone of flame that engulfs everything in its path, reducing all who dare to challenge it to ash. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the half-dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon makes one Bite attack and two Greatsword attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 30 (6d6 + 9) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 31 (4d10 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales fire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 56 (16d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Command Ally. The half-dragon targets one visible ally within 60 feet of it. If the ally can see and hear the half-dragon, the ally uses its reaction to move up to half its speed or make one weapon attack. Reactions Parry. The half-dragon adds 4 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the half-dragon must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. Legendary Actions The half-dragon can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The half-dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the half-dragon must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take 20 (2d10 + 9) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The half-dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed. Frighten Foes (Costs 1-3 Actions). The half-dragon targets up to 6 creatures of its choice within 60 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the half-dragon, it must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the half-dragon for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the half-dragon’s Frighten Foes for the next 24 hours. It costs 1 legendary action per 2 creatures targeted.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

