# Half-Black Dragon Ogre Boss

**description**: An adult half-black dragon ogre stands 11 feet tall and weighs over a thousand pounds. Its massive body is covered in glossy black scales, and its head resembles a black dragon’s but with a shorter snout and tusks growing from its lower jaw. Short but powerful wings spread from its back and a long muscular tail extends from its rear. Evil and Unpredictable Brute. A half-black dragon ogre is brutal, wicked, and volatile. It can be brooding and lazily slumbering in its lair and then viciously lashing out in a murderous rampage the next. Thankfully, its cruel and savage nature is tempered by its stupidity. While a half-black ogre is a bit smarter than its ogre kin, it is still prone to manipulation and trickery. Rapacious Bully. A half-black dragon ogre is extremely greedy, gluttonous, and insatiable. It loves nothing more than looting and hoarding treasure and devouring humanoids, especially dwarves, halflings, and elves. A half-black dragon ogre almost always becomes the chieftain of its band, bullying its underlings to raid nearby civilized encampments. A Half-Black Dragon Ogre Boss's Lair A half-black dragon ogre boss prefers to live in sunken caverns and ruins in dreary marshlands or treacherous jungles. A half-black dragon ogre boss encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 11 (7,200 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the half-dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the half-dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The half-dragon casts stinking cloud , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13). It lasts until the half-dragon uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the half-dragon dies. The half-dragon chooses a point on the ground that it can see within its lair. A 20-foot-radius, 8-foot-deep cylinder of muck that creatures can sink into forms centered on that point. Each foot that a creature moves through the muck costs 4 feet of movement. Each creature that starts its turn in the area or enters it for the first time must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature sinks into the muck, is restrained, and can't breathe. It or another creature can use an action to end the restrained condition by pulling itself or the sunken creature from the muck with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. The half-dragon chooses up to three points on the ground it can see within its lair. Poisonous swamp gas erupts from each point in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Amphibious. The half-dragon can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the half-dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon makes one Bite attack and one Maul attack. It can use Sunder or Staggering Blow in place of its Maul attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) acid damage. Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and the target has disadvantage on the next weapon attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn. Sunder. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and if the target is wearing a nonmagical armor or shield, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or the nonmagical armor or shield (determined randomly) of the target takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty to the AC it offers. Armor reduced to an AC of 10 or a shield that drops to a +0 bonus is destroyed. Pulverizing Blow (4/Day). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (6d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is incapacitated and its speed reduced to 10 feet for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effects on itself on a success. Acid Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales acid in a 60-­foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 40 (9d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The half-dragon can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The half-dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The half-dragon moves up to its speed. Bite. The half-dragon makes a Bite attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 5 feet of the half-dragon must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (1d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The half-dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed. Frighten Foes (Costs 1-3 Actions). The half-dragon targets up to 6 creatures of its choice within 60 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the half-dragon, it must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the half-dragon for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the half-dragon’s Frighten Foes for the next 24 hours. It costs 1 legendary action per 2 creatures targeted.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

