# Half-Blue Dragon Ettin Boss

**description**: A half-blue dragon ettin appears as a 14-foot tall two-headed giant with blue dragon characteristics. Iridescent blue reptilian scales cover its body, and crooked tusks jut from the lower jaws of both of its draconic heads. Reclusive Tyrant. A half-blue dragon ettin almost always lives a solitary life as it is very intolerant of other creatures and is highly territorial. Just like a typical ettin, and due to its vain nature, the twin heads of the half-blue dragon ettin will constantly argue and bicker with each other. It is probably this reason why, though rarely, it keeps the company of orcs, ogres, or similarly weaker creatures that it enjoys bullying and tormenting to divert its attention. Widened Breath Attack . During combat, the half-blue dragon ettin likes nothing more than to butcher its enemies with its battleaxe and morningstar. If faced with a large number of foes, it will not hesitate to use its lightning breath. Because of its twin draconic heads, the width of its breath attack is twice as wide, making the half-blue dragon ettin a very dangerous adversary. A Half-Blue Dragon Ettin Boss's Lair The half-blue dragon ettin boss construct its lair in cavern complexes and sandswept ruins located in desolate areas. A half-blue dragon ettin boss encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the half-dragon can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the half-dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The half-dragon chooses up to two points it can see within its lair. A cloud of sand swirls about in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on each point. Each creature in the cloud must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The half-dragon chooses up to two points on the ground it can see within its lair. Bolts of lightning flashes down to each of the point from the ceiling directly above it. Each creature within 5 feet of that point must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 10 (3d6) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature in the area of more than one lightning strike is affected only once. The half-dragon chooses up to two points on the ground it can see within its lair. A 5-foot-radius, 7-foot-deep cylinder of quicksand forms centered on each point and is treated as difficult terrain. Each creature that starts its turn in those areas or enters it for the first time must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature sinks into the quicksand, is restrained, and can't breathe. It or another creature can use an action to end the restrained condition by pulling itself or the sunken creature from the quicksand with a successful DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check. On a success, the creature is no longer restrained and escapes the quicksand using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. A restrained creature is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the quicksand and is no longer restrained when the effect ends. The quicksands last for 1 minute, until the half-dragon uses this lair action again, or until the half-dragon dies or is incapacitated. Half-Dragons A half-dragon is the offspring of a dragon and another creature, the result of mad mage’s experiment, or the outcome of a dragon cult’s ritual. Despite their different inceptions, half-dragons have similar draconic characteristics and features. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the half-dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Reactive Heads. The half-dragon gets one extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Two Heads. The half-dragon has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Wakeful. When one of the half-dragon’s heads is asleep, its other head is awake. Actions Multiattack. The half-dragon makes one Bite attack, one Battleaxe attack, and one Morningstar attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d10 + 7) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) lightning damage. Battleaxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) slashing damage. Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) piercing damage. Lightning Breath (Recharge 5–6). The half-dragon exhales lightning in a 60-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 55 (10d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Parry. The half-dragon adds 3 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the half-dragon must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. Legendary Actions The half-dragon can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The half-dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bite. The half-dragon makes a Bite attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The half-dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 5 feet of the half-dragon must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 12 (1d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The half-dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed. Frighten Foes (Costs 1-3 Actions). The half-dragon targets up to 6 creatures of its choice within 60 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the half-dragon, it must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the half-dragon for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the half-dragon’s Frighten Foes for the next 24 hours. It costs 1 legendary action per 2 creatures targeted.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

