# Halimaw

**description**: Halimaw (Huh-lee-mou) The vicious halimaw, also called motog but more commonly known as the devil swine, is an incredibly strong and cunning aswang. In its humanoid form, the halimaw often appears as a large, stocky, or rotund humanoid with a charming personality that masks its slothful and gluttonous behaviors. In its fiend form, it resembles a repulsive creature that has the hideous attributes of an ogre, a tusked boar, and a demon. It is often mistaken for a wereboar, a fact that the halimaw uses to mislead its adversaries. Criminal Overlord. A halimaw is a vile and greedy lowlife who sought power and advancement by successfully entering into an accursed pact with the demon lord Baphomet. By day, the halimaw could be the local thieves' guild master, criminal ringleader, or corrupt town mayor. By night, it transforms into an aswang and hunts its enemies - anyone that may pose a threat to its operations and feeds on their flesh and viscera. Master Manipulator. The halimaw is able to magically charm up to three humanoids at a time, which the aswang uses to full advantage. It often targets key political or business figures that help enable the halimaw's shady operations to become successful. One a charmed target has outlived its usefulness, it is promptly devoured by the halimaw to tie up loose ends. Deadly Tusks. The halimaw is a very dangerous opponent and is considered by many as the most powerful type of aswang. Aside from being able to divide enemy ranks with its multiple charm ability and easily rip victims apart with its massive claws, its sharp tusks drip a deadly venom that can instantly kill those it gores. Aswang (Uh-swung) An aswang is an accursed humanoid that transforms into a fiend. In its natural form, an aswang resembles a typical humanoid. At night, it can change its shape into a cunning, demonic predator. It hunts other humanoids and feasts on their blood, organs, or life force. Aswang Curse. A humanoid creature can be afflicted by the aswang curse after it willingly made or was tricked into making a dark pact with a Demon Lord, sometimes through the actions of a hag. One can also be born into it if one or both of its parents are aswangs. Casting remove curse, greater restoration , or similar spell can free a humanoid of the curse, but a natural born aswang can only be freed of the curse with a wish . An aswang can either resist its curse or welcome it. By fighting the curse, an aswang keeps its normal behavior and personality while in its natural form. It can try to live its life as it wants but must constantly stave off the urge to feed. However, at nights of the full moon, the hunger becomes too great, and the curse overcomes the individual, forcing it to transform into its fiendish form. An aswang driven to this state becomes ravenous and will not stop hunting until it has fed. Each night that it fails to feed in its fiend form, it gains 1 level of exhaustion. A genuinely depraved individual, or someone corrupted by it, sees the aswang curse as a gift and, over time, masters the ability to change into a fiend. However, an aswang can only transform at night and retain its demonic form until dawn, at which point it automatically transforms back to its humanoid form. Masters of Deception. Aswangs hide in plain sight, living amongst normal folk and often taking up occupations like butchers, hunters, gravediggers, taxidermists, and trappers to help divert suspicions of why their homes may sometimes smell of carrion and death. They insert themselves into humanoid communities and earn their neighbors' trust through charm, friendliness, and generosity. They avoid getting physically close to an individual, though, because if one looks directly at their eyes, they will discover that their reflection is upside down. Aswangs tend to prey on members of society that no one will miss if they suddenly disappear. If such targets are unavailable, they travel to another community, settlement, or location that is far from their homes. They won't risk feeding near where they live. Anyone who becomes suspicious of them, or sees them in their fiendish form, is always dealt with immediately for fear of rousing an organized mob. A successful clan of aswangs can live in the outskirts of town, preying on its citizens for years without getting caught. If things start to go awry, the aswangs will not risk staying. They will leave as soon as they can and establish themselves in another community to begin anew. Night Stalkers. Aswangs are careful, patient, and stealthy hunters, often choosing targets that are defenseless or weak. Typically during the day, aswangs pick and mark their target and identify where they live. At night after they transform, they stalk their prey and bide their time until they can attack when their target is most vulnerable. This means most of their assaults happen when their target is alone or asleep. They often just leave the bodies of their victims where they are to avoid the risk of getting caught. Because their kills bear specific types of wounds commonly attributed to ghouls, lycanthropes, or vampires, they aren't worried suspicions about their presence will be brought up. Aswang Weaknesses. Aswangs, much like vampires, have several weaknesses. They find the pungent smell of garlic repulsive, and the chemical properties of pure salt sicken it. While an aswang can resist most blows, weapons made from a stingray's barbed tail, even simple ones, can hurt them normally. Because they become fiends while transformed, they are susceptible to attacks that specifically harm fiends, such as holy water. If an aswang fails its saving throw against a Dispel Evil and Good spell, it reverts to its humanoid form and can't transform for 1 minute. Traits Charge (Fiend Form Only). If the halimaw moves at least 15 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with its tusks on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Keen Hearing and Smell. The halimaw has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Actions Multiattack. The halimaw makes two Dagger attacks (humanoid form) or three attacks: one Tusks attack and two Claw attacks (fiend form). Tusks (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) slashing damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw against poison. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is reduced to 0 hit points, unless it is immune to poison. Otherwise, a creature takes 13 (3d8) poison damage on a failed save. Claw. (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) slashing damage. Dagger (Humanoid Form Only) . Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. Change Shape. The halimaw polymorphs into its Fiend Form or back into its true form, which is humanoid. In Fiend Form, the halimaw appears as a Large demonic boar-humanoid hybrid. Its statistics, other than its size, AC, Speed, damage, and damage resistances, are the same in each form. It reverts to its true form at dawn or if it dies. The halimaw can only use this action at night. While transformed, the halimaw also gains the following features: The halimaw's creature type changes to fiend. The halimaw has advantage on Strength and Dexterity checks and Strength and Dexterity saving throws. When the halimaw makes a melee weapon attack, it gains a +3 bonus to the damage roll (included in the attack). If the halimaw starts its turn within 10 feet of a pound of salt or garlic, it becomes poisoned until the start of its next turn. Charm (3/Day). One humanoid the halimaw can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 day. The charmed target obeys the halimaw's verbal commands. If the target suffers any harm or receives a suicidal command, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. If the target successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune to this halimaw's Charm for the next 24 hours. The halimaw can have up to three targets charmed at a time. If it charms a fourth one, the effect on the first target ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

