# Handipede

**description**: “Unsettling as they may be, I wholeheartedly recommend that every tavern in the land get one of these helpful little guys. All those tightly-screwed jars aren't going to open themselves!" — Heliana, Pickle Appreciator Type: Celestial Creature Component: Any celestial devourer Bonus Tamer Improvement: Metamorphosis and +2 Hit Dice With a disturbing appearance, handipedes are quite far removed from their celestial origins, relying more on their unusual hand-based magic than any sort of holy powers. However, a small spark of the divine hides within each of them, ready to bloom when the handipede reaches its full potential. Some of the handipede’s improvements allow it to cast spells. If any of the handipede’s traits or actions require a spell attack or a saving throw, use the calculations below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the handipede’s Charisma modifier Spell Attack Modifier = the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the handipede’s Charisma modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the handipede the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Metamorphosis Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Active (companion) As an action, the handipede can change from its centipede form into a moth form, or vice-versa. While in centipede form, it gains the following benefits: Its burrowing speed is increased to 15 feet . It gains tremorsense out to a range of 10 feet . While in moth form, it gains the following benefits: It gains a flying speed of 30 feet , its walking and climbing speeds are reduced to 10 feet , and it loses its burrowing speed. Its Sceptre attack is replaced by a Slap attack that functions similarly. Once the handipede’s tamer reaches 5th level in the tamer class, the handipede can change forms as a bonus action instead of an action. Swipe I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion), Active (action) The handipede gains proficiency in the Sleight of Hand skill. As an action, it can attempt to steal an item of its size or smaller that is being carried or held by a creature within 5 feet of it, making a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check contested by the target's choice of a Dexterity (Acrobatics) or Strength (Athletics) check. If the target is holding the item, the handipede has disadvantage on the check. On a success, the handipede steals the item, and the target can't make opportunity attacks against it until the end of the turn. If the handipede can cast mage hand , it can use the spectral hand to make the above check, using its Charisma modifier instead of Dexterity. Grapple I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The handipede gains proficiency in the Athletics skill, and it can grapple creatures up to two sizes larger than it. If the handipede can cast mage hand , it can use the spectral hand to grapple a creature, using its Charisma modifier instead of Strength. The hand has a 5-foot reach and can’t drag a grappled creature. Growth Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The handipede’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its Sceptre and Slap attacks increases to a d6 . Calloused Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The handipede gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Magic I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The handipede can cast the mage hand and shocking grasp cantrips at will, requiring no material or verbal components. In addition, it casts all cantrips as a 5th-level caster, and the damage of its Chill Touch attack increases to 2d8 . Swipe II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Swipe I Type: Passive (companion) The handipede’s proficiency bonus is doubled for any Sleight of Hand checks it makes. When it succeeds on Swipe’s contested Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check to steal an item from a creature that has a Spellcasting trait, it can choose to steal some of the target’s magical energy instead. The creature loses one spell slot or one use of a spell of a level equal to or lower than half the handipede’s proficiency bonus, and the handipede’s tamer regains one spell slot of the same level. After the handipede has stolen magical energy in this way, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Grapple II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Grapple I Type: Passive (companion) The handipede’s proficiency bonus is doubled for any Athletics checks it makes. When the handipede successfully grapples a creature, it can immediately cast the hideous laughter spell on that creature (no action or concentration required), conjuring dozens of spectral fingers that crawl all over the creature’s body and tickle it mercilessly. When the spell is cast in this way, it also affects creatures with an Intelligence score of 4 or less and ends early if the target is no longer grappled by the handipede. After the handipede casts this spell in this way, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Magic II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Magic I Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The handipede casts its cantrips as an 11th-level caster, and the damage of its Chill Touch attack increases to 3d8 . In addition, it can cast the vampiric touch spell, requiring no material or verbal components. Once it casts this spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. When the handipede's tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the handipede casts its cantrips as a 17th-level caster, and the damage of its Chill Touch attack increases to 4d8 . In addition, it can cast the arcane hand spell, requiring no material components or verbal components. Once it casts this spell, it can't do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Hand Wave Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the handipede can conjure a wave of spectral hands that washes over a 20-foot cube centred on a point within 30 feet of it, forcing each creature of its choice in the area to make a Strength saving throw . On a failed save, a creature takes 6d8 force damage and suffers one of the effects described below (tamer’s choice for all creatures). On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and suffers no additional effects. The creature is knocked prone . The creature is pushed horizontally up to 20 feet in a single direction of the tamer’s choice. The creature is grappled by spectral hands until the end of its next turn. One Medium or smaller object that is being held or carried by the creature is taken and dropped in an unoccupied space within the area. In addition, the handipede can rearrange any number of Medium or smaller objects in the area that aren’t being held or carried, but can’t drop or deposit them on a creature. Once the handipede has used this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Divine Protection Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Metamorphosis Type: Passive (companion) While in its moth form, the handipede embodies the tranquillity and dignity of angels, and other creatures find it difficult to attack it. The handipede is always under the effects of the sanctuary spell. If it makes an attack or uses a spell or ability that affects an enemy creature, the effects of the spell are suppressed until the start of its next turn. Divine Wrath Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Metamorphosis Type: Active (bonus action) While in its centipede form, the handipede is akin to a fierce paladin fighting evil in the name of their cause. When the handipede uses its action to cast a cantrip, it can make a Sceptre attack as a bonus action. The attack deals an extra 1d6 radiant damage on a hit.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 28918
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

