# Hangman Tree

**description**: The hangman tree is a carnivorous, predatory tree that takes its name from how it captures its prey. It resembles an oak tree with a thick trunk with long leafy vines and tendrils that dangle from its branches. Above its trunk is an opening much like a giant maw lined with rows of sharp teeth that look like carved wooden tusks. Garotte-like Tendrils. The hangman tree waits till prey is directly underneath its vines. It then releases its poisonous spores, which weaken those that unsuspectingly breathe them in. The hangman tree then attacks its prey by snatching them with its tendrils, wrapping around a victim's neck like a tightening noose. The target is then reeled upwards by the hangman tree and deposited into its mouth, where it is eaten and swallowed whole. A victim is usually already dead from asphyxiation by the time it reaches the hangman tree's mouth. Ambush Hunter. The hangman tree grows in temperate and subtropical forests, swamps, and woodland areas. It picks a spot to root where it feels there is most traffic, such as beside an animal trail, river crossing, or a road. Traits False Appearance. If the hangman tree is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the hangman tree move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the hangman tree is animate. Actions Multiattack. The hangman tree makes three Tendril attacks. It can use Bite or Swallow in place of one Tendril attack. Tendril. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one Medium or smaller creature. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 14) and pulled upward 10 feet toward the hangman tree. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, can’t breathe, and the hangman tree can automatically hit the target with its Tendril attack. The hangman tree has nine tendrils, each of which can grapple only one target. Each tendril can be attacked (AC 10; 15 hit points; immunity to poison and psychic damage). Destroying a tendril deals no damage to the hangman tree, which can use an action to grow a replacement tendril. A tendril can also be broken if a creature takes an action and succeeds on a DC 14 Strength check against it. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature it is grappling with. Hit: 21 (5d6 + 4) piercing damage. Swallow. The hangman tree makes one Bite attack against a target. If the attack hits, the target is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. While swallowed, the target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the hangman tree, and it takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of the hangman tree's turns. A hangman tree can have up to four Small or two Medium creatures swallowed at a time. If the hangman tree takes 15 damage or more on a single turn from the swallowed creature, the hangman tree must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate the creature, which falls prone in a space within 10 feet of the hangman tree. If the hangman tree dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 15 feet of movement, exiting prone. Bonus Actions Enfeebling Spores (3/Day). A 60-foot radius cloud of spores extends from the hangman tree and lingers in the air for 1 minute. These spores can go around corners and they have no effect on Constructs, Elementals, Plants, or Undead. Each other creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the creature has disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. A moderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses the cloud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at least 20 miles per hour) disperses it after 1 round.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

