# Harlo Honeygrin

**description**: Though Harlo Honeygrin approaches his one hundred and twentieth birthday, he retains his appearance as a halfling man in the prime of youth with exceptional good looks. His public image paints him as a charming, heroic lover of the arts, but in truth, Harlo is a jealous, spiteful reprobate who secretly created a criminal enterprise to fulfill his vain and desperate needs. Over eighty years ago, Harlo forged a deal with Barresqueth, an archfey who offered the destitute halfling fame, power, and beauty in exchange for a payment of treasure every three years. After forging the pact, Harlo built the life of theater and adventure he’d always wanted—but when his first payment came due, Harlo learned Barres­queth would increase the price every three years. As the fee grew, Harlo resorted to criminal means to obtain it. Each time Barresqueth collects the debt from Harlo, the archfey assumes the guise of a swashbuckling mouse with an eyepatch. Passersby assume the little rodent is Harlo’s adorable fey friend, which only irks the halfling more as he forks over a sack of riches to the greedy little mouse. Harlo maintains his life as a famous actor, using it to build connections within the societies the Knife seeks to control. When forced into action, he uses his powers from hiding while the other bosses go toe-to-toe with opponents. Traits Amethyst Die ( 3 /Day) . When Harlo makes an ability check, saving throw, or attack roll, he can roll a d6 and add the number rolled to the number rolled on the d20 roll. He then takes psychic damage equal to twice the number rolled on the d6. Harlo can use this die even in his shadow form. Fear Resistant. Harlo has advantage on saving throws he makes to avoid or end the frightened condition on himself. Mind Link. Harlo can communicate telepathically with any Amethyst Knife boss regardless of distance, provided they are on the same plane of existence. Telepathic Shroud. Harlo is immune to any effect that would sense his emotions or read his thoughts, as well as to all divination spells. Actions Multiattack. Harlo makes two Mind Splinter attacks. *Mind Splinter ( 1 st-Order Power ). Melee or Ranged Power Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) psychic damage, and Harlo is invisible to the target until the start of his next turn. Shadow Form ( 1 /Day; 4 th-Order Power; Concentration). Harlo transforms his body into an amorphous shadow, along with everything he is wearing or carrying, and gains the following benefits for 10 minutes: He has a flying speed of 60 feet. He has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from mundane attacks. He has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks and can attempt to hide without cover. He can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. While in this form, Harlo can’t pick up or wield objects except for his Amethyst Die. Bonus Actions I’m Over Here. Harlo chooses an enemy within 60 feet of him who he can see but who can’t see him. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or make a weapon attack against a creature of Harlo’s choice. Sneaky. Harlo takes the Hide action. Reactions Shared Condition. When Harlo is blinded, charmed, dazed, deafened, frightened, paralyzed, or stunned, he chooses a willing Amethyst Knife boss within 60 feet of him who doesn’t already have the condition or is immune to it. The chosen creature then gains the condition for the duration, and Harlo loses the condition. He can use this reaction even while incapacitated.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Halfling)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

