# Harpy, Plague

**description**: The creature combines the body of a woman with the head, wings, and talons of a giant vulture. It perches silently, head cocked to the side, studying its surroundings. The plague harpy is a carrion eater and an aggressive plague carrier. They are found anywhere bodies accumulate, especially those that are diseased. Patiently Awaiting Death. A plague harpy likes its meals dead, and preferably rotten and diseased. The harpies are perfectly content to infect individuals, leaving the creatures otherwise unmolested, and allow them to return to their loved ones. Plague harpies sow the seeds of disease today in the hopes of reaping greater rewards tomorrow. Pain of the Dying. The dirge sung by plague harpies sounds different to each person that hears it and is accompanied by telepathic images of dying friends and family. The harpies hope to instill a state of sorrow and grief with the dirge, making their victims more susceptible to illness. Limited Telepathy. The plague harpy can magically transmit simple messages and images to any creature within 90 feet of it that can understand a language. This form of telepathy doesn't allow the receiving creature to telepathically respond. Virulence. A creature infected with harpy's plague becomes contagious 24 hours after contracting the disease. When a creature starts its turn within 5 feet of the contagious target, that creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or also contract the harpy's plague disease. Actions Multiattack. The harpy uses Dirge. It then makes one Bite attack and two Talons attacks, or it makes three Sorrowful Caw attacks. If the harpy hits one Medium or smaller creature with two Talons attacks, the target is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the harpy can automatically hit the target with its Talons, and the harpy can't make Talons attacks against other targets. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or contract the harpy's plague disease. If the target is disheartened and contracts harpy's plague, its hp maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken. Until the disease is cured, the target can't regain hp except by magical means, and the target's hp maximum decreases by 10 (3d6) every 24 hours. If the target's hp maximum drops to 0 as a result of this disease, the target dies. Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) slashing damage. Sorrowful Caw. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 90 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) psychic damage. Dirge. The harpy telepathically sings a mournful hymn and projects images of sickly and dying loved ones in the mind of one creature it can see within 90 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be disheartened for 1 minute. While disheartened, a creature has disadvantage on saving throws against being poisoned or contracting a disease. The disheartened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

