# Harpy Witch Queen

**description**: A harpy witch queen is the most powerful and greediest of harpy witches and rules over all harpy flocks throughout its territory, which can stretch for thousands of miles. She constantly schemes on how to attract more adventurers to consume as well as to accumulate treasure. All harpy witches report and pay tribute to her. A Witch Queen's Lair The lair of a harpy witch queen is usually the ruins of an elven tower or fortress that is hidden within a dark, gnarly forest or high atop a steep, coastal cliff. The harpy witch queen is always attended to by several harpy witches, which forms her coven. She attracts the company of evil fey such as dark duwendes, quicklings, redcaps, and tikbalangs, all of whom work under her employ. A harpy witch queen would also occasionally hire cyclopes if it needs muscle. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the harpy witch queen takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the harpy witch queen can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The harpy witch queen casts bestow curse (no components required) and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. The effect ends after 1 minute, or if the harpy witch queen uses this lair action again. Powerful winds buffet the lair in a 30-foot radius around the harpy witch queen. Each creature other than the harpy witch queen in that area must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or take 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The harpy witch queen regains 10 hit points. Regional Effects The region containing a harpy witch queen’s lair is warped by the harpy witch queen’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Once per day, the harpy witch queen can alter the weather in a 6-mile radius centered on its lair. The harpy witch queen doesn’t need to be outdoors; otherwise the effect is identical to the control weather spell. Winged beasts within 1 mile of the lair become evil and bloodthirsty — even creatures that are normally docile. Within 6 miles of the lair, all Wisdom (Insight) checks have disadvantage, and all Charisma (Deception) and Charisma (Persuasion) checks have advantage. If the harpy witch queen dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the harpy fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Spell Penetration. When the harpy casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The harpy makes two attacks: one with its Claws and one with its Morningstar. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) slashing damage. Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage. Cursed Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d8 + 4) psychic damage, and the target has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until the end of the harpy’s next turn. Luring Song. The harpy sings a magical melody. Every humanoid and harpy within 300 feet of the harpy that can hear the song must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the song ends. The harpy must take a bonus action on her subsequent turns to continue singing. She can stop singing at any time. The song ends if the harpy is incapacitated. While charmed by the harpy, a target is incapacitated and ignores the songs of other harpies. If the charmed target is more than 5 feet away from the harpy, the target must move on its turn toward the harpy by the most direct route. It doesn't avoid opportunity attacks, but before moving into damaging terrain, such as lava or a pit, and whenever it takes damage from a source other than the harpy, a target can repeat the saving throw. A creature can also repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the effect ends on it. A target that successfully saves is immune to this harpy's song for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The harpy casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: disguise self, friends, mage armor (self only), mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation 2/day (as 5th-level spells): dispel magic, fear, greater invisibility, hold monster, synaptic static 1/day each: ci r cle of death, dominate monster, power word pain Reactions Vexing Screech (Recharge 5–6). When a creature within 30 feet of the harpy, is visible to the harpy, and can hear the harpy targets the harpy with an attack or harmful spell, the harpy forces the creature to make a DC 16 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 27 (6d8) psychic damage and is incapacitated until the end of the harpy's next turn. Legendary Actions The harpy can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The harpy regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Claws. The harpy attacks with her Claws. Exert Will. One creature charmed by the harpy that she can see must use its reaction to move up to its speed as she directs or to make a weapon attack against a target that she designates. Cursed Bolt (Costs 2 Actions). The harpy uses Cursed Bolt.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

