# Hastur

**description**: Hastur, the Great Old One, is an enigmatic figure of frightening power. His physical manifestation is the King in Yellow, a tall, thin, humanoid form draped in a tattered yellow robe, its features draped and hidden. Cult of Hastur. Followers of Hastur are often aristocrats from the upper crust of society. They are jaded and world-weary, their quest for fulfillment leading them down bizarre and deviant paths. Their places of worship are often hidden rooms in lavish settings—theaters, bathhouses, mansions—where their perverse pursuits can be conducted in private. These decadent and often nihilistic cultists delight in the corruption of the innocent, attempting to place them under the sway of the Yellow Sign, to enslave them to the King in Yellow and perhaps even draw his physical manifestation to their world. Immortal. Death has no true hold on the Great Old Ones. If Hastur is slain, his tattered robes fall to the ground, whatever form they may have garbed simply vanishes. Any humanoid creature that touches them must succeed at at a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw or be unable to resist the urge to don the yellow robes as its next action. Once it has donned the robes, the creature immediately dies and its body is destroyed. In its place, Hastur lives again, as if brought back via true resurrection. If the robes are not donned within 24 hours, they crumble away, leaving a faint, but indelible, yellow stain behind. In this instance, Hastur cannot manifest a physical form again until the conditions are right, or some brazen person or persons manage to call him forth again. Reveal Visage. As a bonus action, Hastur may reveal the true form that lies beneath his robes to one adjacent creature. The creature must succeed at a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw or be paralyzed for 1d4 rounds and suffer disadvantage on all Wisdom-based rolls. A lesser or greater restoration will remove the latter effect, and a calm emotions spell suppresses this disadvantage for its duration. Dark Wishes. As an optional ability, the GM may allow Hastur to innately cast wish once per day, requiring no material components. He can only grant the wishes of other creatures, and only once to any given creature. The results of the wish, however it is worded, should inevitably serve the purposes of Hastur in some fashion. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatDescription, li.StatDescription, div.StatDescription {mso-style-name:"Stat Description"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration (mythic, mythos)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 30

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

