# Hecatonchires

**description**: When the world was young, Earth and Sky had come together in a union. Bearing powerful immortal children, but these beings were considered hideously ugly by their father, the primordial deity of the sky Ouranos. In his disgust he ripped them away from their mother and threw them down into Tartarus, the pit. The second set of triplets born from the earth were the Hecatonchires, immense giants with 100 arms and 50 heads. They wielded unfathomable strength, which aided the gods in their war against the Titans for control of the world after they freed the hundred-handed ones. Only 3 Hecatonchires exist, the brothers Briareus, Cottus and Gyges. They were all allowed to roam the world after the gods established their rule over the world, but they have not been seen in millennia. But it is rumored that they are acting as the new jailers of Tartarus. Forces of Nature. These giants are so powerful that they are associated with certain natural disasters, such as earthquakes and huge sea waves, by storytellers. Immortal Nature. Due to being born from the primordial forces of existence, the hundred-handed ones are blessed with immortality. However, they do not possess the divine powers that their siblings, the Titans, or their descendants, the gods, wield. Hecatonchires as a Mythic Encounter The hecatonchires are beings that belong to a completely different scale of power than any other giants. Their size, their offensive power and their capabilities for war made them contenders against their immortal siblings in ages past. If you wish to make an encounter with these behemoths truly legendary, the hecatonchires might use his Jailer's Tenacity trait. When this happens, the primordial matter that gave birth to the world brings the giants back from the brink. When this happens, the hecatonchires can choose one of his mythic actions when he uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when the hecatonchires uses his Jailer's Tenacity trait: The Hundred-Handed One falls The giant collapses onto the ground. The myriad arms and heads create a cacophony of sound as they violently reach the rough stone. However, the earth itself seems to resonate with the impact. Rough stone is replaced with soft soil and clay, carrying primordial power from Gaia herself directly to her children. The wounds of the hecatonchires cease to bleed, missing limbs are replaced with earthen replicas and power is restored. Fifty previously downcast heads rise with furious vigor, carrying a fighting spirit so strong it makes onlookers wish to take a step back. A hundred arms flex once again in preparation as the giant is ready to join the battle once more. Fighting the hecatonchires as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 24 creatures in one encounter. Award a party an additional62,000 XP (124,000 XP total) for defeating him after his Jailer’s Tenacity trait activates. Giants Giants are rather plentiful amongst Greek monsters. Born most often from divine blood, although monstrous origins are not unheard of, they have a unique place in the world. Sometimes destructive and sometimes dutiful servants of the order of the world. Traits Jailer's Tenacity (Recharges after a short or long Rest). If the hecatonchires is reduced to 0 hit points, he doesn't die or fall unconscious. Instead, he regains 325 hit points. In addition, the energy of creation that created the world reinvigorates him, granting him 100 temporary hit points, recharging his Rain of Stone and regaining any expended uses of Legendary Resistance and Seismic Shock. Additionally, the hecatonchires can now use the options in the “Mythic Actions” section for 1 hour. Award a party an additional 62,000 XP (124,000 XP total) for defeating the hecatonchires after his Jailer's Tenacity activates. Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the hecatonchires fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The hecatonchires has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The hecatonchires' weapon attacks are magical. Multiple Heads. The hecatonchires has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, deafened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. Reactive Body. The hecatonchires can take one reaction on every turn in combat. Siege Monster. The hecatonchires deals double damage to objects and structures. Vigilant. The hecatonchires can't be surprised. Wakeful. While the hecatonchires sleeps, at least one of his heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The hecatonchires makes four of his hundred arms barrage attacks or three rock throw attacks. Hundred Arms Barrage. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 36 (4d12 + 10) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) radiant damage. The hecatonchires can force the target to make a DC 25 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 15 feet in a direction of his choosing. Alternatively, if the creature fails the saving throw the hecatonchires can choose to grapple the target, instead of pushing it. Rock Throw . Ranged Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 60/240ft., one target. Hit: 32 (4d10 + 10) bludgeoning damage. Rain of Stone (Recharge 5-6). The hecatonchires uses its hundred arms to throws boulders in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw, taking 88 (25d6) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Seismic Shock (1/day). The hecatonchires creates an intense tremor that rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle centered on himself and shakes creatures and structures in contact with the ground in that area. Creatures must make a DC 25 Strength saving throw or take 77 (14d10) bludgeoning damage and be trapped under debris. A trapped creature is restrained, requiring a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to escape. Another creature within 5 feet of the buried creature can use its action to clear rubble and grant advantage on the check. If three creatures use their actions in this way, the check is an automatic success. On a successful save the creature takes only half damage and isn't trapped by the debris. Reactions Deflection. The hecatonchires adds 7 to his AC against one weapon attack that would hit him. To do so, The hecatonchires must see the attacker. Legendary Actions Hecatonchires can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Hecatonchires regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The hecatonchires can move up to his speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. The hecatonchires can make a rock throw attack. Mythic Actions If the hecatonchires’ Jailer's Tenacity trait has activated in the last hour, he can use the options below as legendary actions. Hundred Arms (costs 2 Actions). The hecatonchires can make a hundred arms barrage attack. Jailer's Momentum (costs 3 Actions). The hecatonchires recharges his Rain of Stone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: giant
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

