# Hel

**description**: Hel, Lady of the Dead Hel is the daughter of Mirgal and Boða. She tends to wear a blue tunic and a dark cloak. Her black hair is braided, falling over the left side of her face and partly obscuring a scarred, emaciated face. Her left hand is skeletal as well, her right covered in flesh. After being slain by her own mother, she returned to Grimnir as the Lady of the Dead. Hel judges no one and her love and compassion can extend to even the direst of subjects. In her youth, during the Exodus, she even brought several Yoten into the world, believing that she might redeem them. These include Ormur and Fenrir. Even after her death, she continued to watch over her siblings. As time passed both her siblings grew ever larger and Hel began to worry. Would they turn against her as her mother and father had? And she saw signs of other Yoten in the great wilds, an evil just waiting to inflict itself upon Hel’s beloved mortals. Most of all she watched for any sign that either father or mother might somehow return to Grimnir. She worried she might have to destroy one or both of them, if that happened. The burden she had on her to keep the world together grew heavier, year after year. Ultimately the grief Hel suffered over losing Thonir also intensified. She was never able to overcome it, no matter how hard she tried to help others. Even after centuries no distraction was ever sufficient to allow her to forget her true love. A few years ago, she created a simulacrum, Hollow Hel. Even knowing it would destroy her, Hel then traveled to Valholl to have one last moment with Thonir. As predicted, she was destroyed, but what she could not have predicted was just how strange the tangled magics of Grimnir are. She was reincarnated and born into another realm where she has lived a mortal’s life. Hollow Hel is identical to her creator. Siddhe She is Hel reborn. Throughout the plot she may begin to remember bits of her past. But Siddhe generally has no idea about who she once was or that her true father—Mirgal—is responsible for bringing her back to Grimnir. The heroes will have the choice of either allowing her to remain alive or forcing her to inherit the mantle of Lady of the Dead again. Roleplaying Hel Hollow Hel shares the same traits as Hel and behaves identically to her creator. Grieving. Hel is deeply empathetic to the suffering of others. This empathy is a burden and she suffers constantly. This suffering is intensified by her own losses —from learning that she was a monster originally created by Mirgal and Boða for dire purposes to being murdered by her own mother and then later, losing Thonir. Kind. Though she is deeply hurt and troubled herself, Hel extends kindness to the dead that enter her realm. She feels all should have the opportunity to live their lives in the way they want. The Underworld is a haven from the real world. Worried. She knows that both her father and mother are capable of causing much suffering in the world and she watches for signs of their activity. She also mitigates the evil of mortals and has directly interfered in stopping schemes concocted by the Ironwood Witches. She does not believe she can trust anyone else with her burden and thus she carries it, alone. Lair Actions When fighting inside her lair, Hel can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Hel can take one lair action to cause one of the following effects: Helmaw. A helmaw opens and one undead of CR 10 or less passes through to join the battle. The undead rolls initiative and acts of its own volition. Undead spawned in this way are allied to Hel and treat her enemies as their enemies. Dire Fog. A heavy fog drifts onto the battlefield, causing the entire lair to become heavily obscured. Creatures not native to the Underworld that start their turn in the mist must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. Targets take 18 (4d8) cold damage plus 18 (4d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fog lasts until another lair action is used. Verdict. A thunderous chime rings out across the realm, judging creatures present. Creatures that hear the bell and are missing hit points have their hit point maximum set to their current hit point value, which can only be restored by leaving the Underworld or through a wish spell or similar effect. Creatures that hear the bell and are on full hit points instead take 32 (5d12) necrotic damage. Many-Hands. 5 spectral copies of Hel’s scythe materialize around the battlefield. A spectral scythe can be used to make an attack of opportunity without consuming Hel’s reaction. Each scythe can be used by Hel a single time before it dissipates. Hel can’t repeat an effect until they have all been used, and she can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: True Neutral
- Expansion: 25792
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

