# Helhest

**description**: Denizens of the Underworld Many of the undead of Grimnir serve a somewhat different role than they do in other worlds. While on the surface skeletons and zombies exist as dangers to the living, their existence is more nuanced. Many of the dead are agents of Hel and scour the surface world at her bidding. They gather information, they help her collect the unfortunate and forgotten, and they defend her interests—and those of Grimnir. Yet, despite this semblance of civility, the undead are still frightening and the raiders avoid them. The walking dead are something they simply don’t understand and some fear that one day the undead will rise to help consume the world. This is a worrying concept and one that is often on the mind of any raider who travels near territory haunted by the once-living. That is not to say that undead are never vile, never evil. There are many examples of the dead disregarding Hel’s mercy and love. These tend to cause the same sorts of disruptions that one might expect in more typical worlds. Pretty much any undead that might be found elsewhere can be found in Grimnir and Hel does not control them—even within the Underworld they have free will. And some decide to be terrible. In addition to standard undead, the world of Grimnir has spawned several unique flavors, from the cursed knight to the pyrewights. Many of these are created because of the breaking or bending of an oath, or because a duty was not honored. Undead Nature. Like undead in other realms, these undead do not require air, food, drink, or sleep. Helhest Ever fond of her animals, Hel pays special attention to those creatures born with differences that then die and enter her realm. For reasons known only to her, or simply because she is compassionate, horses with missing legs are taken as her personal steeds. These horses become helhests and gain the ability to conjure a phantom version of their missing limb, but even when it is not active, these steeds are just as swift as any other horse. Hel usually rides helhests into Grimnir when she decides she is needed to help guide souls into her realm. However, the raiders always misconstrue her presence. Many believe that helhests bring death and that seeing them is a sign that doom approaches. It is, unfortunately, the opposite. Hel senses when death from plague, flood, or old age approaches. She and her helhests merely ride to where suffering arises. Despite Hel’s intentions, the sight of a helhest riding towards a raider in the deep dark of night, its leg glowing ghoulishly, will always be cause for fright. The Chains of Hel. When helhests gallop the noise they make is like that of iron against iron, a shrill shrieking that sends a shiver down the spines of those who hear it. The Undead Herd. Helhests behave much like the horses they once were. They tend to stay in herds and readily come to the defense of one another. Life & Death Clerics and paladins of Grimnir don’t tend to see the undead as their enemies. At times yes, they are something to fear, but holy raiders do not focus on the undead the way their peers might in other lands. A different way to imagine the relationship between the holy and the undead, is that some clerics and paladin might seek ways to end what they perceive as suffering… they want to grant the undead mercy. They seek to return them to rest—either to Valholl or to the Underworld.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25792
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

