# Hellblade Archon

**description**: Hellblade archons are former sword archons that let their emotions get the best of them. They may have lost a close friend or ally to an enemy. Blinded by rage and their need for vengeance, they willingly ignored their sacred oaths and instructions. Banished from Mount Celestia, they felt betrayed and turned their anger back at their former allies. Now residing in the Nine Hells, hellblade archons are tasked by archdevils to lead troops of devils and often keep a retinue of loyal injustice archons. Hellblade archons are more formidable opponents in combat. Aside from being able to cast more dangerous spells, they can also project an aura of hellfire which makes enemies more vulnerable to their fire-based attacks. Fallen Archons An archon always answers to a higher being: a superior archon, angel, and always to a Mount Celestial deity. It is expected to abide by and enforce the laws of its god. There are rare instances that an archon, just like its angel brethren, for some reason or another, would deviate from the stringent rules set for it. Depending on the gravity of its actions, an archon may be stripped of its station, banished from Mount Celestia, or even imprisoned. Such an archon has become a fallen archon. Fallen from Grace. Most fallen archons who are banished willingly live out their lives as mortals in the Material Plane, accepting it as a form of penitence. However, a few, having been twisted by their perverse pride, greed, and selfishness, become subversive and hide out in the Lower Planes. As they simmer in anger and hate, they become prone to temptation. Diabolical Transformation. Agents representing archdevils from the Nine Hells offer fallen archons a place where they can be respected, given power, and a chance to punish those that have wronged them. Those that accept sign a diabolical contract that binds their souls to Asmodeus and the Nine Hells. They transform and become corrupted shadows of their former selves and ultimately become devils. They lose some of their archon abilities but gain new, fiendish ones. Agents of the Nine Hells. Most fallen archons become soldiers of archdevils that recruited them. Others become assassins, agents, and spies. No matter their role, fallen archons are no longer bound by their conscience or morality and have become cruel, merciless, and unforgiving. Immortal Nature. A fallen archon doesn’t require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the fallen archon’s darkvision. Flyby. The fallen archon doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. Magic Resistance. The fallen archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Discorporating Dive (3/Day). If the fallen archon is flying and dives at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with an armblade attack, the fallen archon can force the target to make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 22 (5d8) necrotic damage and 22 (5d8) fire damage and the target is disintegrated if this damage leaves it with 0 hit points. A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of black ash. In addition, a disintegrated humanoid creature has its soul funneled into the River Styx, where it’s reborn instantly as a lemure devil. Until its soul is released or a wish spell is used, the creature cannot be restored to life. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage. Actions Multiattack. The fallen archon makes two Armblade attacks. Armblade. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) fire damage and 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. Spellcasting. The fallen archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: bane, darkness, detect evil and good, invisibility (self only) 3/day: bestow curse, dispel magic, enemies abound 1/day each: dispel evil and good, flame strike Teleport. The fallen archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Bonus Actions Armblades. The fallen archon transforms the flesh of its forearms, hardening and sharpening them into the form of divine, fiery swordblades, or vice versa. The fallen archon's armblade attacks are considered magical. Hellfire Aura. The fallen archon emits hellfire. A creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the fallen archon, or touches it or hits it with a melee attack while within 10 feet of it and the Hellfire Aura is active takes 9 (2d8) fire damage. A creature that takes damage from the Hellfire Aura becomes vulnerable to fire damage until the start of its next turn. The Hellfire Aura remains until the fallen archon dies or until it dismisses it as a bonus action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

