# Hellhound Companion (PB 6)

**description**: Everyone asks if good dogs go to the heavens. Naive fools! They should be wondering what happens to the bad ones. Ek-Boshek of Azmekidom Anyone can see that hellhounds are no ordinary beasts. Larger than most mortal hounds, their eyes glow a vicious scarlet, and their skin ranges from coal-black to blood-red. When angered—which is the vast majority of the time—their skin radiates the hellfire held within, and flames lick at the edges of their mouths, seeking release. Hellhounds make for fierce and cunning combatants, working well with their owner and pack mates to surround foes. They drive prey into ambushes to maximize the impact of their fiery breath. Not only are these hounds immune to fire, but exposure to it hardens their skin, so they gladly unleash their breath weapons regardless of whether their pack mates are in the line of fire. Though hellhounds can survive in most environments, they shun the cold and thrive in hot regions such as heated caves, volcanoes, deserts, and sites near rifts to the elemental plane of Quintessence. Bound to Serve. Fiends create hellhounds from the souls of canines and similar loyal creatures. These fiends often give these hellhounds as rewards to faithful followers—and sometimes to ones who are as yet unproven, but show great potential. Drawn to Power. Hellhounds tear the unworthy to shreds, but they show great loyalty and even tenderness to capable leaders who treat them well. Thus it’s unsurprising that hellhounds thrive under a powerful trainer. Fiends, fire giants, efreet, salamanders, and similar creatures commonly command their respect; in particular, fire giants often form lasting and loyal relationships with their hounds. Bent on Destruction. Without the steady hand of their trainer, hellhounds become more chaotic and destructive. Like a bad dog left alone, they lay ruin to anything and anyone they can bite or set aflame. Redemption. Though most hellhounds are formed from the souls of beasts, fiends sometimes sadistically bind fallen humanoid souls that were once good people but lost their way, forcing them to serve as hellhounds. In rare cases, such a hound can be redeemed if rescued at a young age by a kind and capable trainer who can lead the hound on a gentler path. Upon its death, a redeemed hellhound is freed from the Seven Cities of Hell and moves on to a better afterlife. Traits Consult Hell (Recharges after a Long Rest). The hound’s caregiver can talk to the hound about a specific course of action that the caregiver plans to take within the next 30 minutes, tapping into divinatory power through the hound’s connection to the infernal realm. After 1 minute, the hound then gives a response based on its own objective prophetic sense of the outcome: one bark for good results, two barks for bad results, three barks for both good and bad results, and no barks for results that aren’t especially good or bad. Keen Hearing and Smell. The hound has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Actions Bite (Signature Attack). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB piercing damage. 1 st Level: Lava Spittle ( 2 Ferocity). The hound makes a signature attack. On a hit, the attack deals an extra PB damage, and the hound can choose another creature within 5 feet of the target, dealing PB fire damage to that creature. 3 rd Level: Brutal Charge ( 5 Ferocity). The hound can move up to their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. During or at the end of this move, they can make a signature attack against one target within reach. 5 th Level: Fire Breath ( 8 Ferocity). The hound exhales fire in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw, taking PBd6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

