# Hellhound Cur

**description**: Everyone asks if good dogs go to the heavens. Naive fools! They should be wondering what happens to the bad ones. Ek-Boshek of Azmekidom Anyone can see that hellhounds are no ordinary beasts. Larger than most mortal hounds, their eyes glow a vicious scarlet, and their skin ranges from coal-black to blood-red. When angered—which is the vast majority of the time—their skin radiates the hellfire held within, and flames lick at the edges of their mouths, seeking release. Hellhounds make for fierce and cunning combatants, working well with their owner and pack mates to surround foes. They drive prey into ambushes to maximize the impact of their fiery breath. Not only are these hounds immune to fire, but exposure to it hardens their skin, so they gladly unleash their breath weapons regardless of whether their pack mates are in the line of fire. Though hellhounds can survive in most environments, they shun the cold and thrive in hot regions such as heated caves, volcanoes, deserts, and sites near rifts to the elemental plane of Quintessence. Bound to Serve. Fiends create hellhounds from the souls of canines and similar loyal creatures. These fiends often give these hellhounds as rewards to faithful followers—and sometimes to ones who are as yet unproven, but show great potential. Drawn to Power. Hellhounds tear the unworthy to shreds, but they show great loyalty and even tenderness to capable leaders who treat them well. Thus it’s unsurprising that hellhounds thrive under a powerful trainer. Fiends, fire giants, efreet, salamanders, and similar creatures commonly command their respect; in particular, fire giants often form lasting and loyal relationships with their hounds. Bent on Destruction. Without the steady hand of their trainer, hellhounds become more chaotic and destructive. Like a bad dog left alone, they lay ruin to anything and anyone they can bite or set aflame. Redemption. Though most hellhounds are formed from the souls of beasts, fiends sometimes sadistically bind fallen humanoid souls that were once good people but lost their way, forcing them to serve as hellhounds. In rare cases, such a hound can be redeemed if rescued at a young age by a kind and capable trainer who can lead the hound on a gentler path. Upon its death, a redeemed hellhound is freed from the Seven Cities of Hell and moves on to a better afterlife. Traits Crossfire. If a creature starts their turn within 10 feet of two or more curs, that creature takes 4 fire damage. Minion. If the cur takes damage from an attack or as the result of a failed saving throw, their hit points are reduced to 0. If the cur takes damage from another effect, they die if the damage equals or exceeds their hit point maximum; otherwise they take no damage. Actions Hellish Bite (Group Attack). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 fire damage, and if the target isn’t a hellhound and the attack was made by more than one cur, the target must make a Dexterity saving throw with a DC equal to 10 plus the number of curs who joined the attack. On a failed save, the target is lit on fire for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn), or until the target or another creature who can reach them uses an action to extinguish the flames. A creature who is on fire at the start of their turn takes fire damage equal to the number of curs who joined the attack. If a creature who is already on fire is set on fire again on a subsequent turn, the damage isn’t cumulative, but the duration of the fire resets to 1 minute.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

