# Hell Hound Archon

**description**: When hound archons fall, they transform into savage hell hound hybrids. Their fur ranges from black to muddy dark red. Their eyes gleam like embers, and flames lick from their mouths. They guard their master's citadels and hunt and track those who seek to escape from it. As their name implies, they can breathe fire, as well as transform into hell hounds. They are also often seen training and leading packs of hell hounds. Fallen Archons An archon always answers to a higher being: a superior archon, angel, and always to a Mount Celestial deity. It is expected to abide by and enforce the laws of its god. There are rare instances that an archon, just like its angel brethren, for some reason or another, would deviate from the stringent rules set for it. Depending on the gravity of its actions, an archon may be stripped of its station, banished from Mount Celestia, or even imprisoned. Such an archon has become a fallen archon. Fallen from Grace. Most fallen archons who are banished willingly live out their lives as mortals in the Material Plane, accepting it as a form of penitence. However, a few, having been twisted by their perverse pride, greed, and selfishness, become subversive and hide out in the Lower Planes. As they simmer in anger and hate, they become prone to temptation. Diabolical Transformation. Agents representing archdevils from the Nine Hells offer fallen archons a place where they can be respected, given power, and a chance to punish those that have wronged them. Those that accept sign a diabolical contract that binds their souls to Asmodeus and the Nine Hells. They transform and become corrupted shadows of their former selves and ultimately become devils. They lose some of their archon abilities but gain new, fiendish ones. Agents of the Nine Hells. Most fallen archons become soldiers of archdevils that recruited them. Others become assassins, agents, and spies. No matter their role, fallen archons are no longer bound by their conscience or morality and have become cruel, merciless, and unforgiving. Immortal Nature. A fallen archon doesn’t require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the fallen archon’s darkvision. Magic Resistance. The fallen archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The fallen archon makes three Buisine attacks, or makes one Buisine attack and casts one spell that takes 1 action to cast. Buisine. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. Spellcasting. The fallen archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: bane, darkness, detect evil and good, invisibility (self only) 3/day each: animate dead, banishment, bestow curse, contagion 1/day each: blade barrier, divine word, harm Teleport. The fallen archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Harbinger's Hymn (Recharge 5-6). The fallen archon plays its buisine to create a sound of utter horror and terrifying beauty. Each nonfiend creature within 120 feet that can hear the fallen archon must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature frightened in this way is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the fallen archon's Harbinger's Hymn for the next 24 hours. Buisine Blast (1/Day). The fallen archon blows its buisine to emit a thunderous blast in a 60-foot cone that is audible 600 feet away. Each creature in the cone must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 54 (12d8) thunder damage and is deafened for 1 minute. If a target's saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is also stunned until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t deafened. Creatures and objects made of glass or crystal have disadvantage on the saving throw and take 108 (24d8) thunder damage instead of 54 (12d8).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

