# Herald of Fire

**description**: From time to time, the gods send various emissaries and messengers out into the world. These Heralds have great power and a clear mission to enforce their creator's edicts and spread dogma in a concrete way. Boasting shining, golden claws and crimson robes and smelling of smoke and ash, the bipedal dragon strode through the burning city, pointing its golden claw at certain homes and businesses. In each place, the soldiers found golden plunder to load on the wagons. The herald of fire is a living embodiment of fiery justice and burnt sacrifices to the draconic gods. In most cases, the herald appears when some great sacrilege has been committed against the faith of fire, such as the withholding of taxes and tribute, or the slaughter of dragons and their kin, or desecration of a temple. Fiery Eyes and Magical Sword. Though the herald can assume the shape of a dragonborn, human, or kobold, it always has eyes filled with leaping flames, no matter its guise. This is far more obvious by night than in daylight. The herald often carries a magical sword of truth. It rarely uses this weapon in battle, for it is made of soft silver and inlaid with mithral and gold. However, all those near the sword find it quite difficult to lie. Quick to Anger. While a herald of fire does seek justice and tribute for the dragon gods, it is known for its propensity to anger at slight provocations. In many cases, its anger leads it to shout, stamp its clawed feet, or smash objects around it. In a few cases, it performs immediate and even fatal judgment on the source of its annoyance. Afterwards, it generally claims to have acted entirely within the law and dares others to gainsay it. Herald of Baal-Hotep The heralds of fire are better known as the heralds of Baal-Hotep in the Dragon Empire and sometimes in Nuria-Natal, Parthia, Beldestan, and Khandiria, where they have long served both as relatively reliable judges and as tax collectors of an extremely impatient kind. When the cortege of the herald of Baal-Hotep is sighted by a town, its smoke and fiery sparks make its imminent arrival obvious. The herald's most frequent companions are fire sorcerers, agnibarra , salamanders, and (occasionally) dragonborn light cavalry . Fire giants or masses of kobolds follow in a wagon train laden with treasure. Those who have been remiss in proffering various monies owed to the Dread Sultan, the morza, or other rulers may be dragged from their homes and given a last chance to settle their accounts. Those who value gold more than life or those who refuse to share the burdens and costs of the empire are taken to the square and burnt alive by a fire elemental summoned for that purpose. Their homes are then plundered thoroughly before being burnt to ashes. Such extreme cases are very rare, and they are most often ascribed to followers of Mammon or other dark gods. Once all accounts are settled, the herald of Baal-Hotep hears all cases brought before it. Any hairy servant, any slave, and any of the scaled folk can accuse anyone else of a crime and expect to hear a judgment; however, the temperament of the herald can be impulsive and prone to both melancholy and extreme vengeance, depending on the state of the settlement and its people--the richer the village or town, the more time the herald spends on sharp questioning and deduction. Accusations of corruption by the mighty are also treated with extreme seriousness, though a human peasant who accuses a dragon lord of some form of tax-skimming, cruelty, or neglect of the city's guards and people had best have an ironclad case; failure to convince a herald may result in judgment against the accuser. At the same time, the word of a herald of Baal-Hotep can and has destroyed even drakes and true dragons when their crimes, nepotism, and treachery are made plain.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

