# Hesperides

**description**: The seven daughters of the Titan Atlas and Hesperis, the goddess of the hour of evening and the tenth of the twelve Horae, the goddesses of the seasons and natural portions of time. This unique parentage gave them the title of the nymphs of sunset, as well as a measure of power beyond that of the more common nymphs. They were given the task to protect a very unique garden at the edge of the western world, which is known as the Garden of the Hesperides. Despite the garden carrying their name, in reality it belongs to Hera, who does not trust them with the duty of protecting her treasure: the golden apples of immortality. For this reason Ladon, the multi-headed dragon, was placed as a watchful guard alongside the nymphs. Eternal Dancers. It is said that those who encountered the nymph sisters would be invited to dance and frolic alongside them. Most would accept, allured by their inhuman beauty. Those same people would keep dancing until their bodies shut down, unable to keep them alive. Ageless Nature. The Hesperides do not age, but they can die just like other nymphs. Fey They are ever present in the Greek world. A variety of nymphs, satyrs and other nature spirits are present throughout many legends, some of them even being the parents of heroes and minor gods. Traits Magic Resistance. The hesperides has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sunset's Beauty. When a creature that can see the hesperides starts its turn within 40 ft. of her, the hesperides can force it to make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. Failure means that the creature is blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The Hesperides' Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). She can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: druidcraft, entangle 3/day each: dissonant whispers, faerie fire, tasha's mind whip (as a 4th-level spell) 2/day each: phantasmal killer, raulothim's psychic lance, sleep (as a 6th level spell) 1/day each: mental prison, synaptic static Songs of the Nymphs. The Hesperides can sing magical songs. Creatures with a Charisma score lower than 12 have disadvantage on saving throws against these songs. Sunset's Grace. While the Hesperides is wearing light or no armor and wielding no shield, her AC includes her Charisma modifier. Actions Song of Charming. Every creature within 300 feet of the Hesperides that can hear the song must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the song ends. While charmed by the Hesperides, a creature is incapacitated. The charmed creature must move towards the Hesperides using its full move and the most direct route without moving into damaging terrain. A charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns with a success ending the song's effect on it. Song of Eternal Dance. The Hesperides sings to a target within 60 feet. The target must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed. While charmed in this way the target must use all its movement to dance without leaving its space and has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws and attack rolls. While the target is affected by this song, other creatures have advantage on attack rolls against it. A creature can make another saving throw at the end of its turn to end the effect, but only if it has taken damage that turn. Song of Obsession. The Hesperides sings to a charmed target within 15 feet. The target must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become obsessed with the Hesperides. The target will defend her to the death against any of her enemies, even if those enemies are the creature's allies. A creature can make another saving throw at the end of its turn to end the effect, but only if it has taken damage that turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (nymph)
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

