# Hexemilie

**description**: TRAITS Shapechanger: Hexemilie can use her action to polymorph into a beast form that resembles a cat (speed 20 ft., climb 20 ft.), a female human (speed 30 ft.), or back into her true form. Her statistics are the same in each form, except for the speed changes noted. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. She reverts to her true form if she dies. Aura of Vanity: Hexemilie exudes a magical aura that makes creatures focus exclusively on their own plight. A creature that starts its turn within 120 feet of Hexemilie must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. Creatures immune to being charmed automatically succeed on this save. On a failure, the target can’t use the Help action or cast beneficial spells (such as bless or cure wounds ) on other creatures for 1 hour. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to Hexemilie’s Aura of Vanity for the next 24 hours. Dash: Hexemilie can take the Dash action as a bonus action on each of her turns. Keen Smell: Hexemilie has advantage on Wisdom (perception) checks that rely on smell. Legendary Resistance: If Hexemilie fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Standing Leap: Hexemilie’s long jump is 30 feet and her high jump is 15 feet, with or without a running start. Magical Resistance: Hexemilie has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Innate Spellcasting: Hexemilie casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: charm person, detect magic, dispel magic 3/day each: counterspell, darkness, dominate person, telekinesis, teleport 1/day each: bestow curse (9th-level), plane shift ACTIONS Multiattack: Hexemilie makes four attacks: one with her bite, two with her claws, and one with her tail. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage. Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. If Hexemilie hits with the same target with both claws, the target is also grappled (escape DC 13) Tail: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Possession (Recharge 6): One feline beast that Hexemilie can see within 5 feet of her must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by Hexemilie. Hexemilie then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. Hexemilie now controls the body but doesn’t deprive the target of awareness. Hexemilie can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except ones that affect possession, and she retains her alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. She gains the Innate Spellcasting trait (included above). She otherwise uses the possessed target’s statistics. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, Hexemilie ends it as a bonus action, or Hexemilie is forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, Hexemilie reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. Summon (1/Day): Hexemilie magically summons Jingles, her pet vrock . Jingles appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of Hexemilie and acts as Hexemilie’s ally. The vrock remains for 10 minutes, until it or Hexemilie dies, or until Hexemilie dismisses it as an action. Teleport: Hexemilie magically teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, to any unoccupied location she can see within 120 feet. LEGENDARY ACTIONS Hexemilie can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Hexemilie regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Move: Hexemilie moves up to her speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Tail Attack: Hexemilie makes a tail attack. Extend Claws (Costs 2 Actions): Hexemilie extends her claws, piercing a creature she is grappling. The creature takes 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage. Psionic Purr (Costs 2 Actions): Hexemilie purrs, creating a magical vibration in a 120-foot radius. Creatures Hexemilie chooses within that area must make a successful DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. Hexemilie then regains 27 (6d8) hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (demon, shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 20254
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Goodman Games

**book**: The Prism of Redemption (FEF 24)

