# Hexton Modron

**description**: A hexton modron (top), a septon modron (middle), and two octon modrons (bottom) oversee the smooth functioning of devices on the Plane of Mechanus. When the armies of Mechanus mobilize against the forces of chaos, hextons are the field generals who command modron troops. These hulking hierarchs lead groups of modrons in endeavors outside Mechanus, with the most notable example being the Great Modron March. Hextons have solid frames that bristle with six shining flanges. They boast a pair of arms and tentacles, both of which end in powerful pincers. “You wanna learn Modron? Yeah, I speak it. Lesson one: ‘beep boop.’ That means ‘Hello, friend, I mean you no harm.’ Really, I swears it!” —Morte, amid surely innocent snickering Modrons Constructed on the plane of Mechanus, modrons are partially mechanical beings that belong to a strict hierarchy. Each modron dutifully obeys commands from the rank directly above it and in turn acts as the superior to the rank directly below it, passing down commands from paragons of law to the lowliest monodrone. While most modrons are the lower-ranked base modrons—monodrones, duodrones, tridrones, quadrones, and pentadrones—the upper-tier hierarch modrons hold leadership positions, maintaining order in Mechanus and the realms beyond. For more information on modrons, see the Monst er Manual . “I’ve known a few modrons in my day. Most are gullible, harmless sorts. Watch out for those hierarch modrons, though. Not only can’t they take a joke, they’ll blame you for disrupting the lawful working of the multiverse then try to measure how much your powdered bones weigh. ” –Morte Traits Axiomatic Mind. The hexton can't be compelled to act in a manner contrary to its nature or its instructions. Combat Ready. The hexton has advantage on initative rolls. Disintegration. If the hexton dies, its body disintegrates into dust, leaving behind anything it was carrying. Legendary Resistance (4/Day). If the hexton fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spellcasting. The hexton casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: detect magic , dispel magic , mending (as an action) 1/day each: plane shift (self only), protection from evil and good Actions Multiattack. The hexton makes one Pincer attack and two Tentacle attacks. Pincer. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) force damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or have the incapacitated condition until the end of its next turn. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) piercing damage, and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the grappled condition (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the hexton can't use this tentacles against other targets. The hexton has six tentacles, each of which can grapple one target. Reactions The hexton can take up to three reactions per round but only one per turn. Counter Magic. The hexton attempts to interrupt a creature it can see that is casting a spell. If the spell is 3rd level or lower, it fails and has no effect. If the spell is 4th level or higher, the hexton makes an Intelligence check (DC 10 + the spell's level). On a success, the spell fails and has no effect. Lightning Rebuke. When a creature within 120 feet of the hexton damages it, the hexton magically retaliates with an arc of lightning. The creature must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. “You ever notice how certain modrons sort of look like some kind of wacky dice?” –Morte

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: construct
- Alignment: typically lawful neutral
- Expansion: 26427
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Planescape - Adventures in the Multiverse

