# Hierocosphinx

**description**: Sphinx, Lesser As the name implies, lesser sphinxes are less powerful than their cousins, the better-known gynosphinxes and androsphinxes. Rather than having a humanoid head like greater sphinxes, hierocosphinxes resemble birds of prey, while criosphinxes possess features that resemble horned sheep. Despite their animal visages, lesser sphinxes are eloquent and wise. Some scholars speculate that it is possible for a lesser sphinx to change into gynosphinx or an androsphinx over time. Lesser sphinxes often serve greater sphinxes, forming a small pride led by a greater sphinx or a designated lieutenant. However, instead of guarding a location alongside their gynosphinx or androsphinx master, lesser sphinxes are given the task of protecting a separate area. Usually nearby, these auxiliary locations lie along the path to the primary place of stewardship. They provide additional challenges to supplicants in search of the greater sphinxes. Although lesser sphinxes are bound to guard a particular location like their greater counterparts, they do not have access to lair actions. However, lesser sphinxes are able to utilize their connections to the primordial powers of time in their own ways. Like greater sphinxes, some lesser sphinxes eventually grow weary of their responsibilities as guardians and break away from their divine command. Unlike androsphinxes and gynosphinxes, lesser sphinxes can wander far away from their former dens, finding new places for themselves in the world at large. Such cases are very rare, but unbound sphinxes have been known to found and lead humanoid groups. Special Abililty: Time Mark The lesser sphinxes have powers that interact with their ability to mark time. This time marking only works if detailed notes are kept by the Game Master. When a sphinx uses time mark, make sure to write down hit points, effects, and positions of all of the creatures impacted. Hierocosphinx Where criosphinxes embody the sanguine or optimistic aspect of the sphinx, the hawk-headed hierocosphinx tends toward the choleric or plain bad tempered. Many of these creatures are lawful evil in alignment and created to serve the commands of evil deities. Unbound hierocosphinxes usually choose a life of angry solitude, though some become great tyrants over lesser creatures. While a criosphinx presents adventurers with exacting challenges out of pride and devotion to its master, the hierocosphinx may deny a supplicant their due reward—even if they have completed its task—out of pure spite. The hierocosphinx justifies its actions in such cases by pedantry: any deviation from doing the task exactly as explained will allow the hierocosphinx to declare it a failure. Sometimes mistaken for griffons, hierocosphinxes are easily distinguished by their leonine manes and forelegs. The intelligence of griffons and hierocosphinxes is a stark contrast between the two: griffons are unintelligent, while hierocosphinxes are fully sapient beings mentally similar to humans. Even though they are different, griffons and hierocosphinxes have been known to interbreed. Any offspring possess a random patchwork of feline and avian features, and rarely show any hierocosphinx intelligence. Example: Using Time Mark & Replay Time A hierocosphinx can use time mark to record a fireball, and then when replay time is used, the wizard casting the spell might hit all of his companions by accident.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: lawful neutral (50%), lawful evil (50%)
- Expansion: 4963
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

