# High Deathpriest of Orcus

**description**: Cultists of Orcus Of all of the demon lords of the Abyss, Orcus, the Demon Prince of Undeath, claims the largest amount of followers. It has therefore spawned scores of cults with diversified objectives, but all fall under three major doctrines. Necromantic Practitioners. The first one is mastery of necromancy, which is the most common type of cult of Orcus. Members of this type of cult are mages and priests who seek power over mortality, utilizing undead minions to further their goals and aspirations. Undead Master Race. The second doctrine is the support of undeath or power over the living. The majority of its members are undead themselves and seek to add more to its ranks while those who are alive use the remainder of their mortal lives to infiltrate and set up shop in major cities to establish a steady source of fresh bodies. Members of these types of cults are undead that require sustenance, knowledge, or the arts, such as vampires and liches, and other intelligent undead. Insane Nihilists. The third most common doctrine is the true goal of Orcus, which is to seek an end to all life in the cosmos, replacing the living with the undead who serve only him. Cult members of this type are mostly insane, deranged, and suicidal. Those that work in large groups carry out mass murders, attacking small villages and hamlets, while those that work in smaller groups or individually, operate like serial killers and hide in plain sight within bustling and thriving cities. Deathpriests. The majority of divine spellcasters who worship Orcus, no matter the doctrine, call themselves deathpriests. Blessed by the Prince of Undeath, they can cast necromantic spells that are normally only available to arcane spellcasters. Traits Aura of Death. The high deathpriest emanates a deathly aura that extends 30 feet in every direction from its space while it isn't incapacitated. The aura is blocked by total cover. While in the aura, the high deathpriest and any Undead ally are immune to the frightened condition and have resistance to radiant damage. Enemies suffer disadvantage on death saving throws while in the aura. Undying Soul (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If the high deathpriest is reduced to 0 hit points, it immediately makes a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. lf it succeeds, it is instead reduced to 1 hit point. Actions Multiattack. The high deathpriest makes two Sickle attacks or two Necrotic Bolt attacks. Sickle. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) necrotic damage, and the target can’t regain hit points until the start of the high deathpriest's next turn. Spellcasting. The deathpriest casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks): At will: guidance, resistance, thaumaturgy 2/day each: blindness/deafness, false life, vampiric touch 1/day each: animate dead (as an action) banishment, circle of death, cloudkill, contagion

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Neutral Evil or Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

