# Hobgoblin Monarch

**description**: The hobgoblin monarch is a shrewd, calculating general who rose from the ranks of soldiers and won favor from the goblin deity Maglubiyet. It is revered by almost all goblinoids and can command all goblinoid armies within its region. Physically imposing and a true master in the art of war, the hobgoblin monarch commands its allies with both confidence and brutal efficiency. Traits Aura of Fervor. The hobgoblin's allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against being charmed and frightened while within 20 feet of the hobgoblin, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the hobgoblin fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Martial Advantage (1/Turn). The hobgoblin can deal an extra 17 (5d6) damage to a creature it hits with a weapon attack if that creature is within 5 feet of an ally of the hobgoblin and that ally isn't incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The hobgoblin makes two Greatsword attacks. It can use Maneuver Allies or Hold the Line in place of one Greatsword attack. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. Maneuver Allies (Recharge 5–6). Up to four allies within 60 feet of this hobgoblin that can hear it can each use their reaction to move up to half their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Hold the Line! (1/Day). The hobgoblin targets each goblinoid creature of its choice that is within 60 feet of it, can hear it, is within 5 feet of an ally of the hobgoblin and that ally isn't incapacitated and not already affected by Hold the Line. Until the end of the hobgoblin's next turn, creatures provoke an opportunity attack from the target when they move 5 feet or more while within the target's reach, and if the target hits a creature with an opportunity attack, the creature's speed is reduced to 0 until the end of the current turn. Unleash Hell! (1/Day). Up to 6 goblinoid allies of the hobgoblin's choice that is within 60 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by Unleash Hell can use their reaction to move up to half their speed and make one weapon attack. Legendary Actions The hobgoblin can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The hobgoblin regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The hobgoblin moves up to half its speed. Greatsword (Costs 2 Actions). The hobgoblin makes a Greatsword attack. Tactical Edge (Cost 2 Actions). Roll a d6 for the hobgoblin. The number rolled on the die is subtracted from the next attack roll made against the hobgoblin or an ally of its choice within the next minute. Command Allies (Costs 1-3 Actions). The hobgoblin chooses up to 3 allies it can see within 60 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the hobgoblin, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack. It costs 1 legendary action per target. Reactions General's Guidance (Recharge 4–6). When a creature the hobgoblin can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll or saving throw, and the creature can hear the hobgoblin, the hobgoblin rolls 1d10 and adds the result to the attack roll or saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Goblinoid)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

