# Hoch Miraz

**description**: Hoch Miraz was a Calishite wizard looking to make his fortune in the mining industry on the island of Gundarlun. In around 1330 DR (more than a century and a half ago), Hoch Miraz was aboard the Golden Crown, a treasure vessel headed back from the mines of Berranzo, when a vicious storm struck the coast and sunk the ship. Since the sahuagin have taken up host in the shipwreck, Hoch has been stirring in his watery grave. The mage is close to an undead reanimation, and he won’t be happy to discover his staff of the magi missing. Undead Nature. Hoch Miraz doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Hoch Miraz Traits Ideal. “Being dead doesn’t mean anything, once I have my staff back I’ll work something out.” Bond. “My staff of the magi must be returned to me, without it I can’t hope to rebuild my reputation.” Flaw. “Once I decide on a plan of action, I cannot be swayed from it.” Traits Special Equipment. Hoch Miraz wears a ring of swimming and a ring of spell turning . While wearing the latter, Hoch Miraz has advantage on saving throws against any spell that targets only him (not in an area of effect). In addition, if Hoch Miraz rolls a 20 for the save and the spell is 7th level or lower, the spell has no effect on him and instead targets the caster, using the slot level, spell save DC, attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the caster. Spellcasting. Hoch Miraz is a 9th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). Hoch Miraz has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): fire bolt , light , mage hand , prestidigitation 1st level (4 slots): detect magic , mage armor , magic missile , shield 2nd level (3 slots): misty step , suggestion 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell , fireball , fly 4th level (3 slots): greater invisibility , ice storm 5th level (1 slot): cone of cold Regeneration. Hoch Miraz regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If Hoch Miraz takes fire or radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the Hoch Miraz’s next turn. Hoch Miraz’s body is destroyed only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Rejuvenation. When Hoch Miraz’s body is destroyed, its soul lingers. After 24 hours, the soul inhabits and animates another corpse on the same plane of existence and regains all its hit points. While the soul is bodiless, a wish spell can be used to force the soul to go to the afterlife and not return. Turn Immunity. Hoch Miraz is immune to effects that turn undead. Vengeful Tracker. Hoch Miraz knows the distance to and direction of any creature against which he seeks revenge, even if the creature and Hoch Miraz are on different planes of existence. If the creature being tracked by Hoch Miraz dies, Hoch Miraz knows. Actions Multiattack. Hoch Miraz makes two fist attacks. Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature against which Hoch Miraz has sworn vengeance, the target takes an extra 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage. Instead of dealing damage, Hoch Miraz can grapple the target (escape DC 11) provided the target is Large or smaller. Vengeful Glare. Hoch Miraz targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it and against which it has sworn vengeance. The target must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target is paralysed until Hoch Miraz deals damage to it, or until the end of Hoch Miraz’s next turn. When the paralysis ends, the target is frightened of Hoch Miraz for 1 minute. The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if it can see Hoch Miraz, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

