# Horned Devil Warmaster

**description**: Even more fearsome and terrible than the normal horned devil, these malebranches have been built, trained, and bred for war. They live for battle and relish diving into the thick of the fight surrounded by their foes so they can shred them to pieces with their long sweeping spiked chains. Unlike the common horned devils, the warmasters have access to magic and unleash fireball and lightning bolt spells when outnumbered. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the devil's darkvision. Magic Resistance. The devil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The devil makes three attacks: two with its Spiked Chain and one with its Tail. It can use its Hurl Flame or Spiked Chain Slam in place of one Spiked Chain attack. Spiked Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) slashing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the devil can automatically hit the target with its Spiked Chain but can't make Spiked Chain attacks against other targets. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). If the target is a creature other than an Undead or a Construct, it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or lose 10 (3d6) hit points at the start of each of its turns due to an infernal wound. Each time the devil hits the wounded target with this attack, the damage dealt by the wound increases by 10 (3d6). Any creature can take an action to stanch the wound with a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Medicine) check. The wound also closes if the target receives magical healing. Hurl Flame. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 150 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) fire damage. If the target is a flammable object that isn't being worn or carried, it also catches fire. Spiked Chain Slam. The devil slams a Large or smaller creature grappled by its spiked chain into another creature or a solid surface within 20 feet. Both creatures must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or take 17 (2d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Spellcasting. The devil casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: darkness, detect magic 3/day each: dispel magic, magic circle (as an action) 2/day each: fireball, lightning bolt 1/day: programmed illusion Spiked Chain Sweep (Recharge 5–6). The devil swings its Spiked Chain, and every creature within 20 feet of it must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed saving throw, a creature takes 28 (4d10 + 6) slashing damage and, if it is Large or smaller, is knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. The devil can't use this feature if it has a creature grappled by its Spiked Chain. Teleport. The devil magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Legendary Actions The devil can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The devil regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The devil moves up to half its speed. Attack. The devil makes one Spiked Chain, Tail, or Hurl Flame attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The devil uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The devil uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

