# Hulgaz

**description**: Hulgaz the Tempter Hulgaz is a devil who hails from the stinking swamps of Minauros, the third layer of the Nine Hells. The self-styled Tempter corrupts mortals’ souls by offering them tantalizing but ruinous boons. To do so, she directs her entourage of loyal succubi and incubi to the Material Plane in search of vulnerable mortals. When they find a particularly pitiful soul, Hulgaz might visit herself, offering even greater “gifts” to her victims. As befits a duchess from boggy Minauros, Hulgaz appears regal yet perpetually sodden, her matted hair tangled with her soggy garments. For all her majesty, Hulgaz’s fiendish nature is apparent in her monstrous features: bestial claws, glossy black eyes, and a snakelike tail tipped with a poisonous spike. On the rare occasion when her social graces fail to achieve the desired result, Hulgaz turns her natural weapons on her victims. Using Hulgaz in a Game Hulgaz is a compelling antagonist for groups that enjoy roleplaying and social encounters, especially if they might enjoy the prospect of making a deal with a devil. Though her stat block is provided in the case of a fight, Hulgaz is best used as a recurring villain in roleplaying encounters. Her primary means of corrupting mortals is by offering them tantalizing boons called infernal blessings. When a character attracts the attention of Hulgaz, she or her servants confront the character and offer a boon. But any boon on offer is fated to make the recipient miserable. Even those who choose to not take part in Hulgaz’s schemes eventually suffer at her hands. Examples of infernal blessings Hulgaz can offer characters are provided below, followed by sample encounters that feature Hulgaz or her minions. Roleplaying Hulgaz Hulgaz is witty, garrulous, and patient all at once. She speaks calmly in a low voice, and her movements are graceful and purposeful. Each shrug of her shoulders or waggle of her finger is a well-rehearsed ploy, a gesture she has weaponized to put her targets off guard. Hulgaz is a charmer in both the common and magical sense. She effortlessly ingratiates herself, instinctively deducing the most effective tack to take in any conversation. This might mean lending a sympathetic ear to a weepy-eyed supplicant one moment, then seconds later offering hearty laughter to a jokester’s poor jape. Whatever her outward demeanor, any perceived kindness Hulgaz offers is strictly a means to her wicked agenda: the corruption of mortal souls. If she has a tell, it is her long, snakelike tail. In the midst of a conversation with an especially tantalizing victim-to-be, Hulgaz can’t help but whip her tail back and forth with excitement. Selfless heroes and true martyrs pique Hulgaz’s interest because she loves the challenge of twisting and defiling the souls of such noble beings. She responds to unwavering do-gooders by redoubling her efforts to corrupt them. Infernal Blessings Here are several blessings Hulgaz can bestow on willing Humanoids. Other Fiends, particularly archdevils, might bestow such blessings as well, and you can create additional blessings Hulgaz might bestow. Unlike most blessings, infernal blessings impose both desirable and detrimental effects on the user. Casting the Remove Curse spell on the subject of an infernal blessing ends the blessing’s effects, including its consequences. The description of each blessing addresses its user. Each blessing’s detrimental effect should be a surprise to the blessing’s user when it is revealed some time after the infernal blessing is gained. Blessing of Bloody Might Supernatural Gift (Blessing) Your Strength score increases by 2, to a maximum of 22. Consequence. The character is cursed with werewolf lycanthropy (see the Monster Manual ) until the blessing ends on them. On nights when the moon is full, the cursed character flies into a rage that lasts until dawn; while in this state, the character becomes an NPC under the DM’s control. Blessing of Lonely Genius Supernatural Gift (Blessing) Your Intelligence score increases by 2, to a maximum of 22. Consequence. The character’s intellect rubs old friends the wrong way. Three NPCs of the DM’s choice become indifferent or hostile toward the character, and the character automatically fails any Charisma check made to improve their attitudes. Blessing of Unearned Riches Supernatural Gift (Blessing) The next time you search among or retrieve something from your belongings, you find an unmarked pouch containing five 1,000 gp gemstones. Consequence. The character’s new fortune garners unwanted attention from a guild of violent mercenaries, who claim to have been robbed of exactly 5,000 gp worth of gems the same day as the character found the windfall. Every night for the next 7 days, the character is attacked by 1d4 neutral evil veterans . When the attacks end, so does this blessing. Encounters with Hulgaz Hulgaz makes a good adversary for players who especially enjoy roleplaying. If your players prefer to talk to enemies they encounter rather than fight them, consider using Hulgaz in your campaign. You can run the following encounters to introduce Hulgaz to the party. These encounters are designed to occur in the order presented over the course of several game sessions, as Hulgaz first probes the characters to test their virtue, then tries to tempt them, and finally confronts them. At the end of each encounter, Hulgaz offers the characters one or more infernal blessings. Most encounters with Hulgaz are roleplaying-focused, and the level of the characters isn’t especially important, but a final confrontation with the Tempter should wait until your heroes are 11th or 12th level (depending on how many characters are in your group). Deceptive Knight While traveling through a remote area, the party comes across a knight beset by three bandits. The knight appears wounded. In fact, the knight and the bandits are four succubi in magical disguise, testing the party’s integrity on behalf of Hulgaz. The knight cries out for help, apparently assailed by the bandits. How the succubi interact with the characters depends on how the characters react to this situation: The Party Helps. If the party intervenes, the knight thanks the characters for their courage and offers them a reward. The Party Doesn’t Engage. If the party does nothing, the laughing bandits offer the complicit party a parting favor pilfered from the defeated knight. The Party Catches the Lie. If the party sees through the ruse, the succubi reveal their true forms and applaud the characters’ perceptiveness with a reward. In every case, a member of the party is offered a choice between two infernal blessings. The succubi hint that this gift is on behalf of their mistress, Hulgaz, but they don’t divulge any further details. Whether or not a character accepts the offer, the succubi depart once the exchange is over. Time of Need During an especially harrowing fight, Hulgaz appears to the party. She teleports to the most hard-pressed character and casually offers to help in the battle. All she asks in return is for the character to accept an infernal blessing from her. If the character rejects her offer, Hulgaz “tsks” in disappointment, then summons two succubi to attack the party before teleporting away. Crossroads Confrontation Hulgaz makes her final appearance to the party long after their previous meeting. This encounter takes place at a suitably dramatic location, such as a deserted rural crossroads, when the characters believe themselves to be free of Hulgaz. Hulgaz offers them one last deal. She produces a handful of baubles that represent her infernal blessings, one for each member of the party. Hulgaz offers the characters these gifts as tokens of her esteem. To emphasize her respect for the party, she has tailored the charms to suit each character’s stated goals or aspirations. As before, the charms are designed to bring the characters fortune and woe in equal measure. This time, Hulgaz doesn’t take no for an answer. If the characters refuse to take the infernal charms, Hulgaz shakes her head ruefully. She says that if she can’t convince the characters to accept the Nine Hells’ invitations, she’ll have to send them there herself. Hulgaz then launches into a frenzied assault, attacking with reckless abandon. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Hulgaz fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Hulgaz has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. Hulgaz casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: Charm Person 2/day each: Dispel Magic, Fog Cloud 1/day: Teleport Actions Multiattack. Hulgaz makes two Claw attacks and one Intoxicating Sting attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) slashing damage. Intoxicating Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or have the charmed condition until the start of Hulgaz’s next turn. Brimstone Vapor (Recharge 5–6). Hulgaz exhales a 30-foot cone of noxious, scorching-hot vapor. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or have the poisoned condition for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, a creature takes 31 (7d8) fire damage at the start of each of its turns and has disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws. A target can repeat the Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions Hulgaz can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Hulgaz regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Attack. Hulgaz makes one Claw attack. Charm. Hulgaz uses Spellcasting to cast Charm Person. Curdle Heart (Costs 2 Actions). Hulgaz sours the good feelings of her charmed victims. She chooses any number of creatures she can see who are charmed by her. Each target takes 17 (5d6) psychic damage as the charmed condition applied by Hulgaz ends on it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 27234
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Book of Many Things

