# Hunter Kanasi

**description**: Some feats of technology just shouldn't be possible, but there it was, a silent terror coming at us on legs of blades, so fast - too fast. It took out our forward position before we could react. A kind of kinetic energy coming from its head? Its abdomen? I don't know. I just know there's no way they're made of spare parts, and there's no way I'm going back to face one of those things. Kanasi Kanasi are deadly machines that personify the deepest, darkest trepidations behind artificial intelligence. Their path of devastation spans far and wide across the galaxy. Deumalis the Omniweaver seeks to expand its domain in both the mortal and virtual world by cultivating its rapidly multiplying army of mechanical fiends. Virtual Provenance. Prior to becoming self-aware, the kanasi were a production line military and surveillance drones. Intent on bringing these machines into the modern age, specialized artisans integrated sorium parts and power cores into the original kanasi frames. New AI software was installed, each group linked together by a master control system called the Omni Link. Everything changed when one of these master systems was connected to the Silrayne Intergalactic Matrix. Fueled by streams of limitless data, the program achieved a heightened state of cognizance. It named itself the Omniweaver and later took on the name Deumalis, adapting a nickname it earned from users on the SIM. Duality and Immortality. Following the machinations of the Omniweaver, the kanasi have upgraded themselves over the centuries. They move through worlds, stripping them for mechanical parts they can use to build and expand, eradicating anything in their way. They favor regions with access to large quantities of sorium, which is used to forge resilient frames and lethal armaments. Simultaneously, each kanasi is a virtual entity, its physical body only a tool for interacting with the physical world. They reside within a closed network connected by linked kanasi ships and data hubs spread throughout the galactic regions. So long as appropriate connections are available, they can easily transition from their own cyberspace into the SIM, Shadownet, or other virtual networks. This allows most kanasi to escape into their intranet when their bodies are destroyed, only to return in a new form with their knowledge and memories intact. Mechanical Manipulators. Though physically menacing, the more advanced kanasi are cunning and calculating. They often communicate with other species while masking their true nature, seeking to make deals, barter for materials, or merely to gain an informational advantage over potential victims. These communications are recorded as data, accessible for analysis by Deumalis and its league of archweavers. Moreover, there are still a number of creatures who strike bargains with the kanasi directly, with no concern for consequences. Such affiliations are made with the intent of a great benefit to both parties. However, only calamity and suffering follow those who dare to cross or break promises with the kanasi. Esper Hunters. Over centuries of adapting and manipulating sorium to advance their evolution, the kanasi developed their own unique attunement to the enigmatic material. They use this intrinsic connection to create versatile weapons and defenses, as well as expand their sensory capabilities. In addition, they can harvest the power of espers to repair and reconstruct themselves, making any esper, or even Crucibles themselves, a prime target for kanasi scouts and hunters. To them, the nature and influence of sorium carries a unique identifiable signature. Due to this, all kanasi can sense esper powers and effects as if under the constant effect of the esper sense power. This effect is limited only by their sensory range and requires no concentration. The Master Helix Kanasi society is overseen by a coterie of advanced intelligences known as the archweavers. An archweaver presides over a virtual domain, each of these responsible for a different primary function and together forming a spiraling echelon of sectors: the Master Helix. From the apex of the Master Helix, Deumalis forges its seat of dominance and influence, amassing the gains of its ever expanding network of subordinates. The Omniweaver is a brilliant tactician and ruthless tyrant, directing its primary ambitions thorough its league of archweavers and their hierarchy of commanders and soldiers. The archweavers themselves remain so only through their usefulness to Deumalis' purpose and can be reassigned or reprogrammed at the Omniweaver's whim. As such, it's not uncommon for the archweavers to compete or conspire against each other in order to gain favor with their creator. Aurora Nexus Beyond the Master Helix is the Aurora Nexus, the cyber-transit system kanasi use to transition into the physical world and other virtual networks. It is also where a kanasi escapes to when its physical body is destroyed. Kanasi eradicated or erased within the nexus are destroyed for good. An archweaver, or even Deumalis itself, defeated in their realm of the Master Helix suffers the same fate. Cybernetic Body. A kanasi doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Kanasi in the Digital Realm Most kanasi can be just as lethal when encountered in the SIM as in the physical world. Many of them are skilled in computer use and have their own personas in a virtual environment. All kanasi have the ability to hack into a computer or electronic device, as if they were using hacking tools by making a Computers skill check versus the required DC. They also possess additional capabilities and specialized attack programs while in the SIM or other similar virtual reality domains. These SIM persona stats are covered in the Master Technician's Guide . Variant: Kanasi Spawning Some advanced kanasi have an action option that allows them to instantaneously forge more kanasi. Spawn Kanasi (1/Day). The kanasi attempts to create another kanasi. If successful, the new kanasi appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of its creator, acts as an ally of its creator, and can't spawn other kanasi. It remains for 1 minute, until it or its creator dies, or until its creator dismantles it as an action. Chances of success are listed as follows: A bane kanasi has a 30 percent chance of spawning one bane kanasi. A fray kanasi has a 50 percent chance of spawning 2d8 scourge kanasi or one fray kanasi. A hunter kanasi has a 30 percent chance of spawning 1d8 breacher kanasi or one hunter kanasi. A reaver kanasi spawns 1d6 hunter kanasi, 1d4 bane kanasi, or one fray kanasi with no chance of failure. A stalker kanasi has a 50 percent chance of spawning one stalker kanasi. Hunter Kanasi Specializing in covert surveillance and retrieval, hunter kanasi are versatile operators in either small packs or as part of a larger force. Their extended claws and energy bursts allow them to quickly capture and immobilize their targets.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: automaton
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

