# Hvalfiskr

**description**: The massive being breaches the ice, twisting through frigid water and revealing a blue-skinned upper body merged with the tail of a huge whale. It sang a mind-numbing song and twirled an anchor at the end of a barnacled chain. Giantkin of the cold seas, the hvalfiskr are massive in size, few in number, and capable of transforming themselves into whales. In battle, hvalfiskr are as ferocious and mercurial as wintry squalls. Whale Guardians. Hvalfiskr see themselves as guardians of cold seas and whales. Explorers and merchants find them excellent sources of information about the regions they inhabit, but whalers find them terrifying. When a ship enters a hvalfiskr's territory, the giant follows the ship to determine its destination and purpose, singing entrancing songs to drive sailors mad. Echolocation (Whale Form Only). The hvalfiskr can't use its blindsight while deafened. Hold Breath. The hvalfiskr can hold its breath for 1 hour. Speak with Cetaceans. The hvalfiskr can communicate with dolphins, porpoises, and whales as if they shared a language. Actions Multiattack. The hvalfiskr makes four Bite or Slam attacks, or it makes three Chained Anchor attacks. Bite (Whale Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (5d6 + 6) piercing damage. Chained Anchor (Giant or Hybrid Form Only). Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft. or range 30/60 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (5d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage, and the anchor hooks around the target. While hooked by the anchor, the target and the hvalfiskr can't move further than 60 feet from each other. A creature, including the target, can take its action to detach the anchor by succeeding on a DC 19 Strength check. Alternatively, the anchor's chain can be attacked and destroyed (AC 18; hp 50; vulnerability to thunder damage; immunity to piercing, poison, and psychic damage), dislodging the anchor into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the target and preventing the hvalfiskr from using Reel Anchor. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (4d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Whale Song (Recharge 5-6). The hvalfiskr sings a magical melody. Each hostile creature within 60 feet of the hvalfiskr that can hear the song must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 45 (10d8) psychic damage and is charmed for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't charmed. A charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it also suffers short-term madness. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The hvalfiskr transforms into a Huge frost giant, a Huge whale, or back into its true form, which is a whale-giant hybrid. Its statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying transforms with it. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Reel Anchor. The hvalfiskr pulls on the chain connected to its anchor, returning the anchor to its empty hand. If the anchor is hooked around a creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 30 feet toward the hvalfiskr.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

