# Hydralisk

**description**: It is said that the first hydras were spawned from the blood of the dragon god Lernaea when the latter was slain by Tiamat. One of the droplets landed on a clutch of basilisk eggs, corrupting them and spawning the first set of hydralisks. Fearsome Abomination. At first glance, the hydralisk has the appearance of a typical hydra - a reptilian monster with multiple serpentine-like necks ending with draconic heads. However, a closer inspection reveals its other lineage - eight pairs of legs, bluish, slate-like scaly hide, maroon-colored stony spikes jutting from the back of its heads, necks, and spine, and an almost toad-like head. The hydralisk's eyes glow a faint blue and thin greenish gas seep from its maws. Petrifying Gaze. The hydralisk is as ponderous as a basilisk but also retains its ability to transform prey into stone with its supernatural gaze. Like a basilisk, a hydralisk consumes petrified creatures. The latter revert back to their organic forms once they reach the hydralisk's gullet. Unlike regular basilisks, a hydralisk is immune to petrification and thus cannot accidentally turn itself into stone if the eyes of its many heads meet each other's gazes. Regenerating Heads. What makes a hydralisk even more dangerous, is its ability to instantly regrow severed heads. Like a hydra, one must apply fire to the hydra's neck stump in order to stop a head from regenerating. Doing so however greatly increases the risk of meeting the monster's gaze. This is why very few escape an encounter with a hydralisk. Thankfully, a hydralisk is very rare. It can live in dry, temperate, or tropical environments. Traits Hold Breath. The hydralisk can hold its breath for 1 hour. Multiple Heads. The hydralisk has five heads. While it has more than one head, the hydralisk has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious, and the DC of its Petrifying Gaze is increased by 1 (included in the Petrifying Gaze's DC). Whenever the hydralisk takes 15 or more damage in a single turn, one of its heads dies. If all its heads die, the hydralisk dies. At the end of its turn, it grows two heads for each of its heads that died since its last turn, unless it has taken fire damage since its last turn. The hydralisk regains 5 hit points for each head regrown in this way. Petrifying Gaze. If a creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the hydralisk and the two of them can see each other, the hydralisk can force the creature to make a DC 16 (DC 15 if it only has one head) Constitution saving throw if the hydralisk isn't incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature magically begins to turn to stone and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the creature is petrified until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. A creature that isn't surprised can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If it does so, it can't see the hydralisk until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If it looks at the hydralisk in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. Reactive Heads. For each head the hydralisk has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Wakeful. While the hydralisk sleeps, at least one of its heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The hydralisk makes as many Bite attacks as it has heads. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

