# Hyphan

**description**: A helpful fungal friend, the hyphan’s climbing ability makes it especially useful for dusting those hard-to-reach corners. It’s also very good at stopping bar fights; it has a real calming presence. I just have to remember to put him in the basement when we want to really let loose and break some furniture. — Heliana, Tavern Brawler Type : Plant Creature Component : Fungal heart Bonus Tamer Improvement : Helpful and +2 Hit Dice Always keen to offer aid, hyphans make excellent support companions, both on the battlefield and emotionally. Able to calm intense emotions, charm aggressors, and disappear into the earth, they are experts in de-escalation and can aid a party’s escape by lacing large areas with necrotising puffballs. If any of the hyphan’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the hyphan’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the hyphan’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the hyphan the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Helpful Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the hyphan takes the Help action. The hyphan gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Detritivore Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the hyphan can drain one Small or larger corpse within its reach, regaining hit points equal to twice its tamer’s level. Once the hyphan has used this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. A corpse can be drained by this or similar abilities only once. Growth Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The hyphan’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage of its Poison Spray increases to 2d12 . Hallucispores Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (reaction) As a reaction when the hyphan takes damage, it can jettison out a cloud of spores. Each creature within 10 feet of it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the hyphan until the end of its next turn. The hyphan has a number of uses of this ability equal to its Constitution modifier (minimum 1) and regains all expended uses when its tamer finishes a long rest. Puffballs I Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the hyphan can cause two 10-foot squares of dirt, rock, or wood it can see within 60 feet of it to sprout tiny puffball mushrooms, which last for 1 hour or until the hyphan dismisses them as an action. The squares must be contiguous with one another. When a creature enters the area, the 10-foot square of puffballs explodes, disappearing into a cloud of spores. Each non-hyphan creature in the area or within 5 feet of the area must make a Constitution saving throw , taking 13 ( 2d12 ) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After the hyphan uses this action, it can’t do so again until the tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the hyphan’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the hyphan can create one additional 10-foot square of puffballs (three total), and the damage increases to 19 ( 3d12 ). Damp Dark Dweller Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer, Detritivore Type : Passive (companion & tamer) The hyphan has immunity to necrotic damage. In addition, while the hyphan is summoned, its tamer has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet . If its tamer already has darkvision, the range is increased by 30 feet . Fungal Fruits Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Active ( 1 minute ) Over the course of a minute , the hyphan can grow a random assortment of mushrooms on its body. Each time it does this, roll a d4 twice and consult the options below to determine which two mushrooms grow. Bloomshroom . As an action, a creature can eat this mushroom, regaining 2d4 + 2 hit points and gaining advantage on all Constitution saving throws for 1 minute . Boomshroom. As an action, a creature can throw this volatile mushroom at a point it can see within 60 feet of it, where it explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere of flames. Each creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw , taking 14 ( 4d6 ) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire ignites flammable objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried. Doomshroom. As an action, a creature can throw this dusky mushroom at a point it can see within 60 feet of it, where it explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere of purple spores. Each creature in the area must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or become afflicted by the bane spell for 1 minute (concentration not required). An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Gloomshroom. As an action, a creature can eat this mushroom. For the next hour , it gains darkvision out to a range of 60 feet . If it already has darkvision, the range of this vision is increased by 30 feet . The mushrooms last until the hyphan’s tamer next finishes a long rest, but lose all magical effects 10 minutes after they are plucked. You can pluck a mushroom as part of the action to use it. After the hyphan uses this trait, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Multihelp Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Helpful Type : Active (action) When the hyphan takes the Disengage action, it can take the Help action up to three times on that turn as part of the same action. After it uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Puffballs II Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Puffballs I Type : Active (action) When the hyphan uses its Puffballs action, it can create an additional 10-foot square of puffball mushrooms, for a total of four 10-foot squares. The damage they deal increases to 26 ( 4d12 ). The hyphan gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the hyphan’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the hyphan can create one additional 10-foot square of puffballs (five total), and the damage increases to 32 ( 5d12 ). Mycelial Reconstitution Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the hyphan can dissolve into mycelia, ending the grappled and restrained conditions on it and reappearing in an unoccupied space on the ground it can see within 30 feet of it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: plant
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

