# Hypnagoug

**description**: Don't let it in! —Samuel, The Babadook Nasty amorphous Aberrations native to the Astral Plane, hypnagougs are a plague to sleepers the world over. For Individuals, they’re nearly always fatal. For adventuring parties, or any large group of people sleeping close together, these literal nightmares unleash something much, much worse. Unfortunately for them, and everyone else, they have no natural food source in their native plane. To feed, they anchor a portion of themselves in the Material Plane, drinking deep of the Dreams and nightmares of sapient beings until they’ve absorbed enough energy to rip their way into reality. Only when made flesh can this abomination truly feed, leaving naught but blood and tears in their wake, amassing Strength as they feast. Their hunger is endless. The Aberrations only retreat when forced into a proverbial corner, intelligent enough to know when they’ve been bested. Encountering a Hypnagoug A hypnagoug strikes when an individual or group is Resting. Adventuring parties that encounter one are forced into asymmetrical Combat as the sleepers fight a war of attrition with the hypnagoug on its home turf while anyone on watch must prevent the hypnagoug from draining the sleepers’ life force. Once a hypnagoug has gorged itself, it tears out of the Astral Plane. It has little interest in dispatching the rest of the group, smart enough to know that any bad luck could send it packing. Before fleeing, it attempts to bring one or more of the sleepers along with it to snack on later. Hypnagougs left to their own devices continue to prey on sleepers, though their methods become less surreptitious and cumulatively more … garish. Extreme Sunlight Sensitivity . While in sunlight, the hypnagoug has disadvantage on all attack rolls and saving throws, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight, and takes 7 (2d6) radiant damage at the start of its turn. Flesh Bindings . When the hypnagoug passes into the Material Plane, the tendrils from its anchor’s Energy Sap become fleshy, moist tentacles. Each creature that was attached to a tendril is grappled (escape DC 14) by the hypnagoug’s tentacles and its spirit is returned to its body. While grappled, a creature is fully cognizant, but is paralyzed and restrained until separated from the tentacle. A creature grappled this way gains a level of exhaustion at sundown each day, and the hypnagoug gains temporary hit points equal to 5 x the total number of exhaustion levels gained that day by creatures affected by its Flesh Bindings. Additionally, when the hypnagoug is hit with an attack, it reduces the damage from that attack by an amount equal to the number of creatures currently affected by its Flesh Bindings. If a creature dies while grappled, its corpse remains in the hypnagoug’s tentacles, but the hypnagoug gains no benefits from it. Each tentacle is 10 feet long and has an AC 14, 15 hit points, and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. When a tentacle is destroyed, the creature grappled by it is freed. Legendary Resistance (1/Day) . If the hypnagoug fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Pound of Flesh . If the hypnagoug has 5 or more creatures under the effects of Flesh Bindings, the hypnagoug has advantage on all ability checks and saving throws. Actions Multiattack . The hypnagoug makes one Soporific Touch attack for each creature affected by Flesh Bindings and uses Flesh Tether. Soporific Touch . Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) psychic damage. On a hit, the target must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or immediately fall unconscious until the end of their next turn, the sleeper takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the sleeper awake. Flesh Tether . A moist, quivering tendril of flesh lashes out from the hypnagoug to grab the face of a creature the hypnagoug can see within 10 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength or Dexterity saving throw (target’s choice) or become subject to the effects of Flesh Bindings. Let Me In . While on the Astral Plane, the hypnagoug pierces the veil into the Material Plane and places its anchor there, or it leaves the Material Plane and enters the Astral Plane. Reactions Shifting Nightmare . The hypnagoug halves the damage it takes from a weapon attack made against it, provided it can see the attacker. Villain Actions The hypnagoug has three villain actions. It can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy creature’s turn. It takes villain action 1 during the first round of combat, villain action 2 during the second, and villain action 3 during the third round. Villain Action 1: Lend Me Your Face . The hypnagoug weaves aberrant magic around it, changing the forms of the bodies tethered to them, decentralizing the creature and making it harder to strike. This action mimics the effect of a mirror image spell, with the number of duplicates equal to the number of creatures affected by Flesh Bindings. If the hypnagoug has three or more duplicates, it must roll a 6 or higher to change the attack's target to a duplicate. When a duplicate is struck, the illusion surrounding it dissipates, revealing the tethered creature. Attacks targeting the hypnagoug’s tentacles are unaffected by this action, as they are not duplicated by the effect. Villain Action 2: Tentacular Spectacular . The hypnagoug violently spins the bodies connected to it in a vicious circle. Each creature within 10 feet of the hypnagoug must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. For each creature affected by the hypnagoug’s Flesh Bindings, increase the DC by 1. On a failed save, a creature takes 5 (1d10) damage for each creature affected by Flesh Bindings and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. Additionally, each living creature affected by Flesh Bindings takes 5 (1d10) bludgeoning damage. The hypnagoug can then move up to its speed. Villain Action 3: Runaway Delusion . With consumption as its prime directive, the hypnagoug has no will or need to stay and fight and seeks to escape. The bodies the hypnagoug carries in its tentacles are pressed into the facsimile of legs as the creature leaps and sprints away on its amalgamated appendages. The hypnagoug moves up to 100 feet in a straight line. It can increase this movement by 20 feet for each creature affected by its Flesh Bindings. When the hypnagoug uses this action, it loses its flying speed, but gains a walking speed of 40 feet plus an additional 10 feet for every creature affected by its Flesh Bindings. This effect lasts until the following dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 22851
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 12

