# Hypnagoug Anchor

**description**: Don't let it in! —Samuel, The Babadook Nasty amorphous aberrations native to the Astral Plane, hypnagougs are a plague to sleepers the world over. For individuals, they’re nearly always fatal. For adventuring parties, or any large group of people sleeping close together, these literal nightmares unleash something much, much worse. Unfortunately for them, and everyone else, they have no natural food source in their native plane. To feed, they anchor a portion of themselves in the Material Plane, drinking deep of the dreams and nightmares of sapient beings until they’ve absorbed enough energy to rip their way into reality. Only when made flesh can this abomination truly feed, leaving naught but blood and tears in their wake, amassing strength as they feast. Their hunger is endless. The aberrations only retreat when forced into a proverbial corner, intelligent enough to know when they’ve been bested. Encountering a Hypnagoug A hypnagoug strikes when an individual or group is resting. Adventuring parties that encounter one are forced into asymmetrical combat as the sleepers fight a war of attrition with the hypnagoug on its home turf while anyone on watch must prevent the hypnagoug from draining the sleepers’ life force. Once a hypnagoug has gorged itself, it tears out of the Astral Plane. It has little interest in dispatching the rest of the group, smart enough to know that any bad luck could send it packing. Before fleeing, it attempts to bring one or more of the sleepers along with it to snack on later. Hypnagougs left to their own devices continue to prey on sleepers, though their methods become less surreptitious and cumulatively more … garish. Soporific Aura . Unconscious creatures within 30 feet of the anchor can’t be awoken by any means. A creature that attacks the anchor while within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or fall unconscious. An unconscious creature within 30 feet of the anchor has its spirit leave its body and enter an astral state between sleep and waking. A creature’s spirit can see everything within 30 feet of the anchor, including other spirits of unconscious creatures and the full form of the hypnagoug, but is blind beyond this radius. On an unconscious creature’s turn, its spirit has a movement speed of 0 and can only take one of the following actions: Forced Reentry . The spirit attempts to reenter its body. The creature rolls a d20. On a 15 or higher, the creature wakes and must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or take 7 (2d6) psychic damage and have its speed is reduced by 10 feet for 1 minute. If the creature is currently tethered by Energy Sap the DC for the Charisma saving throw against Forced Reentry is 17. Lucid Defenses . The spirit attempts to psychically bolster itself against the hypnagoug’s Energy Sap. The creature rolls a d20. On a 12 or higher, the creature adds 1d4 to its next saving throw against the hypnagoug’s Energy Sap made within 1 minute. On a 20, in addition to the previous effect, the creature gains advantage on the save. Whispers from Beyond . The spirit communicates a twenty-five-word message to a creature within the anchor’s Soporific Aura that is not unconscious. After receiving the message, the target must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or take 2 (1d4) psychic damage. Actions Energy Sap . The anchor attaches a translucent tendril of energy to an unconscious creature it can see within 30 feet of it. This tendril remains attached to the unconscious creature until it wakes up, dies, or is moved further than 30 feet from the anchor. When the anchor uses this action, each creature attached to a tendril must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or suffer 1 level of exhaustion. Additionally, each creature attached to a tendril is pulled 20 feet straight toward the anchor. Reactions What’s Underneath . When creatures suffer a total of 10 levels of exhaustion from the hypnagoug’s Energy Sap within 1 minute, the hypnagoug tears open a portal between the Astral and Material Planes large enough for its full form. The hypnagoug anchor is replaced with a hypnagoug, and the portal closes behind the hypnagoug. Astral Retreat . When the anchor takes damage that would reduce it to 0 hit points or there are no unconscious creatures within 30 feet of it, the anchor can retreat fully into the Astral Plane.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 22851
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 12

