# Hythonia

**description**: Mythic Monsters This section describes three of Theros's most infamous terrors, beings whose might and dreadful deeds set them apart as menaces of legendary proportions. While many of Theros's greatest myths arise from storied terrors—like the hydra Polukranos or the dreaded titans—the monsters in this section have a feature that sets them apart: mythic traits. Mythic traits transform battles into truly legendary confrontations, well suited to the climactic battles at the ends of adventures or whole campaigns. Mythic traits are optional; they don't need to be used during combat with these monsters. If you so choose, you may simply ignore a monster's mythic trait and mythic actions. If you wish to increase a battle's stakes, though, using a monster's mythic trait results in some mid-battle twist that changes the way the monster behaves, restores its resources, or provides it with new actions to use. As a result, the battle becomes deadlier and rages on for longer than most combat encounters. Each monster features an "As a Mythic Encounter" section that highlights its mythic trait, notes how using it changes the difficulty of the encounter and the rewards, and includes read-aloud text you can use mid-battle to signal a terrifying shift in the conflict. Hythonia the Cruel Theros's reclusive medusas often delight in collecting and expanding their galleries of petrified victims. Unlike other medusas, Hythonia isn't merely a collector; she's an artist. When Hythonia came to the island of Skathos, the inhabitants worshiped her as an avatar of the god Pharika. The cultists eagerly offered themselves up to the medusa's petrifying gaze in hopes of gaining Pharika's favor. Seeing herself surrounded by willing devotees, Hythonia formulated a cruel plan. After encouraging them to engage in wild rituals, Hythonia began turning her followers to stone, weaving their forms to create a grisly throne made of their petrified bodies. While the medusa's victims have dwindled, tales of the medusa queen and the divine secrets she hoards have not. Hythonia eagerly trades the mysteries she knows but demands a constant price: a beautiful individual to become part of her throne. Hythonia as a Mythic Encounter Hythonia serves as a potent threat against even high-level characters, but you can increase the challenge by using the Shed Skin trait. When this happens, Hythonia heals many of her wounds and slips away from danger, and then she can choose one of her mythic actions when she uses a legendary action. You might foreshadow Hythonia using her mythic trait by describing her skin cracking and turning pale as she suffers wounds. Read or paraphrase the following text when Hythonia finally uses her Shed Skin trait: The medusa’s skin cracks, turns a lifeless gray, and shatters! The monster crumbles to dust—but what clatters to the ground isn’t scale and bone, but hollow stone. The sound of rippling coils precedes the medusa rising up anew, the last of her shed skin dropping away, revealing glistening, unscarred scales. Fighting Hythonia as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two challenge rating 17 creatures in one encounter. Award a party 36,000 XP for defeating Hythonia after she uses Shed Skin. Hythonia’s Lair Hythonia makes her lair on Skathos, an island where a secret sect of worshipers dedicated to Pharika previously hoarded secrets and engaged in dark rituals. Island of Potent Magic. Although Skathos's location remains a mystery, stories tell of the island's magical plants and Hythonia's various treasures. Hythonia encourages such rumors by letting lone survivors escape her realm, letting the ravings of survivors tempt more playthings into her clutches. Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Hythonia can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects. She can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Hythonia briefly animates creatures that have been petrified by her gaze. Each statue attacks one creature within 5 feet of it, with a +11 bonus to hit and dealing 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage on a hit. If a Medium or smaller creature takes this damage, it is also grappled (escape DC 15). Hythonia causes spectral snakes to erupt from a point she can see within 150 feet of her. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 5 (2d4) piercing damage and become poisoned until the end of its next turn. While poisoned in this way, the creature has disadvantage on Intelligence checks and Intelligence saving throws, and it behaves as if under the effect of the confusion spell. Regional Effects. The region containing Hythonia's lair is warped by her presence, which creates one or more of the following effects: A large population of snakes dwells in the region. Trees within 1 mile of the lair are petrified wood. Plants that stay within 500 feet of the lair for 1 day turn to stone. Small bodies of water within 1 mile of the lair become poisonous. A creature that drinks the water must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 8 hours. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each hour.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 5432
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mythic Odysseys of Theros

