# Ibexian

**description**: A massive ram with glowing red eyes and flaming hooves scorches the air as it leaps. Demonic generals employ ibexians as fiendish shock troops when subtlety and stealth are immaterial. Often found in pairs or groups, ibexians hurl themselves at their foes and each other with equal gusto, leaving fiery calamity in their wakes. Coordinated Chaos. Periodically, one or more ibexians hurl themselves at the same foe. The fireball they create on impact is greater in intensity for each ibexian that participates. Large groups of ibexians can vaporize clusters of foes this way. Friendly Competition. Even when ibexians cooperate, they compete. Their favorite pastime is leaping at each other and butting horns, testing their comrades. If there is a foe in between them when they crash into each other, even better. Deadly When Injured. Enemies of demonic hordes must be careful when ibexians appear. Ibexian blood is as fiery as the flames covering their hooves, and ibexians become deadlier as they shed blood, spraying fire on those nearby. For this reason, foes often avoid wide-spread attacks against ibexians, for fear of accidentally spreading fire. Particularly crafty demon generals deploy groups of deliberately wounded ibexians, surprising their enemies with the fiery spray that follows. Fiery Blood. When the ibexian takes damage, each creature within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 3 (1d6) fire damage. The fire ignites flammable objects within 5 feet of the ibexian that aren't being worn or carried. Fiery Charge. If the ibexian moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) fire damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone. Pack Tactics. An ibexian has advantage on attack rolls if at least one of the ibexian's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The ibexian makes one Ram attack and one Hooves attack, or it makes two Spit Fire attacks. Ram . Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Hooves . Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Spit Fire. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (4d6 + 2) fire damage. Pyroclasm (1/Day) . The ibexian moves up to 30 feet in a straight line toward a creature and can move through the space of any Medium or smaller creature, stopping when it moves within 5 feet of the target. Each friendly ibexian within 50 feet of the ibexian can use its reaction to also move up to its speed in a straight line toward the target, stopping when it moves within 5 feet of the target. This movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. The target and each creature within 20 feet of it must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. For each ibexian in the Pyroclasm after the first, the fire damage increases by 3 (1d6), to a maximum of (28) 8d6.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

