# Ice Golem

**description**: An ice golem is a 10-foot tall, hulking figure that resembles a beautifully sculpted ice statue of an armored warrior. Said to be carved by frost dwarves from glacial ice and infused with magic and the spirit of an ice paraelemental by frost mages, the ice golem is a chilling dreadnought designed to serve its creator. Chilling Foe. The ice golem can batter opponents with powerful blows. When facing multiple enemies, the ice golem can unleash an icy breath. Those caught within the devastating cone of its breath become frozen and encased in ice. Even if its foes manage to destroy the ice golem, it would still have to avoid its death burst - an explosion of razor-sharp icy shards and numbing cold. Cold Dweller. An ice golem is almost always encountered in regions of cold climates, for anything warmer could cause it to melt. They are often used as bodyguards and sentries by frost mages and powerful clerics of Auril and Thrym, who take advantage of the golem's ability to absorb cold, enabling it to repair itself. Traits Cold Absorption. Whenever the golem is subjected to cold damage, it takes no damage and instead regains a number of hit points equal to the cold damage dealt. Death Burst. When the golem's hit points reaches 0, it explodes in a burst of jagged ice. Each creature within 10 feet of it must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4 (1d8) piercing damage and 4 (1d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Ice Walk. The golem can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement. Melt. While in an area of extreme heat, the golem loses 1d6 hit points at the start of each of its turns. Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Unusual Nature. The golem doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) cold damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the target can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. These effects last until the end of the ice golem's next turn. Frost Breath (Recharge 5-6). The golem exhales magical frost in a 15-foot cube. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 22 (5d8) cold damage and is encased in ice for 1 minute. While encased, a creature is restrained. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 17 Strength check, breaking the ice on a success. The ice can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 12; hp 25; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to cold, poison, and psychic damage). On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't encased in ice.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

