# Ice Devil Overlord

**description**: Answering to no one except pit fiends and archdevils, the highly ambitious ice devil overlords are ruthless and calculating military strategists. They have very few equals when directing and moving enmassed forces, and are willing to sacrifice anything but themselves to fulfill their objectives. Master of Frost. In combat, the ice devil overlord is set apart from its normal ilk, with its ability to generate an aura of deadly frost and unleash devastating spells of cold. In melee, few escape its dreaded spear of supernatural ice which can chill the blood and numb the senses of those who are unfortunate to get struck by it. Traits Aura of Chilling Frost. A creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the devil takes 10 (3d6) cold damage and can't use reactions until the end of the devil's next turn. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the devil's darkvision. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the devil fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The devil has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The devil makes three attacks: one with its Bite, one with its Ice Spear, and one with its Tail. It can use its Polar Ray in place of its Ice Spear attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) cold damage. Ice Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) cold damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, or for 1 minute, its speed is reduced by 10 feet; it can take either an action or a bonus action on each of its turns, not both; and it can't take reactions. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) cold damage. Polar Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 150 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (6d6) cold damage and the target can't use reactions and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the end of the devil's next turn. Spellcasting . The devil casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: darkness, detect magic, minor illusion 3/day each: fly, ice storm, wall of ice 1/day each: cone of cold, programmed illusion Teleport . The devil magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Reactions Scouring Instruction. When an ally that the devil can see makes a d20 roll, the devil can roll a d8 and the ally can add the number rolled to the d20 roll by taking 4 (1d8) psychic damage. A creature immune to psychic damage can’t be affected by Scouring Instruction. Legendary Actions The devil can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The devil regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The devil makes a Bite, Ice Spear, Tail, or Polar Ray attack. Command. The devil targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the devil, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The devil uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The devil uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

