# Iggwilv the Witch Queen

**description**: Zybilna of Prismeer Iggwilv was a brilliant, calculating figure hardly prone to emotional outbursts, but as Zybilna, she allows her emotions to run rampant and is more likely to find herself in the grip of happiness, anger, or melancholy. This is the price she pays to exert control over the Feywild and impose her will on the domain of Prismeer. Alignment. Chaotic neutral. Personality Trait. “I have become more temperamental in my old age.” Ideal. “I used to believe that emotions and kindness were signs of weakness. Now I see their strength.” Bond. “Prismeer is my home now.” Flaw. “My mother, Baba Yaga, warned me that arrogance would be my undoing, ‘as sure as stars light the night sky.’ She might be right.” Traits Boon of Immortality. Iggwilv is immune to any effect that would age her, and she can’t die from old age. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Iggwilv fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Iggwilv has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. (This trait is bestowed by her robe of the archmagi.) Special Equipment. Iggwilv wears an amulet of the planes and a robe of the archmagi . Actions Multiattack. Iggwilv makes two Bewitching Bolt attacks. Bewitching Bolt. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +16 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit : 25 (5d6 + 8) lightning damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by Iggwilv until the start of her next turn. Abyssal Rift (Recharge 5–6). Iggwilv opens a momentary Abyssal rift within 120 feet of her. The rift is a 20-foot-radius sphere. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 40 (9d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, there is a 50 percent chance that 3 hezrous then appear in unoccupied spaces in the sphere. They act as Iggwilv’s allies, take their turns immediately after hers, and can’t summon other demons. They remain until they die or until Iggwilv dismisses them as an action. Spellcasting. Iggwilv casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 24, +16 to hit with spell attacks): At will: detect magic, disguise self, invisibility, light, mage hand, message, prestidigitation, Tasha’s hideous laughter 3/day each: dispel magic, fly, polymorph 1/day each: maze, telekinesis, teleport, wish Bonus Actions Fey Step. Iggwilv teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, to an unoccupied space she can see within 30 feet of her. Reactions Negate Spell (2/Day). When Iggwilv sees a creature within 60 feet of her casting a spell, she tries to interrupt it. If the creature is casting a spell using a spell slot of 8th level or lower, its spell fails and has no effect. If it is casting a 9th-level spell, it must succeed on a DC 22 Intelligence saving throw, or the spells fails and has no effect. Legendary Actions Iggwilv can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Iggwilv regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Witchcraft. Iggwilv uses Spellcasting or Fey Step. Dark Speech (Costs 2 Actions). Iggwilv utters a phrase in a forbidden language and targets one or two creatures she can see within 60 feet of her. Each target must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or take 11 (2d10) psychic damage and be frightened of Iggwilv for 1 minute. A target can repeat the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success and thereby becoming immune to Iggwilv’s Dark Speech for 24 hours. Fey Beguilement (Costs 3 Actions). Iggwilv targets one creature she can see within 60 feet of her. The target must succeed on a DC 22 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by a fey spirit. While possessed, the target must obey Iggwilv’s commands. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, banishing the fey spirit and ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (wizard)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 11857
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Wild Beyond the Witchlight

