# Ildrix

**description**: Background Ildrix' precise heritage is obscure but as far as they know, they are the direct descendant of a powerful fiend, possibly even a demon prince. Ildrix never had a chance to meet their parents, however, as they were rescued (or, as Ildrix puts it, "kidnapped”) by an order of monks and paladins while still an infant. Fearing that Ildrix would grow up to be a tool for their fiendish parent, the Order of the Sealed Fate took Ildrix and kept them at a secluded and well-protected monastery. Here, Ildrix grew up among other orphans and under the tutelage of kind but stern monks and paladins. The young tiefling was taught history, religion, and martial arts, while the monastery's walls kept them sheltered. For a spawn of the Abyss, this disciplined and dull existence soon grew unbearable. Yearning to experience life beyond the monastery, Ildrix packed their meager belongings and left as soon as they were old enough. Soon after, Ildrix joined a band of adventurers, the tiefling's extensive knowledge and martial skill making them an effective treasure-hunter. As the years passed, Ildrix all but forgot the discipline and patience they had been taught, and grew more and more reckless. Eventually, they paid the price, as an angry black dragon's acidic spew caught them head-on. Though magical healing saved their life, Ildrix' eyes were beyond repair and the gruesome burn scars covering their body couldn't be removed. It was after this incident that Ildrix decided to become a traveling merchant instead, satisfying their need for adventure by traveling around and bartering with the many treasures they'd accumulated. Roleplaying Ildrix Ildrix is, in many ways, a paradox. Though inherently a being of chaos – an abyssal heritage is hard to overcome – Ildrix' discipline has also been honed across years of intensive practice. As a result, Ildrix may often behave erratically – talking before they think or saying things that are wholly inappropriate – but when the situation warrants it, they can conjure up impressive self-control, patience, and restraint. Ildrix is hard to define, but if one trait is constant, it is their awkwardness. Too often, Ildrix makes jokes that don't quite land ("You're a tiefling too, eh? So, Team Nine Hells or Team Abyss?”) or untimely remarks ("What is that perfume you've got on? It's musky, but with a sweet, almost acrid smell. Very unique, albeit slightly unpleasant. Oh, that's just how you smell? That's fascinating.”) Ildrix likes to be liked, so if their awkward manner puts someone off, they quickly try to appease, doing their utmost to be as courteous and friendly as possible. Though the tiefling may not always succeed, it is clear to others that they are trying hard, which is usually enough to win folk over. Though blinded by their encounter with the black dragon, Ildrix has learned to sense their surroundings just as well as if they had eyes – and, in some cases, even better. Their unnerving habit of accurately describing objects or people they shouldn't be able to see ("Such a fine blade – and those markings, quite exquisite!") only makes them appear even more otherworldly to their customers.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Tiefling)
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 27827
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Wanderer's Guide to Enchanted Emporiums

