# Ilthuliak

**description**: The black dragon Ilthuliak is a legendary monster whose presence has long featured in tales of the Stolen Lands. More powerful than even the standard great wyrm black dragon, these stats can work well when you need a particularly deadly dragon to serve as the primary villain of an entire campaign. Traits Spellcasting. Illthuliak is an 18th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). She has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): mage hand, message, prestidigitation, ray of frost, true strike 1st level (4 slots): detect magic, magic missile, shield, thunderwave 2nd level (3 slots): acid arrow, detect thoughts, invisibility, mirror image 3rd level (3 slots): animate dead, counterspell, dispel magic, fireball 4th level (3 slots): blight, dimension door 5th level (3 slots): cloudkill, scrying 6th level (1 slot): disintegrate, globe of invulnerability 7th level (1 slot): finger of death, plane shift 8th level (1 slot): dominate monster, power word stun 9th level (1 slot): time stop Amphibious. Illthuliak can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If Illthuliak fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Scent. Illthuliak can pinpoint, by scent, the location of a creature within 30 feet of her. Speak with Reptiles. Illthuliak can communicate with reptiles as if they shared a language. Swamp Stride. Illthuliak ignores difficult terrain that is comprised of swampy areas. Actions Multiattack. Illthuliak can use her Frightful Presence. She then makes three attacks: one with her bite and two with her claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10+8) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) acid damage. The acid damage persists for 1 round as the target takes another 9 (2d8) acid damage at the start of its next turn. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6+8) slashing damage. Horns. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10+8) bludgeoning damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8+8) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Illthuliak’s choice that is within 120 feet of her and aware of her must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune Illthuliak’s Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Corrupt Water (1/Day) . Illthuliak can stagnate 10 cubic feet of still water within 120 feet of her, making it foul and unable to support water-breathing life. The ability spoils liquids containing water. The owner of liquid-based magic items (such as potions) and items in its possession must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving or have its liquid ruined. Breath Weapon (Recharge 5–6). Illthuliak uses one of the following breath weapons: Corrosive Acid Breath. Illthuliak exhales acid in a 90-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 77 (22d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more also has its acid resistance reduced by one level of protection for 1 minute—immune becomes resistance, resistance becomes normal, and normal becomes vulnerable. Acid Pool. Illthuliak can use her breath weapon to create an acid pool. This acid pool has a radius of 50 feet. When an acid pool is created, anyone inside its area takes 70 (20d6) acid damage on a failed DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, or half as much on a success. The pool remains for 5 rounds and deals half the amount of damage from the previous round (10d6, 5d6, 2d6, 1d6) and then becomes inert. A creature that ends its turn in the affected area must repeat the saving throw and takes the appropriate damage. If formed on water, the pool floats and deals damage to anything on the surface. Reactions Tail Slam. When a creature enters or moves within Illthuliak’s reach, she can make an opportunity attack with her tail against the triggering creature. Legendary Actions Illthuliak can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. She regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Detect. Illthuliak makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Gore. Illthuliak makes a horn attack. Tail Attack. Illthuliak makes a tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). Illthuliak beats her wings. Each creature within 15 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6+8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. She can then fly up to half her flying speed. Lair Actions and Regional Effects Illthuliak has the standard lair actions and regional effects of an ancient black dragon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

