# Imix

**description**: Imix, the Eternal Flame and the All-Consuming Fire, is the Prince of Evil Fire. His natural form resembles a 30-foot-tall, 10-foot-wide pillar of fire with smoldering black pits for eyes. Imix rarely speaks, but he crackles and roars with terrible laughter as anything combustible within his grasp bursts into flame and feeds his hate. Mortal beings are mere objects of contempt to Imix, and he burns alive any he can catch for nothing more than the wicked glee of watching them writhe and die in his flames. Like his native element, Imix is fickle, temperamental, and highly destructive. Anything combustible stokes his hunger, but he takes special delight in feeding on the handiwork and possessions of intelligent beings, such as crops, buildings, or goods. Imix doesn’t even spare his own followers or those who placate him with gifts and sacrifices—he is capricious and unpredictable, and often turns on those who think they have earned his favor. Imix’s Lair Imix’s home is a fiery inverted pyramid within a volcano on the Elemental Plane of Fire. This fortress-palace is known as the Temple of Ultimate Consumption. Imix is quick to answer calls from the Material Plane, since he hungers eternally for new forests, plains, and kingdoms to burn. Lair Actions Imix is master of heat and flames in his vicinity. He can take lair actions on the Elemental Plane of Fire, or in any elemental fire node (such as the Weeping Colossus in chapter 5). On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Imix uses his lair action to cause one of the following effects: Any fires in the lair flare up drastically, quadrupling in size (for example, a fire blazing in a 5-foot by 5-foot area expands to a 10-foot by 10-foot area). Pools or streams of lava or other molten material are also affected. Creatures caught in the area of an expanded fire are subject to the normal damage for entering or being in the fire. Creatures caught by a sudden flood of lava must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone, in addition to the normal damage for contact with molten rock. A thick cloud of black smoke and burning embers fills a 40-foot-radius sphere within 120 feet of Imix, lasting until initiative count 20 of the next round. Creatures and objects within or beyond the smoke are heavily obscured. A creature that enters the cloud of embers for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. A wave of searing heat fills the lair in a 300-foot radius around Imix for an instant. Each creature other than Imix in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 1d8 fire damage. Creatures that take fire damage from this effect gain one level of exhaustion. In addition, there is a fifty percent chance that any container of fluid held or carried by an affected creature (for example, a magic potion) is destroyed. Regional Effects The region containing an elemental node in which Imix is present becomes vulnerable to the influence of fire. This creates the following effects: A dry, baking heat wave strikes the region within 10 miles of Imix’s location. At first, effects are minor— grass turns brown, animals become listless, work and travel become very tiring. The longer Imix remains, the worse the heat becomes; after 5 days, crops die and ponds dry up; after 10 days, unprotected livestock dies, and wells and small rivers dry up; after 20 days, large lakes and rivers are reduced in depth by 20 feet and shrink accordingly. Wildfires erupt within a 5-mile radius of Imix’s lair. Every hour, there is a ten percent chance that characters in this area are caught in the path of a wildfire moving 50 feet per round. Each character must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) fire damage. A wildfire continues to threaten the characters for 1d10 rounds or until they get out of its path. Wooden structures caught in the wildfire are destroyed. Lava fountains erupt from the ground within 1 mile of Imix’s lair. Every hour, there is a ten percent chance that characters in this area are close enough to an erupting lava fountain to be in danger. A lava fountain creates a vent 20 feet in diameter, and hurls globs of lava up to 200 feet away. Each character within this area must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage plus 17 (5d6) fire damage. A fountain lasts for 2d10 rounds before subsiding. Wildfires or volcanic fissures within 1 mile of Imix’s lair form intermittent portals to the Elemental Plane of Fire, allowing elemental creatures into the mortal world to dwell near those points. If Imix is destroyed or banished back to his home plane, the regional effects fade over the next 1d10 days. Princes of Elemental Evil For the most part, the elements that make up the world are indifferent to good or evil as mortals understand the concepts. Creatures such as fire elementals can be dangerous and destructive, but they have no particular aim other than to exist. However, some of the primordial powers of the elemental plane are tainted with true evil. These are the princes of Elemental Evil, old and jealous elemental beings that despise the world of living things. Each of the princes is a unique elemental lord of terrible power, and each commands the loyalty of many lesser elementals that have likewise been corrupted by their evil—as well as mortal worshipers who likewise seek to scour the world with the wrath of the elements. Each prince of Elemental Evil is a unique being unlike any other elemental, or any of the other princes. Some embody the combination of elements—for example, Bwimb, the Lord of Ooze, or Cryonax, the Prince of Evil Cold. However, the four princes most strongly associated with the cult of Elemental Evil are malicious embodiments of the four base elements. They are: Imix, Prince of Evil Fire (the All-Consuming Fire, the Eternal Flame) Ogrémoch, Prince of Evil Earth (Tyrant of Black Earth, the Mountain of Doom) Olhydra, Princess of Evil Water (the Crushing Wave, Well of Endless Anguish) Yan-C-Bin, Prince of Evil Air (the Shadow of the Four Winds, the Howling Hatred) Forces of Destruction. The princes aren’t concerned with spreading wickedness among mortals or making any kind of order or philosophy dominant in the world. Their evil is blind, destructive, and hungry. They hate the way the world is made and the natural laws that constrain their favored elements. They resent the gods who shaped the world, and the mortals for whom the world was shaped, especially mortals who seek to impose their will on the elements. The princes unleash natural catastrophes at every opportunity, and gladly crush or devour mortals to assert their mastery over the world. Uncooperative. While the princes of Elemental Evil share a love of destruction and hatred of mortals, they don’t cooperate with each other. Each is concerned only with advancing his or her own favored element. At best they are indifferent to each other, but each prince hates the prince representing the element opposite to its own (fire and water, or air and earth), and often goes to great lengths to block its enemy’s efforts or destroy its enemy’s followers. The Elder Elemental Eye. While the princes of Elemental Evil act independently of each other, there is a mysterious force that seems to link them together: the Elder Elemental Eye. Some sages believe that the Eye is a dark, primordial god that corrupted the elements in the beginning of the world, giving rise to each of the princes. Others hold that the Elder Elemental Eye is a binding force—a common fate, or perhaps a curse— that ties the princes together. Whenever one aspect of Elemental Evil takes root in the world, the other three soon follow, and the four cults are often found together despite their mutual antipathy. Elemental Nodes. The princes of Elemental Evil seek to spread their power by sowing the seeds of elemental nodes throughout the world. Elemental nodes are places in the Material Plane that are suffused with energy from the Elemental Planes. For example, a subterranean magma chamber or a swamp with flaming gas seeps might be an elemental node of fire. Elemental nodes are like beachheads for the elemental princes, places from which they can reshape part of the world to their own tastes and wreak destruction on whatever is nearby. When an elemental prince succeeds in establishing a node, it channels its power—and its elemental minions— to that spot, spreading Elemental Evil like a cancer in the firmament of the world. Worshiped by Cults. The princes of Elemental Evil are indifferent to mortal followers. They aren’t gods and don’t crave worship, but evil mortals find that Elemental Evil is a ready source of magical power and lends itself to destructive uses. Cultists often gather near elemental nodes and attempt perilous rituals to tap into the power of Elemental Evil or attract the attention of one of the princes. These fell beings don’t hear prayers or grant spells, but they can serve as sources of power to those who learn to draw on their might. More often than not, the princes of Elemental Evil wind up destroying the mortals who called on them. Until they do, clever (or crazed) cultists can do a great deal of harm with the elemental power they borrow. Traits Empowered Attacks. Imix’s slam attacks are treated as magical for the purpose of bypassing resistance and immunity to nonmagical weapons. Fire Aura. At the start of each of Imix’s turns, each creature within 10 feet of him takes 17 (5d6) fire damage, and flammable objects in the aura that aren’t being worn or carried ignite. A creature also takes 17 (5d6) fire damage if it touches Imix or hits him with a melee attack while within 10 feet of him, and a creature takes that damage the first time on a turn that Imix moves into its space. Nonmagical weapons that hit Imix are destroyed by fire immediately after dealing damage to him. Fire Form. Imix can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop there. He can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch without squeezing if fire could pass through that space. Illumination. Imix sheds bright light in a 60-foot radius and dim light for an additional 60 feet. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Imix fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Innate Spellcasting. Imix’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: fireball, wall of fire 3/day each: fire storm, haste, teleport Magic Resistance. Imix has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. Imix makes two slam attacks or two flame blast attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (5d6) fire damage. Flame Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 250 ft., one target. Hit: 35 (10d6) fire damage. Summon Elementals (1/Day). Imix summons up to three fire elementals and loses 30 hit points for each elemental he summons. Summoned elementals have maximum hit points, appear within 100 feet of Imix, and disappear if Imix is reduced to 0 hit points. Legendary Actions Imix can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Imix regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Heat Wave. Imix creates a blast of heat within 300 feet of himself. Each creature in the area in physical contact with metal objects (for example, carrying metal weapons or wearing metal armor) takes 9 (2d8) fire damage. Each creature in the area that isn’t resistant or immune to fire damage must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). Imix magically teleports up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Anything Imix is wearing or carrying isn’t teleported with him. Combustion (Costs 3 Actions). Imix causes one creature he can see within 30 feet of him to burst into flames. The target must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 70 (20d6) fire damage and catches fire. A target on fire takes 10 (3d6) fire damage when it starts its turn, and remains on fire until it or another creature takes an action to douse the flames. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and doesn’t catch fire.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

