# Imy-ut Ushabti

**description**: These tomb guardians walk their rounds silently, an ornate sword in its hand. Glittering scarabs scurry from under their deformed and yellowed linen wrappings. Willing Sacrifices. The undying servants of the god‑kings and queens of ancient times, the imy-ut ushabti guard the tombs of their masters and shepherd them toward their eventual awakening. Generals, trusted advisors, and close allies of their god-king willingly accompanied their dying lords into the afterlife through a horrifying transformation. Still alive, they are tightly bound in linens and sealed within a sarcophagus among a swarm of flesh‑eating scarabs that, over a period of days to weeks, fully consumed their bodies. The servant’s devotion to their task and the anguish of their passing transforms the scarab colony and animates the funerary wrappings to carry on the imy-ut’s duty. Scarab Mummies. From a distance, the imy-ut ushabti are indistinguishable from the mummified form of their master, betrayed only by the reserved ornamentation of their lacquered armor and the ripples of movement beneath their wrappings from the mass of scarabs beneath it. Warding Triads. Traditionally, imy‑ut ushabti appear only in triads—the warden, charged with ensuring the death sleep of their god‑queen is uninterrupted; the steward, tasked with escorting their master back from the land of the dead; and the herald, proclaiming their lord’s return to the world of the living. Traits Regeneration: The imy-ut ushabti regains 5 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Rent Wrappings: A creature that touches or deals slashing or piercing damage to an imy-ut ushabti while within 5 feet of the creature shreds its delicate linen wrappings, releasing a flurry of skittering scarabs. The attacking creature must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw to avoid them. On a failure, these beetles flow onto the attacker and deal 3 (1d6) piercing damage to it at the start of each of its turns. A creature can remove beetles from itself or from another affected creature within reach by using an action and making a successful DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. The beetles are also destroyed if the affected creature takes damage from an area effect. Actions Ceremonial Greatsword: Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., One creature. Hit : 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing damage. On hit, the target must make a successful DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 5, 2d4, poison damage at the start of each of its turns. The target repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Vomit Swarm (1/Day): The imy-ut ushabti parts its wrappings voluntarily and releases a swarm of scarab beetles that follow its mental commands. The statistics of this swarm are identical to a swarm of insects, but with the following attack instead of a swarm of insects’ standard bite attack: Bites (More than Half HP): Melee Weapon Attack : +3 to hit, reach 0 ft., One creature. Hit : 10 (4d4) Piercing damage. The target must make a successful DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 5, 2d4, poison damage at the start of each of its turns. A poisoned creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bites (Half or Less HP): Melee Weapon Attack : +3 to hit, reach 0 ft., One creature. Hit : 5 (2d4) Piercing damage. The target must make a successful DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 5, 2d4, poison damage at the start of each of its turns. A poisoned creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

