# Infernal Colossus

**description**: The magma golem is a formidable, awe-inspiring construct crafted to resemble an imposing 12-foot-tall armored knight. Its outer shell resembles a suit of armor composed of molten magma and volcanic rock, adorned with jagged edges and fiery runes. Flames emanate from the surface of its body and lava streams between its ridges like an orange river. Implacable Sentinel. As typical with golems, the magma golem is driven by a single-minded purpose to follow the commands of its owner, even if the latter no longer exists. The golem's movements are deliberate and powerful, with each step accompanied by the resonating rumble of molten rock. Walking Incinerators. The magma golem constantly radiates an aura of punishing fire, scorching the air around it and making its proximity unbearable for most creatures. Additionally, it can generate surges of even greater heat, unleashing waves of searing energy that can incinerate anything unfortunate enough to be caught within its reach. When damaged, the magma golem can repair and reconstruct itself by subjecting its body with fire. It usually does this by dipping itself into a pool of lava. Hellish Colossi. Powerful artificers and archmages working together can build even mightier magma golems. Twice as tall and unbelievably powerful, these colossi cause the ground to shake when they walk. There are even rumors of infernal versions that stand guard in the palaces of archdevils. Traits Infernal Fire Aura. At the start of each of the colossus’s turns, each creature within 10 feet of it takes 11 (2d10) fire damage, and flammable objects in the aura that aren’t being worn or carried ignite. A creature that touches the colossus or hits it with a melee attack while within 10 feet of it takes 11 (2d10) fire damage. In addition, a creature that takes fire damage must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. Fire Absorption. Whenever the colossus is subjected to fire damage, it takes no damage and instead regains a number of hit points equal to the fire damage dealt. Ground-Shaker. When the colossus moves within 10 feet of a creature that is standing on the ground, that creature must succeed on a DC 23 Strength or DC 23 Dexterity saving throw (creature's choice) or be knocked prone. A creature only needs to make this saving throw once per turn. Immutable Form. The colossus is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The colossus has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The colossus's weapon attacks are magical. Siege Monster. The colossus deals double damage to objects and structures. Unusual Nature. The colossus doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Water Susceptibility. For every 5 feet the colossus moves in water, or for every gallon of water splashed on it, it takes 1 cold damage. Actions Multiattack. The colossus makes two Slam attacks. Slam . Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 11 (2d10) fire damage the target has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened until the end of the colossus's next turn. Infernal Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: The colossus chooses a point it can see within 60 feet of it. The colossus's eyes projects an intense beam of infernal fire to that point. Each creature within 5 feet of that point must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 44 (8d10) fire damage and has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened until the end of the colossus's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effect. Infernal Surge (Recharge 6). The colossus generates waves of intense heat. Each creature within 20 feet of it must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 54 (12d8) fire damage, gains two levels of exhaustion, and has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened until the end of the colossus's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

