# Infernal Cambion of Mammon

**description**: Cambion A cambion is the offspring of a fiend (usually a succubus or incubus) and a humanoid (usually a human). Cambions inherit aspects of both parents, but their horns, leathery wings, and sinewy tails are hallmarks of their otherworldly parentage. Born to Be Bad. Cambions grow into ruthless adults whose wickedness and perversion horrifies even the most devoted mortal parent. Even as a youth, a cambion identifies its rightful place as an overlord of mortals. It might orchestrate uprisings in towns and cities, gathering gangs of humanoids and lesser devils to serve it. Pawns of the Mighty. A cambion forced to serve its fiendish parent does so out of admiration and dread, but also with the expectation that it will one day rise to a place of prominence. Cambions raised in the Nine Hells serve as soldiers, envoys, and personal attendants to greater devils. In the Abyss, a cambion carries only as much authority as it can muster through sheer strength⁠ and force of will. Infernal Cambions Some archdevils consort with mortals to produce cambion offspring. While most have the typical abilities for a cambion⁠, some gain abilities⁠ reminiscent of their archdevil parent. Signature Spells Cambions have the Innate Spellcasting trait. When customizing an infernal cambion, you can replace spells in that trait with ones of the same level from the list of signature spells in the list below. The cambion can use these spells once per day each. Signature Spells: Mending (cantrip), Tenser’s floating disk (1st level), arcane lock (2nd level), glyph of warding (3rd level) Special⁠ Traits A cambion linked to a specific devil typically gains any special⁠ traits conferred to that devil’s cultists. Members of the cult of Mammon gain the Grasping Hands trait. Cult leaders can also gain the Promise of Wealth trait. Traits Fiendish Blessing. The AC of the cambion includes its Charisma bonus. Grasping Hands (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As a bonus action, this cambion makes a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check contested by the Wisdom (Insight) check of a creature it can see within 15 feet of it. If the cambion succeeds, one handheld item of its choice that it can see on the target magically teleports to its open hand. The item can’t be one that the target is holding, and it must weigh no more than 10 pounds. Innate Spellcasting. The cambion’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). The cambion can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 3/day each: alter self, command, detect magic 1/day: plane shift (self only) Promise of Wealth (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As a bonus action, the cambion chooses one creature it can see. Up to five allies of its choice become convinced that the target carries great wealth. Until the end of this cambion’s next turn, those allies gain advantage on all attack rolls against the target. Actions Multiattack. The cambion makes two melee attacks or uses its Fire Ray twice. Spear (One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Ranged). Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Fire Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) fire damage. Fiendish Charm. One humanoid the cambion can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 day. The charmed target obeys the cambion’s spoken commands. If the target suffers any harm from the cambion⁠ or another creature or receives a suicidal command⁠ from the cambion⁠, the target can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful, or if the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the cambion’s Fiendish Charm for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any Evil Alignment
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

