# Infernal Chancellor Lazivos

**description**: Traits Security for Speed ( 3 /Day). When Lazivos fails a saving throw, he can succeed instead. When he does, his speed is halved and he can’t take bonus actions or reactions until the end of his next turn. Supernatural Resistance. Lazivos has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. True Name. If a creature Lazivos can hear within 60 feet of him speaks his true name aloud, Lazivos loses his damage resistances, damage immunities, and Devilish Charm reaction for 24 hours. Lazivos’s true name is Minto Abi. Actions Multiattack. Lazivos makes three attacks using Infernal Rapier, Chancellor’s Decree, or both. Infernal Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage, and the target is marked with an infernal sigil until the end of their next turn. While marked, a creature can’t hide or benefit from being invisible, and attack rolls against them have advantage. Chancellor’s Decree. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) psychic damage, and the target must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target is charmed by Lazivos until the end of his next turn or until Lazivos or one of his allies harms the target. Diabolic Deposition (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Lazivos commands the attention of each enemy within 30 feet of him who can hear him. Each target must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature must choose to either take 27 (6d8) fire damage plus 27 (6d8) psychic damage or be dazed for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). On a successful save, a creature must either choose to take half as much damage or be dazed until the end of their next turn. Succeed or fail, if a creature is already dazed, they must choose the damage Bonus Actions As I Say. Lazivos commands a creature charmed by him to use their reaction, if available, to make a weapon attack against a target of his choice. Reactions Devilish Charm. When Lazivos is targeted by an attack, power, spell, or other supernatural effect by a creature he can see within 60 feet of him, the creature must make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed by Lazivos until the start of the creature’s next turn, and Lazivos chooses a new target he can see for the triggering effect. The new target must be within the triggering effect’s range. Villain Actions Lazivos has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Welcome, Friends. Lazivos invokes an infernal word of power. Up to three enemies within 60 feet of him who can hear him must make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a target is charmed by Lazivos for 1 hour (save ends at end of turn) or until Lazivos or one of his allies harms the target. On a successful save, a target takes 16 (3d10) psychic damage. Action 2 : Heed My Commands! Lazivos and each ally within 60 feet of him moves up to their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Each creature charmed by Lazivos moves up to half their speed in a direction he chooses (no action required). Action 3 : Deceptive Stratagem. Lazivos switches places with a willing creature of his choice within 120 feet of him. Immediately afterward, up to five creatures of Lazivos’s choice within 120 feet of him can make a melee attack (no action required).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

