# Infernal Adult Gold Dragon

**description**: Undoubtedly the most dreaded among fiendish dragons, the ancient infernal gold dragon stands unrivaled in its power and cunning, comparable to the most formidable archdevils. Beneath its awe-inspiring and refined facade lies a malevolent, unyielding, and treacherous tyrant. Utilizing a vast network of fiendish spies and ruthless enforcers, the infernal gold dragon eliminates rivals and, if necessary, even turns on its own allies to maintain its iron grip on power. Its web of deceit and manipulation spreads like a sinister shadow, ensuring no threat or opposition remains unaddressed. An Infernal Gold Dragon's Lair An infernal gold dragon makes its lair in far-flung places that are not accessible to most beings, where they can brood and slumber for as long as they please without worry of intrusion. It prefers places that are uninhabitable, such as deep within the bowels of a raging volcano, or in ancient ruins, lava lakes, and twisting caverns of Hell. The challenge rating of a legendary infernal gold dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects: The dragon casts darkness , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability, at up to 3 points it can see within its lair. The effects lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. Up to three creatures the dragon can see within its lair must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until initiative count 20 on the next round. One creature the dragon can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be banished to a nightmare plane, a different plane of existence the dragon has imagined into being. To escape, the creature must use its action to make a Charisma check contested by the dragon’s. If the creature wins, it escapes the nightmare plane. Otherwise, the effect ends on initiative count 20 on the next round. When the effect ends, the creature gains one level of exhaustion and reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that one is occupied. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary infernal gold dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Whenever a creature sleeps or enters a state of trance or reverie within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair, the dragon can establish telepathic contact with that creature and instill its dreams with nightmares. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. Dark, reddish mist manifests within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair. It assumes fiendish forms when good creatures are near the dragon or other devils in the mist, giving the good creatures disadvantage to saving throws made against being frightened. 20-foot diameter spheres of magical darkness randomly appear within 6 miles of the dragon's lair. They last for 1 hour before disappearing. There is a 50% chance that there are 1d6 lesser devils within the sphere. If the dragon dies, all the regional effects fade immediately. Fiendish Dragon A fiendish dragon usually comes from a dragon egg that, performed during a dark ritual, was tainted with the essence of a demon lord or archdevil. In very rare instances, the offspring of a dragon and an archdevil or demon lord, who may or may not have been disguised as another dragon, become fiendish dragons. Traits Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the dragon's darkvision. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The dragon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d8 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Breath Weapons (Recharge 5–6) . The dragon uses one of the following breath weapons. Infernal Fire Breath. The dragon exhales infernal fire in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 66 (12d10) fire damage and is frightened until the end of the dragon's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. Infernal Weakening Breath. The dragon exhales infernal gas in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 22 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 33 (6d10) fire damage and has disadvantage on Strength-based attack rolls, Strength checks, and Strength saving throws for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Change Shape. The dragon magically transforms into any Humanoid or Beast, while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the dragon is reduced to 0 hit points or if it uses a bonus action to end it. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The dragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take 16 (2d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil, Dragon)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

