# Infernal Cambion of Zariel

**description**: Cambion A cambion is the offspring of a fiend (usually a succubus or incubus) and a humanoid (usually a human). Cambions inherit aspects of both parents, but their horns, leathery wings, and sinewy tails are hallmarks of their otherworldly parentage. Born to Be Bad. Cambions grow into ruthless adults whose wickedness and perversion horrifies even the most devoted mortal parent. Even as a youth, a cambion⁠ identifies its rightful place as an overlord of mortals. It might orchestrate uprisings in towns and cities, gathering gangs of humanoids and lesser devils to serve it. Pawns of the Mighty. A cambion⁠ forced to serve its fiendish parent does so out of admiration and dread, but also with the expectation that it will one day rise to a place of prominence. Cambions raised in the Nine Hells serve as soldiers, envoys, and personal attendants to greater devils. In the Abyss, a cambion⁠ carries only as much authority as it can muster through sheer strength⁠ and force of will. Infernal Cambions of Zariel Some archdevils consort with mortals to produce cambion⁠ offspring. While most have the typical abilities⁠ for a cambion⁠, some gain abilities⁠ reminiscent of their archdevil parent. Signature Spells⁠ Cambions have the Innate Spellcasting trait. When customizing an infernal cambion⁠, you can replace spells in that trait with ones of the same level from the list of signature spells⁠ in the list below. The cambion⁠ can use these spells⁠ once per day each. Signature Spells: True strike (cantrip), heroism (1st level), spiritual weapon (2nd level), crusader’s mantle (3rd level) Special⁠ Traits A cambion⁠ linked to a specific devil typically gains any special⁠ traits conferred to that devil’s cultists⁠. Members of the Cult of Zariel can gain the Ferocious Surge trait. Cult leaders can also gain the Infernal Tactics⁠ trait. Some devils grant a unique ability to their spawn that replaces the cambion’s Fiendish Charm trait; Zariel and Geryon have a penchant for spawning cambions to serve as war leaders among their followers. The two of them grant the Fury of the Nine ability in place of Fiendish Charm. Traits Ferocious Surge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the cambion⁠ hits with an attack⁠ that isn’t a critical hit, it can turn the hit into a critical hit. Fiendish Blessing. The AC of the cambion includes its Charisma bonus. Fury of the Nine. As a bonus action⁠, the cambion chooses another creature that can see or hear it within 120 feet. That creature gains advantage on all attack rolls and saving throws for the next minute or until the cambion⁠ uses this ability again. Infernal Tactics⁠. The cambion has a keen eye for seizing a tactical advantage. Immediately after rolling initiative, it can choose itself and up to three allies it can see if it isn’t incapacitated. It can swap the initiative results of the chosen creatures among them. Innate Spellcasting: The cambion’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). The cambion can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 3/day each: alter self, command, detect magic 1/day: plane shift (self only) Actions Multiattack. The cambion makes two melee attacks or uses its Fire Ray twice. Spear (Melee; One-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Melee; Two-Handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Spear (Ranged). Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Fire Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) fire damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any Evil Alignment
- Expansion: 4
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

