# Infernal Manticore Deceiver

**description**: The infernal manticore is a more perverse and diabolical version of the manticore. Its eyes gleam a sinister orange and its whole body emanates an aura of pure maleficence. Unlike its normal counterpart, the infernal manticore possesses a more cunning intellect, allowing it to plan and utilize elaborate traps and strategies. Infernal Creatures Infernal creatures are diabolical fiends bearing the taint of devil's blood. Most are born naturally with a devil lineage, but a few, whether willingly or by coersion, entered into a contract with an arch devil. Infernals usually have dark or crimson skins, and some sport short horns on their foreheads. A rare few exude an aura of fire, while others can breath hellfire. Devious Tricksters. Deceptive and highly manipulative, these fiendish entities possess a propensity for trickery and subterfuge, often using disguises or the persona of their normally good-aligned kin. Infernals navigate the realms with a calculated and elusive presence, adept at ensnaring the unsuspecting in their web of deceit. Collecting souls as their ultimate goal, these creatures embody the very essence of malevolence and treachery. Traits Magic Resistance. The infernal manticore has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Tail Spike Regrowth. The infernal manticore has twenty-four tail spikes. Used spikes regrow when the manticore finishes a long rest. Actions Multiattack. The infernal manticore makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Alternatively, it can make three Tail Spike attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage. Tail Spike. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 100/200 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) psychic damage, and the target has disadvantage on its next attack roll, ability check, or saving throw made within the next minute. Sow Discord (Recharge 5–6). The infernal manticore chooses up to three creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature must use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make a melee weapon attack against one visible creature of the infernal manticore's choice. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Spellcasting. The infernal manticore casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: dancing lights, minor illusion, prestidigitation 2/day each: charm person, major image, suggestion 1/day each: blindness/deafness, compulsion, mislead, stinking cloud Bonus Actions Nimble Escape. The infernal manticore takes the Disengage or Hide action. Reactions Shifting Veil (3/Day). When the infernal manticore is attacked and the infernal manticore can see the attacker, its body becomes magically blurred and wavering to all who can see it. Until the start of the infernal manticore's next turn or until the infernal manticore dies or is incapacitated, any creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against it. An attacker is immune to this effect if it doesn't rely on sight, as with blindsight, or can see through illusions, as with truesight.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

