# Infernal Adult Bronze Dragon

**description**: An infernal bronze dragon sees itself as a conqueror and ruler of its coastal territory. It lives only to fight, subjugate, and hoard treasure. It attacks ships that enter its domain, plundering its cargo for treasure and enslaving its crew. In Hell, the infernal bronze dragon serves its archdevil master as a warlord and general, leading fiendish troops into battle. An Infernal Bronze Dragon's Lair An infernal bronze dragon makes its lair in caverns along coasts and reefs in the natural world or along the River Styx in Hell. The challenge rating of a legendary infernal bronze dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects: The dragon casts darkness , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability, at up to 3 points it can see within its lair. The effects lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. An infernal thunderclap originates at a point the dragon can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature within a 20-foot radius centered on that point must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 5 (1d10) fire damage and 5 (1d10) thunder damage and be deafened and stunned until the end of its next turn. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary infernal bronze dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Once every 10 minutes while within 6 miles of the lair, infernal lightning strikes a point on the ground. Each creature within a 5-foot radius centered on that point must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 3 (1d6) fire damage and 3 (1d6) lightning damage. Underwater plants within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair become corrupted and grow venomous barbs. A creature that moves within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 24 hours. Within its lair, the dragon can set terrifying illusory sounds, such as howls and screams, so that they can be heard in various parts of the lair. When a creature hears these sounds, it must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 hour. While frightened, the creature must use its action each turn to exit the lair in the quickest route possible and will not willingly enter or stay within the lair. A creature that succeeds in the saving throw is immune to this effect for 24 hours. If the dragon dies, the lightning storms fade in 1d10 days, but the other effects fade immediately. Fiendish Dragon A fiendish dragon usually comes from a dragon egg that, performed during a dark ritual, was tainted with the essence of a demon lord or archdevil. In very rare instances, the offspring of a dragon and an archdevil or demon lord, who may or may not have been disguised as another dragon, become fiendish dragons. Traits Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the dragon's darkvision. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The dragon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Breath Weapons (Recharge 5–6). The dragon uses one of the following breath weapons. Infernal Lightning Breath. The dragon exhales infernal lightning in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 33 (6d10) fire damage and 33 (6d10) lightning damage and is frightened until the end of the dragon's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. Infernal Repulsion Breath. The dragon exhales infernal repulsion energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 33 (6d10) fire damage and is pushed 40 feet away from the dragon. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed. Change Shape. The dragon magically transforms into any Humanoid or Beast, while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the dragon is reduced to 0 hit points or if it uses a bonus action to end it. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The dragon makes a Tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil, Dragon)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

