# Injustice Archon

**description**: Justice archons are prone to anger, self-righteousness, and obsession. It is no surprise that of all archons, they are the ones who often become fallen archons. Known as injustice archons, these cruel and merciless devils serve their diabolical masters as assassins and inquisitors. They are relentless hunters, never stopping until they or their quarries are dead. Adventurers who have continuously thwarted the interests of a powerful devil may soon find themselves the targets of injustice archons. Fallen Archons An archon always answers to a higher being: a superior archon, angel, and always to a Mount Celestial deity. It is expected to abide by and enforce the laws of its god. There are rare instances that an archon, just like its angel brethren, for some reason or another, would deviate from the stringent rules set for it. Depending on the gravity of its actions, an archon may be stripped of its station, banished from Mount Celestia, or even imprisoned. Such an archon has become a fallen archon. Fallen from Grace. Most fallen archons who are banished willingly live out their lives as mortals in the Material Plane, accepting it as a form of penitence. However, a few, having been twisted by their perverse pride, greed, and selfishness, become subversive and hide out in the Lower Planes. As they simmer in anger and hate, they become prone to temptation. Diabolical Transformation. Agents representing archdevils from the Nine Hells offer fallen archons a place where they can be respected, given power, and a chance to punish those that have wronged them. Those that accept sign a diabolical contract that binds their souls to Asmodeus and the Nine Hells. They transform and become corrupted shadows of their former selves and ultimately become devils. They lose some of their archon abilities but gain new, fiendish ones. Agents of the Nine Hells. Most fallen archons become soldiers of archdevils that recruited them. Others become assassins, agents, and spies. No matter their role, fallen archons are no longer bound by their conscience or morality and have become cruel, merciless, and unforgiving. Immortal Nature. A fallen archon doesn’t require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the fallen archon’s darkvision. Magic Resistance. The fallen archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The fallen archon makes two Greatsword attacks, or makes one Greatsword attack and casts one spell that takes 1 action to cast. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The fallen archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: bane, darkness, detect evil and good, invisibility (self only) 1/day: bestow curse Teleport. The fallen archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Reactions Castigating Strike. When a creature within 5 feet of the fallen archon deals damage to an ally, the fallen archon makes a melee weapon attack against that creature. Bonus Actions Injustice Strike (3/Day). The fallen archon deals extra damage when it hits a creature with a melee attack. The extra damage depends on the target's alignment: Any Good: 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. Chaotic Neutral or Neutral: 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Chaotic Evil or Lawful Neutral: 4 (1d8) necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

