# Insectile (template)

**description**: An insectile creature is a twisted victim of the azaka, infused with magical aetherite radiation. Following a slow, agonizing transformation, such a creature hardly resembles its former self. A chitinous exoskeleton covers most of its body, venomous mandibles protrude from its mouth, and vestigial limbs hideously sprout forth. Psychically Enslaved. The same process that transforms an insectile creature’s body also alters its mind. A newly created insectile creature falls under the control of the azaka that created it, becoming its slave. In the presence of azaka, insectile creatures make formidable opponents. Without their masters, they become aimless vermin; dangerous but lacking in intellect or motivation. They don’t act except to defend themselves. Stalkers of the Icy Wastes. Insectile creatures are common on cold, remote planets, where their azaka creators thrive. Near azaka hives, insectile creatures are found in abundance. They act as guards, laborers, and even soldiers for their hive. The azaka are extremely possessive of their slaves, but they are willing to sacrifice these creatures to protect themselves. Rarely, entire hosts of insectile creatures spew forth from the azaka’s subterranean tunnels and attack encroaching settlements, driving them back and capturing more victims for enslavement. Biological Enigmas. Aside from those found in the wild, insectile creatures are rarely encountered except as captured specimens. However, the process that creates insectile creatures works on all manner of living organisms. Horrifying stories of insectile giants and other nightmarish abominations are the topic of popular horror stories and tall tales told in cantinas around the planets they infest. Independent researchers have attempted to reverse-engineer the process by which insectile creatures are created, to little success. Others have gone so far as to attempt capture of individual azaka for study. So far, these experiments have all ended in disastrous failure. Dependent on Aetherite. Insectile creatures require magical minerals like aetherite (see Appendix 2: Aetherite for details) to survive and must consume at least 10 gp worth per week or begin to starve. Insectile Creature Template A beast, humanoid, giant, or monstrosity can become an insectile creature. When a creature becomes an insectile creature, it retains all its statistics except as noted below. Type. The insectile creature's type is aberration. It gains the aether tag. Alignment. The insectile creature becomes unaligned. Armor Class. The insectile creature gains natural armor if it did not already have better natural armor; without armor, its Armor Class is 13 + its Dexterity modifier. Ability Scores. The insectile creature’s Intelligence score decreases by 6 and its Charisma score decreases by 4, to a minimum of 1 each. Senses. The insectile creature has darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Languages. The insectile creature’s intellect and reasoning are drastically diminished. It loses all languages, although it can communicate telepathically with any azaka or creature with the aether tag. New Trait: Insectile Servitude. The insectile creature has advantage on saving throws against spells and effects that would give it the charmed or frightened condition. It always follows the orders of any azaka in the same hive as the thought-seeker that created it. If the insectile creature is part of a hive mind, the hive mind’s Disruptive Aura always applies to spells and magical effects that would grant control over the insectile creature’s actions or free the insectile creature from azaka control. Every 24 hours that the insectile creature goes without receiving any order, roll a d10. If the result is less than or equal to the number of times this roll has been made (including this time), the insectile creature becomes masterless (see below). It becomes masterless immediately if all azaka making up its hive are slain or otherwise lose control of it. New Trait: Kinetic Defense. Any nonmagical weapon that deals piercing or slashing damage to the insectile creature is damaged by kinetic backlash. If the weapon is a natural weapon, the attacker takes 3 (1d6) force damage. If the weapon is manufactured, after dealing damage, it takes a permanent and cumulative −1 penalty to damage rolls. If its penalty drops to −5, the weapon is destroyed. New Attack: Bite . The insectile creature gains an attack with its bite that deals 1d4 piercing damage. It has the finesse property, so it adds the higher of the insectile creature’s Strength and Dexterity modifiers to its attack and damage rolls. The insectile creature is proficient with its bite. If the attack’s target is a creature, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 5 (1d10) poison damage and become poisoned for 1 minute. At the end of each of the target’s turns, it makes another Constitution saving throw, ending the poisoned condition on a success. The save DC is equal to 8 + the insectile creature’s proficiency bonus + the insectile creature’s Constitution modifier. New Attack: Claws. The insectile creature gains an attack with its claws that deals 2d4 slashing damage. This attack has the finesse property, so it adds the higher of the insectile creature’s Strength and Dexterity modifiers to its attack and damage rolls. The insectile creature is proficient with its claws. Variant Insectile Creature: Masterless A masterless insectile creature has the following differences from the insectile creature template above. Ability Scores. The masterless insectile creature’s Intelligence score becomes 1. Condition Immunities. The masterless insectile creature is immune to the charmed and frightened conditions. Traits. The masterless insectile creature can’t cast spells and loses the Insectile Servitude trait. Variant Insectile Creature: Netherwarped A netherwarped insectile creature is polluted by exposure to life-destroying magical radiation. It must drain life from living creatures instead of feeding on magical mineral radiation. It has the following differences from the insectile creature template above. Alignment. The netherwarped insectile creature’s alignment is chaotic evil. New Trait: Life Stealing (1/Turn). When the netherwarped insectile creature hits a creature other than a construct or an undead with a melee attack, the creature takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by the amount of necrotic damage it took. A creature whose hit point maximum is reduced to 0 dies. The save DC is equal to 8 + the insectile creature’s proficiency bonus + the insectile creature’s Constitution modifier. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.H1Body, li.H1Body, div.H1Body {mso-style-name:"H1 Body"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-next:Normal; margin-top:12.0pt; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:none; page-break-after:avoid; mso-hyphenate:none; tab-stops:9.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; text-transform:uppercase; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold;}p.StatBlock1, li.StatBlock1, div.StatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1 Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.StatBlock1Char {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1 Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Expansion: 32483

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

