# Iridescent Naga

**description**: The beautiful iridescent naga has a 20-foot long serpentine body that is covered with reticulated scales that glimmer in rainbow hues as it moves. Its head has comely human or elven features that reflect its warm, friendly, and kind personality. It prefers to live in ancient, majestic ruins that are overgrown with vegetation and hidden within temperate forests and jungles. It does not stay long, though, as it spends most of its time exploring and chronicling the wonders and beauties of the world. Benevolent and Peaceful. The iridescent naga avoids combat whenever possible, always seeking nonviolent courses of action to end a conflict. If an encounter is unavoidable, the iridescent naga will try to escape first, engaging in violence only as a last resort. However, it will not hesitate to aid those that might need its help, especially the helpless, weak, and wounded. Enthralling Trickster. In combat, the iridescent naga will always try to incapacitate, confuse, or distract its foes without dealing lethal damage, just enough for it or those it is protecting to escape. Its array of enchantment and illusory spells make this possible, as well as a venomous bite that puts victims into a deep slumber. The iridescent naga can also keep its enemies entranced by swaying and weaving its body in a hypnotic pattern. Friendly Company. The iridescent naga is a solitary creature but will sometimes join the company of like-minded creatures, such as adventurers, bariaurs, elves, good-aligned fey, and guardinals. In such instances, the iridescent naga will be very inquisitive and is more than willing to trade stories about the places they have traveled and wonders they have witnessed. It may even provide important information, such as locations of long-forgotten ruins, ancient crypts, and lost treasure vaults. Of course, the iridescent naga may ask for something in return. Immortal Nature. A naga doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Hypnotic Sway. If a creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the naga and the creature can see the naga, it must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw if the naga isn't incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed for the duration. While charmed by this spell, the creature is incapacitated and has a speed of 0. The effect ends if a hypnotized creature takes any damage or if someone else uses an action to shake the creature out of its stupor. A creature that isn't surprised can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If it does so, it can't see the naga until the start of its next turn, when it can avert it s eyes again. If it looks at the naga in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. Rejuvenation. If it dies, the naga returns to life in 1d6 days and regains all its hit points. Only a wish spell can prevent this trait from functioning. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. Until this poison ends, the target is unconscious and is in a deep sleep. An unconscious creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the unconscious creature takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake, it gains advantage on its saving throw. Spellcasting. The naga casts one of the following spells, requiring only verbal components and Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: friends, mage hand, minor illusion, vicious mockery (2d4) 1/day each: banishment, counterspell, dissonant whispers, invisibility, legend lore, major image, polymorph, synaptic static Bonus Actions Taunt (4/Day). The naga targets one creature within 30 feet of it. If the target can hear the naga, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or have disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws until the start of the naga’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

