# Isperia

**description**: Isperia is the current guildmaster of the Azorius Senate . As a sphinx, she is aloof and values solitude above all. However, she has been forced to give up her privacy to deal with the increased crime and chaos on Ravnica. Isperia is devoted to her guild’s belief that law is the ultimate bulwark against chaos, and it is her steady hand that guides the Azorius through these uncertain times. As guildmaster, Isperia serves as the supreme judge, a role that takes advantage of her encyclopedic knowledge of Ravnica’s labyrinthine legal system. If an encounter turns violent, Isperia refrains from using lethal force if possible, preferring to subdue a wrongdoing so that the legal system can mete out justice. Isperia’s Traits Ideal: “The law provides direction for every arena of life; it is the only compass I need.” Bond: “I can’t stand by and watch disorder spread through the city. Without the Azorius, Ravnica would collapse. In the absence of order, we must establish it.” Flaw: “If Ravnica didn’t need me, I would prefer to live a life of solitude and contemplation.” Traits Innate Spellcasting. Isperia’s innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 23). Isperia can innately cast imprisonment twice per day, requiring no material components. Inscrutable. Isperia is immune to any effect that would sense her emotions or read her thoughts, as well as any divination spell that she refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain her intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Isperia fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Isperia has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. Isperia is a 15th-level Azorius spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 23, +14 to hit with spell attacks). Isperia has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): guidance, light, resistance, sacred flame, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): command, detect evil and good, ensnaring strike, sanctuary, shield of faith 2nd level (3 slots): arcane lock, augury, calm emotions, hold person, silence, zone of truth 3rd level (3 slots): bestow curse, clairvoyance, counterspell, dispel magic, tongues 4th level (3 slots): divination, locate creature 5th level (2 slots): dispel evil and good, scrying 6th level (1 slot): word of recall 7th level (1 slot): divine word 8th level (1 slot): antimagic field Actions Multiattack. Isperia makes two claw attacks. She can cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action in place of one claw attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw or take 14 (4d6) psychic damage after each attack it makes against Isperia before the start of her next turn. Supreme Legal Authority. Isperia chooses up to three creatures she can see within 90 feet of her. Each target must succeed on a DC 23 Intelligence saving throw or Isperia chooses an action for that target: Attack, Cast a Spell, Dash, Disengage, Dodge, Help, Hide, Ready, Search, or Use an Object. The affected target can’t take that action for 1 minute. At the end of each of the target’s turns, it can end the effect on itself with a successful DC 23 Intelligence saving throw. A target that succeeds on the saving throw becomes immune to Isperia’s Supreme Legal Authority for 24 hours. Legendary Actions Isperia can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Isperia regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Claw Attack. Isperia makes one claw attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Isperia casts a spell of 3rd level or lower from her list of prepared spells, using a spell slot as normal. Supreme Legal Authority (Costs 3 Actions). Isperia uses Supreme Legal Authority.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 7
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Guildmasters' Guide to Ravnica

