# Ithu'rath

**description**: Traits Amphibious. Ithu’rath can breathe air and water. Immutable Form. Ithu’rath is immune to any power, spell, or effect that would alter their form. Slimy Resistance ( 3 /Day). When Ithu’rath fails a saving throw, they can succeed on the save by channeling the power of their protective slime. Until the end of Ithu’rath’s next turn, creatures have advantage on the saving throw for Ithu’rath’s Devolving Tentacle attack. Supernatural Resistance. Ithu’rath has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. Actions Multiattack. Ithu’rath makes six Devolving Tentacle attacks and uses Piscine Transformation. Devolving Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) piercing damage. The first time a creature is hit with this attack on a turn, they must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be injected with a degenerative psionic slime (save ends at end of turn). While slimed, each time the creature makes an attack roll or an ability check, they must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the d20 roll. At the end of a slimed creature’s turn, the size of the subtracted die increases by one: the d4 becomes a d6, the d6 becomes a d8, and so on, to a maximum of d12. The cure ailment power or lesser restoration spell also ends this effect. *Piscine Transformation ( 3 rd-Order Power). Ithu’rath targets a creature with a head, legs, or torso they can see within 60 feet of them, blasting them with a pulse of transformational energy. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or undergo one of the following transformations of the Ithu’rath’s choice: Head. The target’s head transforms into the head of a fish, proportionately sized for their body. They can’t speak. Legs. The target’s legs become fins. Their walking speed is reduced to 10 feet (unless their walking speed is slower), and they gain a swimming speed of 30 feet. Torso. The target’s torso becomes the body of a fish with gills. They can only breathe water and can hold their breath for 1 hour. If the target isn’t underwater when this transformation takes effect, they begin suffocating. The transformation lasts until a cure ailment power of 4th order or higher or the greater restoration spell affects the target. A target who suffers all three transformations at once is permanently transformed into a hybrid fishlike creature and can only be returned to their original form by a wish spell or similar supernatural effects. Bonus Actions Jaunt ( 3 rd-Order Power). Ithu’rath teleports 30 feet to an unoccupied space they can see. Reactions *Liquefy ( 3 rd-Order Power). When a creature within 30 feet of Ithu’rath hits them with an attack, Ithu’rath can psionically barrage that creature. That creature must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be pushed 5 feet away from Ithu’rath and be restrained until the end of the creature’s next turn, as their lower body temporarily melts into an immovable goo. Villain Actions Ithu’rath has three villain actions. They can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. They can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Skeletal Collapse. Ithu’rath targets one or more creatures with a skeleton within 60 feet of them, attempting to temporarily melt their ligaments. Each target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d8) necrotic damage and have disadvantage on Strength- and Dexterity-based ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Action 2 : Psychic Pulse. Ithu’rath channels a pulse of telekinetic energy to scour and harry their foes. Each enemy within 60 feet of Ithu’rath must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or take 18 (4d8) force damage and be moved up to 30 feet in any direction. Action 3 : Slime Storm. Ithu’rath unleashes a cloud of transformative slime. Each creature within 60 feet of Ithu’rath who isn’t an olothec or a slime servant must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 45 (10d8) piercing damage and is blinded until the end of their next turn as their eyes temporarily turn into insectoid feelers. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

