# Iymrith the Dragon

**description**: The treacherous Iymrith is an ancient blue dragon, with the following changes: She speaks Giant and Terran in addition to Common and Draconic. She gains the Innate Spellcasting trait and the Change Shape action option, both described below. When she casts her stone shape spell, Iymrith can shape the targeted stone into a living gargoyle instead of altering the stone as described in the spell's description. This transformation is permanent and can't be reversed or dispelled. Traits Innate Spellcasting. Iymrith's spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20). Iymrith's stone shape can create a living gargoyle instead of altering stone as described in the spell description. She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 1/day each: counterspell, detect magic, ice storm, stone shape, teleport Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Iymrith fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Change Shape. Iymrith magically polymorphs into a female storm giant or back into her true form. She reverts to her true from if she dies. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (Iymrith's choice). In storm giant form, Iymrith retains her alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, Legendary Resistance, lair actions, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this action. Her statistics are otherwise replaced by those of the new form. Actions Multiattack. Iymrith can use her Frightful Presence. She then makes three attacks: one with her bite and two with her claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) lightning damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d8 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Iymrith's choice that is within 120 feet of Iymrith and aware of it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Iymrith's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Lightning Breath (Recharge 5-6). Iymrith exhales lightning in a 120-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw, taking 88 (16d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions Iymrith can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Iymrith regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Detect. Iymrith makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. Iymrith makes a tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). Iymrith beats her wings. Each creature within 15 feet of Iymrith must succeed on a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw or take 16 (2d6 + 9) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Iymrith can then fly up to half her flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 7387
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Storm King's Thunder

