# Jabberwock

**description**: Few beasts have inspired as many legends, poems, songs, and myths in as many cultures, as this bizarre draconic creature. The jabberwock hails from the fey realm of the First World and is part of a group of powerful First World creatures known collectively as the Tane. That the so-called “lesser jabberwocks” are still among the most powerful creatures from the First World speaks volumes to the danger a true jabberwock presents. Regardless of its level of power, a jabberwock appears the same as a long-necked, four-legged reptilian creature with immense teeth, large wings, bulging yellow eyes, and a long draconic tail. Jabberwock Traits Jaws That Bite. The jabberwock’s bite attack scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the jabberwock fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The jabberwock has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Planar Acclimation. The jabberwock treats the plane it is currently on as its native plane. Vorpal Fear. If the jabberwock takes damage from a vorpal sword , it becomes frightened until the end of its next turn. Whiffling. The jabberwock can use a bonus action when it flies or makes a wing attack during its turn, causing severe winds in a 30-foot radius around it. These winds move outward from the jabberwock and last until the start of its next turn. All other creatures besides the jabberwock within the area of effect move as if in difficult terrain and must succeed at a DC 24 Strength (Athletics) check to move toward the jabberwock. Actions Multiattack. The jabberwock uses Manxome Foe, then makes one bite attack and two claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 26 (3d10+10) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d6+10) slashing damage. Burble (Recharge 5–6). The jabberwock creates a blast of strange noises and shouted nonsense in the various languages it knows (and invariably some languages it doesn’t know), creating one of the following effects. Burble (Maddening). Each creature within 60 feet of the jabberwock must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or be subjected to the effects of confusion for 1 minute. Burble (Thundering). Each creature in a 60-foot cone must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 87 (25d6) thunder damage, is stunned until the end of the jabberwock’s next turn, and is deafened for 1 minute. A creature that succeeds takes half as much damage and does not become deafened and stunned. Eyes of Flame. Ranged Attack: +14 to hit, range 60/120 ft., two targets within 30 feet of each other. Hit: 56 (16d6) fire damage. If the target is a creature or a flammable object, it ignites. Until a creature takes an action to douse the fire, the target takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. Manxome Foe. The presence of a jabberwock is terrifying to its enemies. Each creature of the jabberwock’s choice that is within 120 feet of the jabberwock and aware of it must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the jabberwock’s Manxome Foe for the next 24 hours. Reactions Claws That Catch. If a creature within 10 feet of the jabberwock takes the Use an Object action, moves from its square, or makes a ranged attack, the jabberwock can make a claw attack against the creature. If the attack hits, the target is incapacitated and unable to move until the start of its next turn. Legendary Actions The jabberwock can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The jabberwock regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The jabberwock makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Eyes of Flame (Costs 3 Actions). The jabberwock makes an Eyes of Flame attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The jabberwock beats its wings. Each creature within 20 feet of the jabberwock must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 24 (4d6+10) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The jabberwock can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

