# Jackalwere Deceiver

**description**: Some jackalweres exhibit uncanny intelligence and develop a talent for deception. These jackalwere deceivers become bards and are sent to the College of Whispers by their masters. With their new abilities, these jackalweres are used for the more complex missions of assassination, spreading false information, sabotage, and spying. Jackalwere deceivers will never put themselves at risk unnecessarily, such as physically engaging in a fight. They will always try to outwit or negotiate their way out of a bind. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The jackalwere has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Pack Tactics. The jackalwere has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the warhound's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Psychic Blades (3/Day). The jackalwere deals an extra 10 (3d6) psychic damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack. Actions Bite (Jackal or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Scimitar (Human or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage. Sleep Gaze. The jackalwere gazes at one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target succumbs to a magical slumber, falling unconscious for 10 minutes or until someone uses an action to shake the target awake. A creature that successfully saves against the effect is immune to this jackalwere's gaze for the next 24 hours. Undead and creatures immune to being charmed aren't affected by it. Spellcasting. The jackalwere casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks): At will: minor illusion, thunderclap (2d6), vicious mockery (2d4) 1/day each: blindness/deafness, charm person, dissonant whispers, earth tremor, enemies abound, hold person, major image, thunderwave Change Shape. The jackalwere magically transforms into a specific Medium human or a jackal-humanoid hybrid, or back into its true form (that of a Small jackal), while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the jackalwere is reduced to 0 hit points or uses a bonus action to end it. Bonus Actions Dark Whispers. The jackalwere targets one creature within 30 feet of it. If the target can hear the jackalwere, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from the jackalwere by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn't take the Dash action. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn't have line of sight to the jackalwere, the creature can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends. Reactions Vexing Howl (Recharge 4–6). When a creature within 30 feet of the jackalwere, is visible to the jackalwere, and can hear the jackalwere makes an attack roll but before the outcome is determined, the jackalwere can impose disadvantage to the creature's attack roll. If the attack misses, the creature must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or take 13 (3d8) psychic damage and is knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

