# Jaeger

**description**: The jaegers of Luyarnha stand as the city's premier line of defense, a formidable force whose might single-handedly turned the tides of battle in the First War. These warriors exhibit an unwavering commitment to their city, always the first to answer the call of duty and often the last thing their adversaries see. In their hands, the jaegers wield potent trick weapons gifted to them by the Church and other factions dedicated to the city's salvation. With these instruments of destruction, they can decimate entire squadrons of beasts and humanoids, nimbly evading attacks and relentlessly pursuing their quarries until their blades sink into their targets. The mysterious process of their creation is closely guarded by their creators, the enigmatic Obitus Scholare. With the ongoing city lockdown, however, the ranks of the jaegers have been gradually thinning. They fall in battle more rapidly than new jaegers can be forged. It is the hope of all citizens that Luyarnha can stem the tide of the Scourge before their mightiest shield shatters. Every jaeger’s life revolves around a strict regimen of training and battle, honing their skills and reflexes beyond the potential of mere mortals: with each kill, they sharpen their instincts, bolstering their own strength and becoming harder to kill—an unfortunate truth that applies even to those of them who lose their sanity. Jaegers are the city’s greatest hope and the embodiment of its deepest fear—the jaegers, ever the hunters, ever the hunted. Traits Encircling Strikes. Once per turn, when the jaeger attacks from the opposite side of a creature from where it started its turn, or attacks while on the opposite side of a creature from an ally, it deals an additional 3 (1d6) damage on a hit. Evasion. If the jaeger is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the jaeger instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Flexible Combatant. When the jaeger draws or stows a weapon, it can draw or stow another weapon with the other hand. It can reload weapons with the loading, reload, or barrel properties without a free hand. Additionally, if the jaeger is carrying a one-handed melee weapon in one hand, and a one-handed ranged weapon in the other hand, it doesn’t have disadvantage on attack rolls with ranged weapons from being within 5 feet of a hostile creature. Hemorrhaging Wound (Recharge 5-6). The jaeger can’t use this trait on the first round of combat. When the jaeger hits a creature with a blade attack, it rends a vicious wound. At the end of each of the target's turns, it loses 17 (5d6) hit points. Each time the target takes damage from this effect, the number of dice of damage it takes at the end of its next turn is reduced by one, and the bleeding stops when the number of dice is reduced to 0. A bleeding creature can make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, after taking the damage, ending the effect on a success. The DC equals 15 + half the number of dice of damage remaining (rounded down). If the jaeger hits a bleeding target with a blade attack, the target doesn’t gain a new wound, but its wound’s damage resets to 5d6. Magic Weapons. The jaeger's weapon attacks are magical. Piercing Gaze (1/Day). The jaeger gains darkvision out to 120 feet and the effect of see invisibility for 1 hour (no action required). Sharp Senses. Whenever the jaeger uses its Dodge Step, Weapon Parry , or Chasing Finisher , it gains advantage on its next attack roll. Special Equipment. The jaeger wields a dream executioner. Alternatively it can be wielding an orphan's cradle , a serpent bladewhip , or a meat hookshot . Its blade attack and references to it are replaced with an attack made with the respective weapon. Actions Multiattack. The jaeger makes three blade attacks. If it is wielding a firearm, it can also make one firearm attack. Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) slashing damage. Firearm. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Bonus Actions Chasing Finisher (Recharge 5-6). The jaeger moves 40 feet and makes a blade attack. On a hit, the target takes an additional 14 (4d6) slashing damage. Reactions Dodge Step (3/Short Rest). When a creature the jaeger can see attacks it, if its speed isn’t 0, it moves up to 10 feet without provoking opportunity attacks and makes a Dexterity saving throw with a DC equal to the attack roll’s result. On a success, it evades completely and the attack misses. On a failure, it takes only half damage if the attack hits. Weapon Parry (3/Short Rest). The jaeger fires off a bullet to deflect an attack that it can see within 60 feet of it. To do so, the jaeger must be wielding a firearm. It reduces the attack’s damage by 13 (1d10 + 8). If this reduces the damage to 0, the attacker is stunned until the start of its next turn, as the bullet hits a nervous junction.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

