# Jael the Hunter

**description**: Appearance and Personality: Jael is a large, muscular brute of a man. He is Dornish, though he has long since discarded any trappings of his ancestral culture. Instead, he wears heavy plate armor and keeps his blond hair cropped short. He is cold and calculating, with a quick wit and deliberate manner. Pursuing the PCs and working with Wendell is absolutely exhausting for Jael. While he is a generally patient person, he is not accustomed to undertaking a hunt that goes on for months. Normally, he prefers to secure his prey, and then play with them. He enjoys seeing his victims squirm, so if given an opportunity, he is anxious to leave his prey incapacitated, so that they may watch and suffer as he destroys their friends and allies. Strategically, Jael selects a target and pursues it to completion. Once he engages a foe, he continues to battle them until they are no longer a threat. Only then does he move onto his next target. When he is familiar with his prey, Jael always prioritizes his targets well in advance. He believes in eliminating foes who present the greatest danger to him first, before moving onto others. He prioritizes his own health over that of his allies at all times. Traits Cloak of the Bat. Jael advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If Jael fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magebane. When Jael damages a creature that is concentrating on a spell, that creature has disadvantage on the saving throw it makes to maintain its concentration. Bonus Actions Sadistic Satisfaction. On a turn in which Jael makes an attack that reduces a creature to 0 hit points, he can use a bonus action to regain 2d10 + 3 hit points. Actions Multiattack. Jael makes two attacks with his blood-­quenched black iron mace , and then makes a sweep attack. Blood-­quenched black iron mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Sweep Attack. All creatures within 5 feet of Jael must make a DC 15 Dexterity save. If they fail, they suffer 6 bludgeoning damage and are pushed 5 feet directly away from Jael. Staggering Kick. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 5 bludgeoning damage and the target must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet directly away from Jael. Polymorph. While wearing the cloak of the bat in an area of dim light or darkness, Jael can use his action to cast polymorph on himself, transforming into a bat. While he is in the form of the bat, he retains his Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The cloak can’t be used this way again until the next dawn. Reactions Artful Footwork. When a creature misses Jael with a melee attack roll, he can use his reaction to cause that attack to hit one creature of his choice, other than the attacker, that he can see within 5 feet of him. Legendary Actions Jael can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Jael regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Command Astirax. One of Jael’s astirax allies can move 30 feet and take a single action. If the astirax is in its natural form, it can use this action to make an Ethereal Blow attack or use the Possession action if it is currently available to it. If the astirax has possessed a creature, it can make a single melee weapon attack in its profile. Defensive Stance. Jael takes the Dodge action, lasting until the start of his next turn. Staggering Kick. Jael makes a Staggering Kick attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 30502
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

