# Jarlaxle Baenre

**description**: Jarlaxle is a flamboyant, swashbuckling drow iconoclast. He leads a renegade drow faction called Bregan D’aerthe, made up of disenfranchised male drow, most of them culled from destroyed or disgraced houses. Gifted with a sharp mind, a sense of humour, puissant skill with a blade, and a wealth of useful magic items, Jarlaxle infiltrated the city of Luskan, brought a kind of order to its lawlessness, and declared himself its secret lord. Traits Special Equipment. Jarlaxle wears +3 leather armor , a hat of disguise , a bracer of flying daggers (see appendix C), a cloak of invisibility , a knave’s eye patch (see appendix A), and a ring of truth telling (see appendix A). He wields a +3 rapier and carries a portable hole and a wand of web . His hat is adorned with a feather of diatryma summoning (see appendix C). Evasion. If he is subjected to an effect that allows him to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, Jarlaxle instead takes no damage if he succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if he fails. He can’t use this trait if he’s incapacitated. Fey Ancestry. Jarlaxle has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to sleep. Innate Spellcasting. Jarlaxle’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: dancing lights 1/day each: darkness , faerie fire , levitate (self only) Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If Jarlaxle fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Master Attuner. Jarlaxle can attune to up to five magic items, and he can attune to magic items that normally require attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Jarlaxle deals an extra 24 (7d6) damage when he hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of Jarlaxle’s that isn’t incapacitated and Jarlaxle doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Suave Defence. While Jarlaxle is wearing light or no armour and wielding no shield, his AC includes his Charisma modifier. Sunlight Sensitivity. When not wearing his knave’s eye patch , Jarlaxle has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. Jarlaxle makes three attacks with his +3 rapier or two attacks with daggers created by his bracer of flying daggers . +3 Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (1d8 + 9) piercing damage. Flying Dagger. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d4 + 6) piercing damage. Legendary Actions Jarlaxle can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Jarlaxle regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Quick Step. Jarlaxle moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). Jarlaxle makes one attack with his +3 rapier or two attacks with daggers created by his bracer of flying daggers .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

