# Jinmenju

**description**: The incessant sound of laughter fills the air, as if dozens of mirthful spirits are tittering at an unheard joke. The sound seems to come from a magnificent apple tree that bears dozens upon dozens of white apples, all of which shake in an unfelt breeze. Closer inspection reveals that each apple bears a face howling with laughter. Bearer of Laughing Fruit. Legends say that the first jinmenju tree sprouted from the severed head of a traveling jester. The tree that grew from the jester's head bore white fruit with a human face that laughed incessantly. If the jinmenju tree can be made to laugh uproariously, such as with a hideous laughter spell or a joke told with a successful DC 15 Charisma (Performance) check, a piece of fruit falls from the tree and rolls away, growing into a new jinmenju over 1d4 weeks if it stays on the ground. Terrifying Jokester. Despite its unsettling appearance and demeanor, the jinmenju tree simply wants to bring happiness to other living creatures. The tree cannot move, but its magic is so powerful that people living near the tree have dreams calling them to sit beneath its boughs and blissfully eat its fruit. Though the jinmenju means no harm by its psychic intrusions, its actions often destroy communities and spread horror across the land. The tree itself cannot talk, but its fruit can hear its thoughts and speak them one word at a time, split between all the fruit on the tree. When the jinmenju wishes to convey a particularly strong emotion--often in the punchline of a joke--all of its fruit speaks at once. A Jinmenju's Lair A jinmenju grows wherever its seeds take root. Since animals are unaffected by its fruit's magic, they can spread its seeds by eating the fruit and excreting the seeds, just like any other plant. Sometimes travelers pick jinmenju fruit and take it along to keep them company until it rots and they discard it. A jinmenju prefers to grow in shady groves and temperate rainforests, and jinmenju saplings will sometimes ask travelers to uproot them and relocate them to more favorable terrain. An adult jinmenju usually keeps an audience nearby to listen to its jokes, though it often doesn't realize its psychic influence is keeping them there against their will. The lairs of ancient jinmenju look clean but are filled with hidden caches of bones and the starved corpses of those unable to break its thrall. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the jinmenju takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; it can't use the same lair action two rounds in a row. The jinmenju sways its branches, causing its fruit to sing a soothing melody. Each creature within 60 feet that can hear the jinmenju must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or suffer the effects of the *charm person *spell until initiative count 20 on the next round. The jinmenju shakes its branches, causing its fruit to scream gibberish. Each creature within 60 feet that can hear the jinmenju must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or suffer the effects of the *confusion*spell until initiative count 20 on the next round. The jinmenju wiggles its branches, causing its fruit to giggle a cacophony of merriment. Each creature within 60 feet that can hear the jinmenju must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or suffer the effects of the hideous laughter spell until initiative count 20 on the next round. Regional Effects The region containing a jinmenju's lair is warped by its magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: People within 6 miles of the jinmenju have a 10% chance each night of experiencing a strange and enthralling dream. The dreamer is sitting with hundreds of other happy, laughing people beneath the boughs of a tree that bears white apples. When the dreamer awakens, it is psychically compelled to seek out the tree. People who live within 1 mile of the jinmenju find everyday occurrences unusually funny, often laughing at unhappy news or at inappropriate events, like funerals. If the jinmenju dies, these supernatural effects disappear after 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: plant
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

