# Jongleur Grand Maestro

**description**: With a mischievous grin and colorful attire, the jongleur employs a unique blend of physical comedy, biting insults, and nimble movements to confuse and incapacitate foes. Its quick wit and sharp tongue are weapons in themselves, leaving adversaries bewildered and distracted. In addition to its acrobatic prowess, the jongleur hurls poison-coated daggers and throwing knives with deadly accuracy. It enhances its performances with bardic magic, weaving spells of enchantment, illusion, and trickery. The jongleur is a delightful enigma, combining laughter, dexterity, and the power of music and magic to both entertain and leave adversaries reeling in the face of its whimsical yet potent abilities. Traits Persistent Magic. When the jongleur ends or loses its concentration on an active spell, that spell lasts until the end of the jongleur's next turn, even if the jongleur casts another spell that requires concentration. Actions Multiattack. The jongleur makes two Dagger attacks. Alternatively, it can make one Dagger attack and use Spellcasting. Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage. Absurd Shenanigans (Recharges 5–6). The jongleur hurls insults, witty wordplay, and uses physical comedy to create a moment of irony and surprise. Each creature of the jongleur's choice within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed for 1 minute. A charmed creature suffers the effect of the confusion spell. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the jongleur's Absurd Shenanigans for the next 24 hours. Fan of Knives (3/Day). The jongleur hurls a set of daggers and throwing knives in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 20 (6d4 + 5) piercing damage plus 21 (6d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting . The jongleur casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: mage hand, minor illusion, vicious mockery (4d4) 2/day each: animate objects, charm person, irresistible dance, mirror image, polymorph, stinking cloud, thunderwave 1/day each: foresight, freedom of movement, glibness, mirage arcane Bonus Actions Disengage. The jongleur takes the Disengage action. Hilarious Act. The jongleur targets a creature within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or falls into fits of laughter. The target is prone, incapacitated, and unable to stand up until the end of the jongleur's next turn. A creature that can't hear or understand the jongleur, or has an Intelligence score of 4 or less, isn't affected. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the jongleur's Hilarious Act for the next 24 hours. Reactions Dance Around. When an attacker the jongleur can see makes an attack roll against the jongleur, the jongleur can impose disadvantage on the attack roll. If the attack roll is successful, the jongleur only takes half as much damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

