# Jourrael, the Caedogeist

**description**: “Of the great, terrible legends born in the blood and fire of the Calamity, few managed to defy mortality and endure the ages as deftly as the assassin queen Jourrael. Blessed by shadow and death, they walk between realms, relishing the hunt and stalking their target tirelessly, unburdened by wall, gate, or door. Whatever poor soul finds the ire of the Caedogeist can only accept their ‘Inevitable End.’” —Unnamed scholar of the Cobalt Soul Jourrael is a nightmarish specter and ancient assassin of many names. The Spider Queen bestowed upon her the title of Caedogeist, the specter of silent death, while scholars describe Jourrael as “the Inevitable End,” more certain than death. Those who catch a glimpse of her whisper of a nightmarish wraith wielding daggers dripping poison, hair like fire, skin shielded in shadow, and able to walk through walls and mountains as if they were water. Death Forbidden. Jourrael cannot die. A contract between the Lord of the Hells and the Spider Queen forbids death from claiming the assassin, though many have tried—often in increasingly creative ways. At the Calamity’s end, armies joined together to separate Jourrael’s body into disparate parts. The Savalirwood elves took their head to Veluthil, while their heart was hidden in the Lotusden Greenwood under a dread wraithroot tree. The mysterious fiend Obann falsely believed that after recovering and reviving Jourrael, he could control her indefinitely. Inevitably, Jourrael dealt a killing blow to Obann, sending him to the death she will never meet. Unbound Future. Alive and well, Jourrael still serves the Spider Queen. Their ghostly form and unmatchable stealth fuel the attacks of their spectral blade and void dagger, with few surviving that onslaught. They shrug off nature’s elements and mortals’ weapons, won’t be held against their will, and know no fear. After having spent so long dismembered and sealed away, Jourrael is eager to see the world of Exandria—and to kill any creature they deem worthy of dying on their blades. Alignment. Chaotic evil. Traits Incorporeal Movement. Jourrael can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. They take 5 (1d10) force damage if they end their turn inside an object. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Jourrael deals an extra 35 (10d6) damage when they hit a target with a weapon attack and have advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of Jourrael that isn’t incapacitated and Jourrael doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Innate Spellcasting. Jourrael’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: dancing lights 1/day each: darkness, faerie fire Inevitable. If Jourrael is reduced to 0 hit points, they do not fall unconscious but become an incorporeal spirit for 24 hours. During this time, Jourrael can’t return to their original form until they return to full hit points. In this form, they are invisible, can’t attack or interact with corporeal creatures or objects, and can’t be targeted by spells. After 24 hours have passed, Jourrael regains 1 hit point and returns to their original form with four levels of exhaustion. Actions Multiattack. Jourrael makes two melee attacks or two ranged attacks. Spectral Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d6 + 7) slashing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is also unconscious while poisoned in this way. The target wakes up if it takes damage or if another creature takes an action to shake it awake. Void Dagger. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d4 + 7) piercing damage. Bonus Actions Cunning Action. Jourrael can take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Mirrored Form (Recharges after a Short Rest). Jourrael manifests three illusory duplicates that hover in her space. Each time a creature targets Jourrael with an attack, roll a d20 to see if it hits one of the duplicates. If there are three duplicates, a duplicate is targeted on a roll of 6 or higher. With two duplicates, a duplicate is targeted on a roll of 8 or higher. A single duplicate is targeted on a roll of 11 or higher. A duplicate’s AC is 17, and it is destroyed if hit. Jourrael can hide the duplicates as a bonus action. Reactions Parry. Jourrael adds 5 to their AC against one melee attack that would hit them. To do so, they must see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (drow)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

