# Jowchit Girallon

**description**: Girallons are found on many worlds and are often genuinely savage killers, carnivorous four-armed monstrosities, but the ape-world of Jowchit features a seemingly unique offshoot of their race. Their large frame and imposing visage belie gentle spirits and inquisitive natures. Their gigantic, four armed bodies are a surprising vehicle for a race of quiet scholars and gentle monks. Physically, Jowchit girallons are larger, more evolved versions of their lesser cousins. They stand 9 feet tall and weigh nearly a thousand pounds. Mentally they are even more different, boasting a much higher intelligence than their smaller brethren on other worlds. They also lack the reclusive nature and evil alignment of their cousins, tending to live in mixed communities with garil and vanara. Peaceful. For the most part, the garillons of Jowchit eschew weaponry, preferring to use whatever is nearby and are experts at improvising what they need should combat prove unavoidable. Their relationship with magic is similar and as intuitive. They can often coax effects from magic items and can always see magical auras. Garil Symbiosis. It is not known how long the association between the garil and the girallons of Jowchit has existed, but it is practically symbiotic at the cultural level. The girallon of this world form a significant cross section of the great thinkers and sages of the planet, and for the most part, they live amongst the garil and vanara population. They tend to avoid leadership positions, although the occasional leader will rise from their ranks. Studious. All Jowchit girallons pick a specific area of scholarly study as their focus to represent their area of research and dedication to the pursuit of knowledge. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatDescription, li.StatDescription, div.StatDescription {mso-style-name:"Stat Description"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.ItemDescription, li.ItemDescription, div.ItemDescription {mso-style-name:"Item Description"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:"Stat Description"; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

