# Jubilost Narthropple (Level 8)

**description**: Jubilost Narthropple is a gnome of many words, often spoken in multiple languages and laden with biting observations and veiled insults. Jubilost would have others believe he’s well-traveled, but when the PCs first meet him, the majority of his adventures consist of those imagined while reading books in the safety of his home. Traits Equipment. Dagger, light crossbow, crossbow bolts (10), acid flasks (4), alchemist’s fire (4), potions of healing (2), scholar’s pack, antitoxin, alchemist’s supplies, thieves’ tools, traveler’s clothes. Arcane Recovery (1/Day). When he finishes a short rest, Jubilost chooses expended spell slots to recover. The spell slots can have a combined level that is equal to or less than two levels. Artificer’s Lore. Whenever Jubilost makes an Intelligence (History) check related to magic items, alchemical objects, or technological devices, he can add twice his proficiency bonus (+3). Bomb Thrower. Jubilost possesses the Bomb Thrower feat. Cunning Action. Cunning Action. On each of his turns, Jubilost can use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use an Object actions; to make a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check; or to use his thieves’ tools to disarm a trap or open a lock. Gnome Cunning. Jubilost has advantage on all Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws against magic. Savant. The gold and time Jubilost must spend to copy a transmutation spell into his spellbook is halved. Second-Story Work. Climbing does not cost Jubilost extra movement. When he makes a running jump, the distance he covers increases by a number of feet equal to his Dexterity modifier (+3). Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Jubilost deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage when he hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of him that isn’t incapacitated and Jubilost doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Spellcasting. Jubilost is a 4th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): acid splash, dancing lights, mending, poison spray 1st level (4 slots): alarm, comprehend languages, false life, grease, shield 2nd level (3 slots): acid arrow, shatter Tinker. Jubilost has proficiency with artisan’s tools (tinker’s tools). Using those tools, he can spend 1 hour and 10 gp worth of materials to construct a Tiny clockwork device (AC 5, 1 hp). The device ceases to function after 24 hours (unless he spends 1 hour repairing it to keep the device functioning), or when he uses his action to dismantle it; at that time, he can reclaim the materials used to create it. He can have up to three such devices active at a time. When you create a device, choose one of the following options: Clockwork Toy: This toy is a clockwork animal, monster, or person, such as a frog, mouse, bird, dragon, or soldier. When placed on the ground, the toy moves 5 feet across the ground on each of his turns in a random direction. It makes noises as appropriate to the creature it represents. Fire Starter: The device produces a miniature flame, which he can use to light a candle, torch, or campfire. Using the device requires his action. Music Box: When this music box is opened, it plays a single song at a moderate volume. The box stops playing when it reaches the song’s end or when it is closed. Transmutation. By spending 10 minutes, Jubilost can transform 1 cubic foot of an item made of wood, non-precious stone, iron, copper, or silver entirely into another one of those substances. After one hour, or if he loses concentration (as a spell), all the transmuted material reverts to its natural material. Actions Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. Acid Flask. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 20 ft., one target. Hit: The target takes 10 (2d6 +3) acid damage. On a hit, Jubilost can attempt a secondary hit against a target in range and within 5 feet of the original target (see Bomb Thrower), inflicting 3 acid damage on a hit. Alchemist’s Fire. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 20 ft., one target. Hit: The target takes 2 (1d4) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature can end this damage by using its action to make a DC 14 Dexterity check to attempt to extinguish the flames.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: humanoid (gnome)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

