# Jubjub Bird

**description**: The large, colorful bird spreads its wings, shrieking as its snakelike tail sways, poised to strike. A jubjub bird's brightly colored feathers and powerful body taper into a long, scaled snakelike tail. They make their homes in forests and grasslands, and they are large, swift hunters. Flights of Passion. Jubjub birds are naturally aggressive and respond forcefully to any perceived threat or intrusion. They can and do chase humanoids for miles just for crossing through their territories. Luckily, they're terrible flyers. On at least one occasion, a jubjub bird, inflamed by travelers who built a cottage on its territory while it was away, proceeded to screech incessantly outside the dwelling day and night. The newcomers abandoned their new farmstead. Jubjub bird aggression goes double with others of their kind. Though they interact briefly while mating, they cannot share territory, eventually attacking each other and marking out exacting boundaries. Two jubjub's settled near one another makes a volatile mix, prone to spilling over into traveler campsites or even into nearby fields, orchards, or bridges over streams. When vigilant against another jubjub bird, they may guard settled sites, fields, and paths against all comers. Earning Trust. With creatures other than their own kind, jubjub birds can form a bond of lifelong trust. Though it requires months of time and effort, trained jubjub birds are supportive companions and loyal pets. Some wealthy eccentrics make them into guardians for their lavish and sprawling estates, which the birds view as their own territory, defending it relentlessly. Jubjub Eggs. These creatures' watermelon-sized eggs are very rare and highly sought after by collectors and would-be animal trainers—and by chefs to the very wealthy. Jubjub birds lay only a single egg each season, and their breeding season spans multiple years. Jubjub hens often abandon their young, leading the chicks to develop rather quickly. Fortunately, young jubjub birds can take care of themselves not long after hatching. Shrill Screech. When agitated, the jubjub bird makes a near-constant shrill and high scream, giving it advantage on Charisma (Intimidation) checks. Stubborn. The jubjub bird has advantage on saving throws against being charmed. In addition, Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks are made with disadvantage against the jubjub bird. Unpredictable. Opportunity attacks against the jubjub bird are made with disadvantage. Actions Multiattack. The jubjub bird makes two Bite attacks, or it makes one Bite attack and one Constrict attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the creature is restrained, and the jubjub bird can't constrict another target. Reactions Impassioned Riposte. When a creature the jubjub bird can see misses it with an attack while within 10 feet of it, the jubjub bird can make one Bite attack against the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

