# Julia Petal

**description**: “Making music, that’s all I care about.” A musician, Julia has managed to become a famous singer adored by the Cyherested public at a very early age. She has a charming aura, an excellent voice, and bewitching dance moves. Everything she is and does is subject to newspapers, editorials and radio shows, which scour heaven and earth to find out about her looks, partners, planned concerts and future projects. Many call her the “New Songbird” or “Newbird” after Donatella Songbird, another famous singer who passed away more than half a century ago. Her fame even attracts some Kanrath citizens who come to Cyherested just to watch her perform. Julia’s Story Julia was born in Bard Town , twenty seven years ago. Her mother had decided to settle in Cyherested after her father died in a work accident. Her mother worked in various pubs, restaurants, and motels in Bard Town as a waitress, a dishwasher, or a housekeeper, and Julia thus grew up among artists. She saw thousands of performances, listened to all manner of songs, and discovered that she herself wanted to take the stage as soon as possible. At 15, she was making good money through her performances. One night, she was discovered by a group of CAMP College teachers who immediately recognized her talent and urged her to apply to the school. She did as they said and was immediately admitted, becoming the youngest student to ever be accepted to the prestigious school. Julia didn’t achieve her luxurious lifestyle fast. When she graduated and continued her work as an artist, the media started to take notice. She started to be featured in all sorts of publications, and every aspect of her life made the papers. There was one local paper in particular that reflected her life quite well, so she bought a share of said paper at 21 years old. It was at this point that her fortune started to snowball, and she began to truly build her empire as it is today. Today, at 27 years old, she has preserved her famous persona. She has a grand fortune and shares in numerous media companies. There have been many who have tried to rise to fame as she did, trying to retrace her steps, but none have succeeded in achieving her star status. Julia’s Goals Even though Julia has great fortune and is fond of material possessions, her true wish is to have fun, continue making music, and to live out her days happily. Roleplaying Julia Needless to say, Julia has a charming aura. Her appearance, facial expressions, gestures, and tone of voice are perfect notes composing a great melody. She doesn’t like talking about depressing or unpleasant things. She might even refuse to listen to them. Julia is a party animal; she loves dancing, drinking, and having fun with friends. She often throws lavish parties at her penthouse where everyone is guaranteed a good time. Julia in Combat Combat is not her cup of tea. She leaves it to her private guards and flees the scene. She is accompanied by 3 Bloodwork Automatons (patrol) at all times. If she has to fight, she relies on her spellcasting and musical prowess. If Julia is attacked in public in Cyherested, citizens do their best to help her including alerting the CBI or street gangs, and even engaging in combat.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (half orc)
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

