# Justice Archon

**description**: The fearsome justice archons are the peacekeepers in Mount Celestia, appearing as winged humanoids garbed in resplendent-looking plate armor. Zealous Inquisitors. If anyone commits an atrocity in the Upper Planes, you can be sure that justice archons will come for them. Unfortunately, their zealousness to mete swift justice often brings them into conflict with those who ask for mercy or leniency. Despite these issues, justice archons are highly valued for their vigilance and fervor. When encountered in the Material Plane, justice archons are likely on a mission to capture or deliver judgement on a creature. Archons The mighty archons are exalted celestial champions who maintain peace, uphold justice, and serve the angels and deities of Arcadia, Bytopia, and the Seven Heavens of Mount Celestia. Benevolent Guardians. Whereas angels act more as agents, commanders, and generals, archons fill the role of soldiers, scouts, and support specialists. They protect the innocent and defenseless and aid the wounded and sick. They despise and stand against malevolent supernatural creatures such as demons, devils, yugoloths, and evil undead. They capture and bring to justice powerful creatures who have performed depraved and despicable acts. Unfortunately, their unwavering sense of righteousness often leaves them vulnerable to manipulation and conflict. Blessed Champions. Archons never willingly use violence unless it is necessary. However, if combat is unavoidable, archons can be a terrifying thing to behold as they become justice and vengeance personified. They radiate an aura of menace that can sap the will of their foes. Archons are expert battle tacticians, able to teleport at will and cast powerful divine spells that can aid allies and banish foes. In addition to their impressive powers, they are also fearless, tireless, resistant to most attacks, and can’t be charmed. Divine Agents. While they rarely leave Mount Celestia, archons can be encountered anywhere, even in the Lower Planes. They frequently travel to the Material Plane on a variety of missions, acting as couriers, messengers, spies, or marshals. Archons have been known to assist adventurers, especially if they are favored by their deities. Types of Archons. There are eight major types of archons, each with different characteristics and abilities. The hound archon, justice archon, and lantern archons are the most numerous ones, and make up the bulk of the archon army, serving as foot soldiers, guards, and scouts. The owl archon, trumpet archon, and warden archon are specialists, while the sword archon and the throne archon act as military officers. Immortal Nature. An archon doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Aura of Menace. The archon emanates an aura of menace in a 30-foot radius. The first time any enemy creature enters the aura or starts its turn there during a battle, the creature must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the archon for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. Magic Resistance. The archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The archon makes two Greatsword attacks. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: aid, continual flame, detect evil and good 1/day: magic circle Teleport. The archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Bonus Actions Justice Strike (3/Day). The archon deals extra damage when it hits a creature with a melee attack. The extra damage depends on the target's alignment: Any Evil: 13 (3d8) radiant damage. Chaotic Neutral or Neutral: 9 (2d8) radiant damage. Chaotic Good or Lawful Neutral: 4 (1d8) radiant damage. Reactions Castigating Strike. When a creature within 5 feet of the archon deals damage to an ally, the archon makes a melee weapon attack against that creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

