# Kapre

**description**: Kapre (Ka-pre) Sometimes mistaken for a verbeeg or ogre, the kapre is a large fey that resembles a muscular 8-foot tall humanoid with long, wild black hair and yellow eyes that glow in the dark. Thick, wild hair covers most of its muscular body. The kapre prefers not to wear armor, favoring simple fur and leather clothing. It often wields a tree branch as a heavy club. Treebound. Similar to a dryad, the kapre is bound to its tree. It can emerge from the tree at night and explore the lands around it, but the tree remains as its home. Such a tree grows healthier and more prominent than the other trees around it. The kapre is fiercely territorial and takes umbrage on anyone that would harm or despoil its tree and the area surrounding it. If the tree is destroyed, the kapre becomes insane with rage, attacking the nearest creature it can see until it or the kapre is dead. Invisible Trickster. At night, one would see fireflies from the kapre's tree. These fireflies are actually embers from the kapre's pipe, accompanied by smoke and the sweet smell of dried tobacco leaves. The kapre does this to possibly lure individuals to its tree. While remaining invisible, it will observe, eavesdrop, or play pranks on them. Those who have fallen victim to the kapre's pranks describe the experience of becoming confused, forgetful, and unable to get away from the tree. From time to time, due to its curiosity or a simple desire for intelligent conversation, the kapre will leave its tree and venture out at night, always in the form of a small beast, such as a cat or dog, hoping that it would attract the attention of someone that would pet it. Obsessive Stalker. The kapre is fascinated with humans, particularly of the opposite sex. Sometimes, if the kapre finds a person it is observing attractive or interesting, it would reveal its true self. Those that manage to overcome their fears of meeting a kapre and become friends with it describe the kapre as a great storyteller who regales them with funny and wondrous anecdotes from the Feywild. Unfortunately, a kapre also tends to be obsessive. A smitten kapre, if spurned, may resort to stalking the person it desires. The kapre becomes very possessive and protective that any potential suitors of its target are dealt with immediately. These hapless victims soon find themselves suddenly lost, unable to find their way home, and cursed to wander the woods until they starve to death. Eventually, the kapre may become desperate and resort to abducting the object of its affection and bringing it to its Feywild home. There the kapre keeps the kidnapped victim as its slave and prisoner, never letting it go until it dies or it gets tired of it. Mystifying Smoke. A kapre can be a dangerous adversary in combat. Aside from it being as strong as an ogre, it is a cunning trickster that can curse and distract its foes with its spells. Worse still, the smoke the kapre can exhale can magically distort creatures' perceptions. Anyone caught within it can suffer from a number of different debilitating effects, leaving them vulnerable to the kapre. Traits Magic Resistance. The kapre has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The kapre uses Smoke Breath, if available. It then makes two melee attacks or two ranged attacks. Heavy Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. Spellcasting. The kapre casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: dancing lights, sleep (3rd level), suggestion, invisibility 1/day each: bestow curse, major image Smoke Breath (Recharge 5-6). The kapre exhales thick magical smoke in a 20-foot cube. The smoke spreads around corners. Unless noted otherwise, the smoke doesn't obscure vision and lasts for 1 minute or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it. The kapre chooses from the following effects: 1. Bewildering Smoke. Each creature that enters the smoke or starts its turn there must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the start of the creature's next turn. While charmed in this way, a creature suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The kapre doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. 2. Obscuring Smoke. The area of the smoke is heavily obscured. The kapre can see normally while in the smoke. 3. Stupefying Smoke. Each creature that enters the smoke or starts its turn there must succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma ability checks and saving throws until the start of its next turn. The kapre can only have 1 Smoke Breath effect at a time. If the kapre exhales a new Smoke Breath while a previous one still exists, the previous Smoke Breath immediately dissipates and ends. The kapre is immune to the effects of any kapre's Smoke Breath. Change Shape. The kapre magically transforms into a humanoid or beast creature that is Medium or Small, while retaining its game statistics (other than its size). This transformation ends if the kapre is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

