# Karakoncolos Lord

**description**: The karakoncolos is a malevolent troll-like creature that towers over 10 feet tall. It has shaggy brown or reddish fur covering its entire body, large elk-like antlers extending from the sides of its head, and vicious claw-like hands. Its mouth is filled with jagged teeth and tusks and its eyes gleam a sinister yellow in moonlight. It is often mistaken as a yeti at first glance but the karakoncolos is much more dangerous and cunning creature. Devious Trickster. The karakoncolos is a cunning predator that enjoys nothing more than hunting and toying with humanoids, especially the ones with above average intelligence. It is most active during winter nights when its victims are most vulnerable and alone. It uses its innate spell-like abilities to create convincing illusions that alters environments and terrain, causing travelers to be get lost. Often the karakoncolos will also draw its targets’ attentions by mimicking voices familiar to them, luring them into a trap. Sociopathic Killer. Once a karakoncolos has isolated its prey, it teases it with a game of riddles. The karakoncolos relishes in this practice, as it not only offers an opportunity for its narcissistic urges to test its intelligence against that of its victims, but to also satisfy its thirst for sadistic pleasure. If the intended targets fail to answer correctly or take too long to do so, they are met with brutal torture before being devoured by the karakoncolos. Those who manage to answer correctly might be given a slight reprieve as their success drives the karakoncolos mad and confused, leaving the monster distracted and vulnerable. Nocturnal Chionophile. Unlike most creatures that hibernate during winter, the karakoncolos hates sunlight and warm weather and therefore sleeps for most of the year in the deepest and coldest caves and only awakens during winter when the skies are gloomy and the air chilly. A Karakoncolos Lord's Lair A karakoncolos lord makes its lair in forests, ruins, or large cavern complexes found within very cold regions. A karakoncolos lord often keeps the company of trolls and evil fey. A karakoncolos lord encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 11 (7,200 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the karakoncolos can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the karakoncolos can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The karakoncolos casts bestow curse (spell save DC 16, no components required) on up to three creatures it can see within 60 feet of it, and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. The effect ends after 1 minute, until the karakoncolos uses this lair action again, or until the karakoncolos dies or is incapacitated. The karakoncolos chooses up to three points on the ground within its lair. The karakoncolos need not see each point. Grasping, animate ice tendrils emerge from the ground in a 10-foot radius burst centered on each point. Each creature that starts its turn in that area must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the ice tendrils for 1 minute, until the karakoncolos uses this lair action again, or until the karakoncolos dies or is incapacitated. While restrained, a creature takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage and 3 (1d6) cold damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 16 Strength check, escaping from the icy tendrils on a success. The ice tendrils can also be destroyed to end the effect. Each 5-foot-square section of ice tendrils has AC 10, 30 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage, and immunity to cold, poison, and psychic damage. The karakoncolos magically teleports, along with any creature or equipment it is carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Traits Charge. If the karakoncolos moves at least 10 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the karakoncolos fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Mimicry. The karakoncolos can mimic Beast sounds and Humanoid voices. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations only with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the karakoncolos has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The karakoncolos makes two Claw attacks and one Bite or Ram attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) piercing damage. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Spellcasting. The karakoncolos casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion 2/day each: fear, greater invisibility, hallucinatory terrain, major image 1/day each: mislead, project image Bonus Actions Pose Riddle. The karakoncolos poses a riddle to one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can hear and understand the karakoncolos, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma saving throw (target's choice). On a failed save, the target fails to answer the riddle correctly and the karakoncolos has advantage on attack rolls against the target for 1 minute or until the karakoncolos uses Pose Riddle against another target, is incapacitated, or dies. On a successful save, the target successfully answers the riddle and the karakoncolos must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the karakoncolos suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The effect lasts for 1 minute. The karakoncolos can make a saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The karakoncolos can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The karakoncolos regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The karakoncolos moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Claw. The karakoncolos makes a Claw attack. Spellcasting (Costs 2 Actions). The karakoncolos uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

