# Kargstaad's Giant

**description**: Giant In the Stolen Lands, hill giants are the most common of their kind. Small numbers of marsh giants can be found in the depths of Hooktongue Slough. Kargstaad’s Giant These brutal frost giants are not native to the Stolen Lands, and come to the region only once Nyrissa’s realm of Thousandbreaths begins to bloom throughout the kingdom. While these frost giants are natives to the First World, they can just as easily serve as a frost giant leader or powerful frost giant fighter elsewhere in the world. Traits Ice Walk. The giant can move across icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain composed of ice or snow doesn’t cost it extra movement. Giant’s Rage (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As a bonus action, the giant can enter a rage at the start of its turn. The rage lasts for 1 minute or until the giant is incapacitated. While raging, the giant gains the following benefits: The giant has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. When it makes a melee weapon attack, the giant gains a +4 bonus to the damage roll. The giant has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons. Regeneration. The giant regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn. If the giant takes fire damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of its next turn. The giant dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two attacks with its greataxe. Greataxe of Striking +2. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (3d12+9) slashing damage, or 32 (3d12+13) slashing damage while raging. The greataxe has 1d10 charges (minimum of 3) at the start of the encounter. When the giant hits with a melee attack, it can expend up to 3 of its charges. For each charge it expends, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) force damage. The greataxe otherwise functions as a staff of striking but is sized for a Huge giant. Wide Swing (Recharge 5–6). The giant swings its battle axe in a circle around itself, Every creature within 10 feet of it must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed saving throw, a creature takes 28 (3d12+9) slashing damage, or 32 (3d12+13) slashing damage if the giant is raging, and the target is knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. The giant can expend charges from its greataxe of striking to increase this damage and rage bonuses also apply. Chill Breath (Recharge 5–6) . The giant exhales a 15-foot cone of moisture that freezes. Each creature in the area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails the save is also grappled in ice (escape DC 16), and while grappled in this way, the creature is restrained and takes 24 (7d6) cold damage at the end of each of its turns. Thrown Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 29 (4d10+7) bludgeoning damage. Reactions Catch Rock. The giant can attempt to catch a rock thrown at a target that is within 10 feet of itself. The giant makes a Dexterity saving throw against the attack roll of the attacking creature. If it succeeds, the giant catches the rock and the intended target takes no damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: giant (frost giant)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

