# Keeper of Ravens

**description**: Before your eyes, the tall, spiraling column of closely packed ravens transforms into a pale-skinned woman, wearing a feathered cloak. Blessed by the shadow fey, keepers of ravens are humanoids who bond with the ravens native to the Shadow Realm. These gifted few learn how to see through the birds' eyes and even transform their bodies into feathered swarms. Traits Master Informants. Keepers of ravens are prized as spies and informants throughout the faerie courts. While most natives know to steer clear of a raven's watchful eye, visitors to the courts often have no idea their activities can be monitored this way. Solitary Pursuit. While these keepers are in demand as spies, they are unpopular in most social circles. Forming the bond required to pursue their magic means keepers spend vastly more time socializing with beasts than with other fey, which isolates them from the politics of court. Raven Tongue. The keeper can comprehend and verbally communicate with ravens and other corvids (beasts only). Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the keeper has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Unseelie Blessing. The keeper has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put them to sleep. Actions Multiattack. The keeper makes two Rapier attacks or two Hand Crossbow attacks. Rapier . Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage. Hand Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage. Change Shape (2/Day). The keeper can polymorph into a swarm of ravens or back into their true form. While in raven form, the keeper can't speak, their walking speed is 5 feet, and they have a flying speed of 50 feet. Their statistics, other than their size and speed, are unchanged. Anything they are wearing transforms with them, but nothing they are carrying does. They revert to their true form if they die. Raven Sight. The keeper of ravens can see through the eyes of any raven they are aware of within 10 miles. The keeper sees what the raven sees and hears what it hears until the start of the keeper's next turn. During this time, the keeper's own ears and eyes are deaf and blind. Bonus Actions Change Shape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The keeper magically transforms into a swarm of ravens or back into their true form. Their statistics, other than size, are the same in each form. Any equipment they are wearing or carrying in Humanoid form melds into the swarm of ravens form. They can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of their equipment. They revert to their Humanoid form if they die. Shadow Traveler (3/Day). While in shadows, dim light, or darkness, the keeper disappears into the darkness and reappears in an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet. A tendril of inky smoke appears at the origin and destination when it uses this trait.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Any Race)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

