# Keeper of Obsidian Legate

**description**: The Keeper of Obsidian Legate appears in Midnight - Legacy of Darkness. The Legates Legates have already been discussed extensively elsewhere, and you can find more information in the Order of Shadow section. There are many different legates with different abilities and skills, but one thing unites them; their devotion to Izrador and the dark powers they receive in return. Temple legate novices handle many mundane tasks in the Temples of Shadow, and are dispatched to perform myriad tasks by their masters. Keeper of Obsidian legates , however, are what many novices aspire to become; masters of the deathless night and powers within the Order. Their spellcasting abilities are horrifyingly potent, and they are dangerous foes. Human Servants of the Shadow Though the ranks of the Shadow’s armies are filled with legions of orcs, many humans also serve Izrador. Some of these are devoted followers, while others are press-ganged recruits, and many sign on to the Shadow simply for a meal or a chance to exercise a bit of power over their former neighbors. And of course, many of the legates who serve the Shadow are humans as well. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Traits Dark God’s Blessing. When a Keeper of Obsidian legate kills a living creature, they heal 14 (4d6) hit points. Spellcasting. The Keeper of Obsidian legate is a 14th level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). It also adds its Wisdom modifier (4) to the damage it deals when it casts a cantrip. The Keeper of Obsidian legate has the following spells prepared. Cantrips (at will): chill touch, light, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): bane, cure wounds, detect magic, inflict wounds 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, see invisibility, spiritual weapon 3rd level (3 slots): bind/banish astirax, bestow curse, spirit guardians 4th level (3 slots): blight, death ward, phantasmal killer 5th level (2 slots): cloudkill, contagion 6th level (1 slot): harm 7th level (1 slot): divine word Actions Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1 (1d4-1) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

