# Kellid Graveknight

**description**: Graveknight Graveknights are undead warriors granted unlife by a cursed suit of armor. Most graveknights appear skeletal in appearance, and while one might think that the heavy armor they favor would obscure their true nature, most graveknights revel in the fact that they are skeletal horrors. Many wear armor that appears to be rusted, badly damaged, or incomplete, yet these features do not diminish their armor’s ability to protect them in battle. Even the lowliest of graveknights pose extreme danger to adventurers and are almost never encountered as less-powerful incarnations than those presented below. Kellid Graveknight These graveknights have in their genesis an element of tragedy, for they came to be from a group of Pharasmin crusaders who gave up their lives and souls to carry on their fight against a cult of Yog-Sothoth worshippers known as the Thresholders, but you can use these graveknights for any encounter that requires a particularly powerful, frozen foe. Traits Graveknight’s Curse. A living creature that dons the kellid graveknight’s armor must succeed on a DC 18 Charisma saving throw or be afflicted with the graveknight’s curse. Cursed creatures cannot remove the kellid graveknight’s armor and must repeat the saving throw at the end of each long rest. On a second failed save, the creature has disadvantage on death saving throws. On a third failed save, the creature’s speed is halved. On a fourth failed save, the creature dies and transforms into the armor’s kellid graveknight. A successful saving throw lifts the curse, and the armor falls off. The creature is subject to the curse if it dons the armor again. Innate Spellcasting. The kellid graveknight’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 18). The kellid graveknight can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: phantom steed Rejuvenation. If a kellid graveknight is destroyed, its armor regrows its body in 1d10 days. If the body is destroyed before then, the process restarts. A kellid graveknight can only be permanently destroyed by obliterating its armor with a disintegrate spell, transporting it to the Positive Energy Plane, or by throwing it into the heart of a volcano. Ruinous Energy. A Kellid graveknight is infused with cold. It is immune to cold damage, and its attacks and devastating blast deal cold damage as indicated below. Sacrilegious Aura. When a creature within 30 feet of the kellid graveknight uses a spell or ability that magically restores hit points, the creature must make a DC 18 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the creature’s spell or ability fails and has no effect. Actions Multiattack. The kellid graveknight makes three maul attacks. Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6+5) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8) cold damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) cold damage. Devastating Blast (Recharge 6). The kellid graveknight unleashes a 30-foot cone of cold. Each creature in the area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 49 (14d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Parry. The kellid graveknight adds 4 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the kellid graveknight must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

