# Kervan Galenhad

**description**: Kervan Galenhad, now a powerful and ancient vampire, was once a renowned elven swordmaster. Having fought their way through tournament after tournament, they set themself on the road of adventure, seeking to overcome stronger and stronger foes. Eventually, many centuries ago, Kervan met their end fighting against a bloodlord. However, the bloodlord valued Kervan’s skill, and enslaved them as a vampire in undeath. Eventually, Kervan convinced the bloodlord to share its power with them, after which Kervan promptly betrayed the bloodlord, slew it, and claimed its territory as their own. Now, Kervan invites adventurers to come and attempt to slay them - seeking ever more infamy and glory in the thrill of tests of skill and endurance. Kervan dresses in a stylish coat with a long, swept-back tail that serves as studded leather armor. Their stiff, black hair is kept at a shorter length, and swept up out of their face to show a long, prominent scar through their left eye. Though paler than in life, their tanned skin has never faded. Never leaving their side is a magical rapier, Dancing Edge, which they have wielded for countless centuries, its platinum hilt encrusted with numerous valuable gems. Traits Sanguine Escape. When Kervan would die and is not in direct sunlight, submerged in running water, or slain by a silvered weapon, they transform into a cloud of red mist, gliding toward their resting place (a coffin in a well-guarded room) at 30 feet per round. After reaching their resting place, they regain their form at midnight of the next day, appearing with all of their hit points restored. If they do not reach their resting place before the next dawn, they are destroyed. Vampiric Toughness. When reduced to 0 hit points, Kervan does not die and is instead reduced to 1 hit point unless killed by a Death Blow. They have advantage on saving throws against Death Blows unless they are in direct sunlight, submerged in running water, or the Death Blow is made with a silvered weapon. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). When Kervan fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When Kervan gains an Injury, they can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until they finish a long rest. Actions Multiattack. Kervan makes three melee attacks, one of which can be a Turning Bite. Turning Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit (this attack is made with advantage against a creature grappled by Kervan), reach 5 feet, 1 target. Hit: 11 (2d4+6) piercing damage, plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage, and the target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take an additional 21 (6d6) necrotic damage. On a successful save the creature takes half damage. Kervan then regains hit points equal to half the total necrotic damage dealt by the bite. If a creature fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it gains a special Injury of Setback I severity, "Turning", which can be gained up to 3 times, increasing in level each time (Turning 1, Turning 2, Turning 3). When a creature has 3 levels of Turning, it dies, rising at midnight of the next day as a vampire in service to Kervan. The "Turning" Injury can only be healed with a successful Wisdom (Medicine) check made in conjunction with either a healing spell or potion, or a by spell that removes curses. A creature with 3 levels of the Turning Injury can’t be brought back to life unless the Turning Injury is removed first. Claw (while at least one hand is free). Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 +6) slashing damage, and Kervan can attempt to grapple the target. Kervan can only attempt to grapple a target in this way once per round. Dancing Edge. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8+6) piercing damage, plus an additional 9 (2d8) piercing damage for each other attack Kervan has hit the target with this turn. Damage dealt by this weapon is magical. Sap the Lifeblood (Recharge 5-6). Kervan chooses up to two Injured, living creatures within 30 feet, and draws blood from their wounds. Each target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (6d6) necrotic damage, and have their maximum hit points be reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken until they finish a long rest. Kervan then regains hit points equal to half the damage dealt. A successful saving throw halves the damage and negates the maximum hit point reduction. A creature whose maximum hit points are reduced to 0 dies. Dire Transformation (1/Rest). Kervan transforms into either a swarm of bats or a dire bat, retaining their hit points and mental ability scores. This transformation lasts for 1 hour, or until Kervan ends it as a bonus action. Kervan can use their Turning Bite attack in place of the new form’s attack. Bonus Actions Sanguine Pool (Recharge 5-6). Kervan melts into a 10-foot radius pool of blood, gaining the ability to enter other creatures' spaces, becoming unable to be targeted by attacks, and gaining resistance to all damage other than radiant. They also become immune to the grappled, restrained, stunned, and paralyzed conditions. Each creature Kervan chooses that starts its turn in the pool or enters it for the first time on its turn must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d8) necrotic damage. Kervan regains their form at the beginning of their next turn. While in this form, their movement speed is halved, they can’t fly, use the Supernatural Speed action, or make attacks. Legendary Actions Kervan can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Kervan regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Supernatural Speed. Kervan moves up to their movement speed without provoking opportunity attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead (shapechanger)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

