# Kethra Hornraven

**description**: Parents dead and town destroyed by a green Dragon named Ryzainiag, Kethra Hornraven found herself roaming the nearby woods, scrounging food by any means necessary until she was caught stealing from Kahsper Drylund, a Yartar noble. He was impressed by her abilities and brought her back to hone her skills with one goal in mind, turning her into a weapon for the Kraken Society. The next few years of her life were very different from how her life began. Day in and day out, she would train, learning the ways of stealth, espionage, and assassination until finally on her fifteenth birthday she was inducted into the Kraken Society and sent on her first mission. For three years, she did anything the society asked of her, but one day they asked for too much. She was to liaison with Ryzainiag to further the society's goals, but she couldn't. Instead, she attacked the Dragon, nearly dying in the process before escaping and marking herself as a traitor to the Kraken Society. Traits Criminal Contact. You have a reliable and trustworthy contact who acts as your liaison to a network of other criminals. You know how to get messages to and from your contact, even over great distances; specifically, you know the local messengers, corrupt caravan masters, and seedy sailors who can deliver messages for you. Cunning Intuition. When you make a Charisma (Performance) or Dexterity (Stealth) check, you can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the ability check. Integrated Protection. Your body has built-in defensive layers, which can be enhanced with armor. You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class. You can don only armor with which you have proficiency. To don armor, you must incorporate it into your body over the course of 1 hour, during which you must remain in contact with the armor. To doff armor, you must spend 1 hour removing it. You can rest while donning or doffing armor in this way. While you live, your armor can't be removed from your body against your will. Sentry's Rest. When you take a long rest, you must spend at least six hours in an inactive, motionless state, rather than sleeping. In this state, you appear inert, but it doesn't render you unconscious, and you can see and hear as normal. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). You can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack if you have advantage on the attack roll. The attack must use a finesse or a ranged weapon. You don't need advantage on the attack roll if another enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, the enemy isn't Incapacitated, and you don't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Attack. You can attack when you take this action, using the following: Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., or range 20/60 feet., one target. Hit: 1d4 + 3 piercing damage. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8 + 3 piercing damage. Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 80/320 feet, one target. Hit: 1d6 + 3 piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human, Warforged)
- Expansion: 24690

**publisher**: Gnome Made Games

**book**: An Elf and an Orc Had A Little Baby

