# Keyleth, Voice of the Tempest

**description**: Many painters across Tal’Dorei have depicted the stoic, melancholy visage of Keyleth, Voice of the Tempest, as she stands at the edge of a lofty cliff of Zephrah, gazing into the rosy sunset beside a pink-blossomed tree. In this image, people see a leader who has lost much—and sacrificed even more—for her people, for her world, and for the family she found on her journeys. Hidden Heart. Though Keyleth often looks back on the life she left behind, she does not dwell on the past. She remembers the joy and pain in equal measure, keeping her eyes on the horizon to seek the next sunrise, not the sunset. In public, she is a consummate leader, speaking tactfully, with calculated words and poise. Yet when she’s with her friends from the old days, particularly Pike, Percival, and Vex’ahlia, her practiced public face falls away, revealing the same eager, enthusiastic, idealistic Keyleth that she’s always been—just with a few more sorrows weighing upon her heart. She keeps a humble home in Whitestone near Grey Hunt Manor, close to a hidden forest trail she can walk down in peace, conjuring snowdrops as she goes. After the Epilogue. Keyleth buried herself in her duties as Voice of the Tempest after the loss of Vax’ildan and the Whispered One’s defeat. She did everything she could to ally the Air Ashari with the rest of Tal’Dorei, and to create a world better prepared to unite against threats like the Whispered One and the Chroma Conclave. Her heroic reputation, her political will, and her mighty elemental magic gained her many allies, but the entrenched elite of Tal'Dorei still see her as a potential threat to their stability. She rarely adventures anymore, preferring to hire others to tackle problems she sees arising across Tal’Dorei. But if the world is ever in need of an archdruid, she will answer the call. Vox Machina Heroes. Scoundrels. Legends. Dumbasses. The legacy of the adventuring party Vox Machina is a complicated one. Over the course of their adventures, they’ve selflessly saved the lives of thousands of people in Tal’Dorei, Wildemount, Issylra, and beyond. Of course, there are also countless tales of individuals they’ve bullied, threatened, insulted, or otherwise needlessly antagonized throughout those same adventures. These legendary figures grew from a band of dime-a-dozen sellswords in the swamp burgh of Stilben to gods-blessed warriors whose actions might have saved all of Exandria from a future of undead tyranny. The deeds of Vox Machina are sung by bards across Tal’Dorei, often exaggerating those already belief-defying tales of gods and monsters and magic. But though their legend has grown wild and unruly, the members of Vox Machina are still people. More than twenty years have passed since their last great campaign. Most of them are still alive, and the lives of these heroes have changed—in big ways and in smaller, more subtle ones. Those among them who age have softer bodies and lines on their faces. Those among them who don’t age still show the weight of the world upon their shoulders. By and large, the members of Vox Machina have set aside weapons, armor, and spells in favor of more subtle ways of helping others. Some lead the lands they were born to lead. Others have been elected to the Tal’Dorei Council, shaping the fate of the continent’s people with quiet wisdom rather than blades and battle cries. Still, each member of this legendary band of adventurers would take up arms again in an instant if it meant protecting those they care for the most. And the Vestiges of Divergence, whose power they unlocked in the battles against the Cinder King and the Whispered One, are still within their grasp. The following stat blocks are here for GMs to use if their players encounter a member of Vox Machina—hopefully as an ally or a "quest giver," for woe betide anyone who encounters these legendary heroes as a foe. These statistics don’t represent the full extent of the characters’ abilities as 20th-level adventurers, but have been streamlined to make them easier for the Game Master to run. Traits Fey Ancestry . Keyleth has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put her to sleep. Focused. Keyleth has advantage on Constitution saving throws made to maintain concentration on spells. Special Equipment. Keyleth wears a circlet of wisdom (which increases her Wisdom score by 2), +2 leather armor , and a ring of protection with a +2 bonus. She wields the Spire of Conflux . Spellcasting. Keyleth is a 20th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 22, +14 to hit with spell attacks). She has the following druid spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, guidance, mending 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, faerie fire, fog cloud, healing word, thunderwave 2nd level (3 slots): alter self (at will), flaming sphere, gust of wind, pass without trace 3rd level (3 slots): call lightning, wind wall 4th level (3 slots): blight, control water, grasping vine, polymorph, stone shape 5th level (3 slots): conjure elemental, greater restoration, scrying, wall of stone 6th level (2 slots): heroes’ feast, move earth, transport via plants 7th level (2 slots): fire storm, plane shift 8th level (1 slot): control weather 9th level (1 slot): foresight, shapechange Actions Shapechange. Keyleth casts shapechange to transform into a planetar, an adult bronze dragon, or another creature of CR 20 or lower that is not a construct or undead. Meteor (Earth Elemental Form Only). When Keyleth falls at least 20 feet, she lands with meteoric force. Each creature within 20 feet of her must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet Keyleth fell. Keyleth still takes falling damage while in earth elemental form. Chain Lightning. Keyleth casts chain lightning (spell save DC 22) from the Spire of Conflux at a creature she can see within 150 feet of her. Bonus Actions Wild Shape. Keyleth magically polymorphs into a beast or elemental of CR 6 or lower. Her game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the new form, but she retains her alignment, personality, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. She also retains all of her skill and saving throw proficiencies, in addition to gaining those of the new form. She assumes the new form’s hit points and Hit Dice and returns to the number of hit points she had when she reverts to her normal form. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by her new form (her choice). She reverts to her humanoid form as a bonus action, or when she falls unconscious. Her attacks in Wild Shape form are magical, and she can cast spells while transformed. Healing Word (4th Level). Keyleth casts healing word , restoring 16 (4d4 + 6) hit points to herself or another creature she can see within 60 feet of her.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (half-elf)
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

