# Kingfissure Worm Companion (PB 4)

**description**: “That’s just four of us against the beast,” remarked the youth bearing a sword twice his size. “And Jadis is the only one of us who’s a proper worm hunter.” “There are no kingfissure worm hunters,” snapped Jadis Mara, “only prey who refused to be swallowed.” Named for their infamous hunting technique, kingfissure worms terraform the earth as they move, building tunnels and crevasses to accommodate their enormous form. They then lie in wait deep underground. When they sense the vibrations of their prey above, they shoot their serpentine tongues through the crevasses, dragging prey from the surface into the worm’s cavernous maw. Seasoned adventurers know to be wary when traveling past even the smallest crack in the earth. Intestine Inventory. The worm eats indiscriminately, swallowing creatures, structures, and precious gems alike. The wealth inside a kingfissure worm would put any dragon’s hoard to shame, though the worm cares nothing for treasure and knows nothing of the spoils lodged in their labyrinthine intestines. Few people have seen the inside of a kingfissure worm and lived, but those who do usually escape with a precious souvenir or two. Home Renovators. Most worms build a den of tunnels and fissures, remaining in it for as long as the pickings on the surface are good and they aren’t disturbed. When a kingfissure worm seeks a new home, they target areas with abundant food—occasionally leading to villagers waking up to find their surrounding lands have been terraformed overnight. Residents of such lands generally have two choices: pack up and leave, or prepare for battle. If a worm is somehow defeated, all manner of creatures and communities try to lay claim to the worm’s underground structures. These empty dens make wonderful war bunkers, isolated workshops, and even highly defensible villages. Unstoppable Force. The kingfissure worm is a species determined to outrun, outlast, and out-eat every other living creature. Though the monster might be slowed by a display of great power, only death stops them. Some scholars theorize that when a kingfissure worm dies, their tongues detach and grow into full-fledged worms. Unlikely Symbiosis. Some nomadic communities or adventurers travel dangerous lands with the help of an unusual guardian—a juvenile kingfissure worm. So long as the people provide a steady supply of food for the worm, the kingfissure follows dutifully. And if the people attract monsters from above, the worm defends their companions while enjoying an extra meal. Actions Signature Attack (Tongue Lash). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB acid damage. 1 st Level: Distracting Attack ( 2 Ferocity). The worm makes a signature attack. On a hit, the attack deals its normal effects, and the next attack roll made against the target before the start of the worm’s next turn has advantage. 3 rd Level: Tongue Grab ( 5 Ferocity). The worm makes a signature attack. On a hit, the target is also grappled (escape DC 10 plus PB). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the worm can’t make a signature attack against another target. 5 th Level: Swallow ( 8 Ferocity). The worm attempts to swallow a Medium or smaller creature within 5 feet of them. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes PBd6 bludgeoning damage and is swallowed. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t swallowed. The worm can have only one target swallowed at a time. A swallowed target is blinded and restrained, they have total cover against attacks and other effects outside the worm, and they take PBd6 acid damage at the start of each of the worm’s turns. Whenever the worm takes damage, they must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or regurgitate the swallowed creature, who falls prone in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the worm. The DC for this saving throw equals 10 or half the triggering damage, whichever is higher. If the worm is incapacitated or dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by the worm and can escape from the corpse using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone. Bonus Actions Item Storage. The worm can swallow an object without harming it by storing the object in a second stomach. They can use this bonus action again to regurgitate a specific stored object without disturbing any other objects in their second stomach. A regurgitated object lands in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the worm. The worm’s second stomach can hold up to PB × 10 pounds of objects, not exceeding a volume of 10 cubic feet.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

