# Kingfissure Worm

**description**: Traits Multiple Tongues. The worm has three tongues, each of which can be targeted with attacks (AC 20, immunity to psychic damage) while that tongue is grappling a creature. When a tongue takes 35 damage or more in a single turn, that tongue is destroyed, releasing any target it was grappling. The worm can’t use a destroyed tongue with their Multiattack or Tongue Grab action until they finish a long rest. Damaging or destroying a tongue deals no damage to the worm. Slowed, Not Stopped ( 3 /Day). When the worm fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. When they do, their speed and the reach of their Tongue Grab attack are each reduced by a cumulative 10 feet until they finish a long rest. The worm’s speed and reach can’t be reduced below 5 feet in this way. Tunneler. The worm can burrow through solid rock at half their burrowing speed and leaves a 10-foot-diameter tunnel in their wake. Actions Multiattack. The worm can make a number of Tongue Grab attacks equal to the number of tongues they currently have (see Multiple Tongues). The worm can replace any number of those attacks with a use of Swallow. Tongue Grab. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) acid damage, and the creature is grappled (escape DC 19). Until this grapple ends, the worm can’t use this tongue against another target. Maw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (3d8 + 9) piercing damage. If the target is Huge or smaller, they must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be swallowed (as if by the worm’s Swallow action). Swallow. The worm pulls a Huge or smaller grappled creature into their maw and swallows them. A swallowed creature is no longer grappled, but they are blinded and restrained, have total cover against attacks and other effects outside the worm, and take 28 (8d6) acid damage at the start of each of the worm’s turns. If the worm takes 30 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside them, the worm must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution check at the end of that turn or regurg­itate all swallowed creatures, each of whom fall prone in an un­occupied space within 10 feet of the worm. If the worm dies, a swallowed creature can escape from the corpse by using 20 feet of movement, exiting prone. Bonus Actions Tongue Sweep. The worm violently swings a creature they have grappled. The grappled creature takes 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage, and each enemy within 10 feet of the grappled creature must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage. Reactions Tongue Recall. When one of the worm’s tongues takes damage that doesn’t immediately destroy it, the worm can release any target that tongue is grappling and recall the tongue back inside the worm’s body. That tongue can’t be targeted until the worm uses it to grapple a creature again. Villain Actions The worm has three villain actions. They can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. They can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Open the Earth. The worm writhes, sending tremors through the ground and opening a 20-foot-wide, 100-foot-long, 40-foot-deep fissure in the ground, originating from the worm. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature falls into the fissure, taking 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall and landing prone. On a successful save, a creature flees to the closest unoccupied space outside the fissure’s area. Action 2 : Earth Breach. The worm burrows up to half their speed and then bursts through the surface, breaching the ground in a 10-foot-radius circle. Huge and smaller creatures within that area must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be swallowed (as if by the worm’s Swallow action). Action 3 : Better Out Than In. The worm projectile vomits the contents of their stomach in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage plus 21 (6d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Additionally, creatures who were swallowed by the worm are regurgitated, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage and landing prone in an unoccupied space of the worm’s choice within that area.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

