# Klaven (template)

**description**: Klaven are an artificially created species, incrementally modified to serve the jagladine—and by extension, the Ultari Hegemony—as foot soldiers and shocktroops. Their jagdaline masters perfected this process to transform natives of conquered worlds into an occupying force. Converted Soldiers. The conversion protocol begins with a creature’s infection, typically by a virus referred to as an assimilation strain, which introduces nanites to remap a victim’s brain patterns and overall psychology, predisposing them towards evil. The second stage requires a fitted mindslave harness, which conditions victims towards complete obedience, reception of telepathic commands, and eventual networking with others of its kind. Those who survive these experiences become candidates for full conversion into klaven, a process which involves submersion into vats of organic mutagens to amplify the victim's strength, alter the visual spectrum of its eyes, and grow natural claws. Klaven typically have greenish skin and milky-white eyes, with smooth hairless skin calcified into a hard, armored exoskeleton overlaying their former physiology. Born Anew. The final result of klaven transmogrification draws horror-worthy comparisons to an undead monstrosity, but all klaven are still living soldiers. Those familiar with klaven biology realize their appearance often signals an assimilation plague has already run its course, but klaven lack all memory of their former lives, devoid of compassion and slaying others without hesitation. Only officers possess the ability to speak, with all others communicating purely through an exchange of nanites. Their jagdaline masters also have the technological means to tap into their neural network, monitoring the condition of their soldiers while remotely issuing commands. It is believed the Hegemony’s weaponeers also occasionally download their soldiers’ memories, analyzing their thoughts and reactions and reprogramming soldiers that might be developing irregular thoughts. Assimilated Beasts. Shaped by a modification of lupine species with an assimilation strain, klaven warbeasts are the most common non-humanoid klaven employed by the Hegemony. As a result of their transformation, the afflicted wolf is granted a rudimentary intelligence, thereby allowing communication with other klaven and the ability to understand (but not speak) the languages of the Hegemony. This newfound intellect means little to a warbeast, whose entire existence is determined by its jagladine superiors. Adorned with a thick upper carapace with the consistency of layered scales, a typical klaven warbeast stands 3 feet tall and weighs 160 pounds Warbeast Variations. A klaven warhound is the result of applying the klaven template to a wolf. Larger, mountable creatures—known as klaven warsteeds—are created when the klaven template is applied to a dire wolf. Warsteeds are the second most common variety of animal-based klaven offspring, often used by klaven commanders as personal mounts in the field. Other animal breeds infected with the assimilation strain undergo conversion with varying degrees of success. Jagdaline scientists maintain hidden outposts on several unclaimed worlds, vying to successfully apply the strain on apex predators, in hopes of creating a revolutionary weapon. The very nature of their mission requires the jagdaline to occupy locations inhabited by the most powerful of creatures, ranging from dinosaurs to extinct megafauna. Thankfully for the rest of the multiverse, these experiments have met with limited success, and the Hegemony employs only a handful of such death-dealing monstrosities. KLAVEN TEMPLATE A beast or humanoid infected with a jagdaline assimilation strain and fitted with a mindslave harness can become a klaven. An intact dead creature that meets these prerequisites can be revived as a klaven within 48 hours of their death. If similar actions are performed on a living creature, they may be converted into a klaven within 8 hours. When a creature becomes a klaven, it retains all its statistics except as noted below. Type. The klaven retains its own creature type but gains the (klaven) tag in addition to any other tags it normally has. Alignment. A humanoid klaven’s alignment becomes lawful evil. In rare cases, some creatures react poorly to the effects of the strain and instead become chaotic evil. Armor Class. The klaven’s natural armor grants it an armor class of 13 + Dexterity modifier. Condition Immunity. The klaven can’t be frightened. Damage Resistance. The klaven has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons. Senses. The klaven gains darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Languages. Newly converted klaven can’t speak, but eventually regain the ability. Some klaven adapt to the changes very quickly, and such klaven often vault into leadership positions among their kind. Ability Score Increase (Humanoid klaven only). The klaven’s Strength score increases by 2. Altered Mind. A humanoid klaven’s Intelligence score is reduced by 2. A beast klaven’s Intelligence score becomes 3. Bioweapons (Beast klaven only). A beast klaven deals an additional die of damage with its natural attacks. One of the beast klaven’s natural attacks (typically a bite) delivers poison on a successful hit. A target hit by the bite must make a Constitution saving throw. The poison deals 2d6 (7) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the poison damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed while poisoned in this way. Converted Host. Upon conversion, there is nothing left of the base creature which is suitable for the restoration of their original selves. Raise dead and similar effects restore the klaven to life. True resurrection, wish , and miracle can restore the base creature to its original self. Klaven created from the dead are healed of any prior damage, poisons or diseases, including a jagdaline assimilation virus (as described in the Alien Codex ). Living klaven maintain any previous damage taken, except that of the assimilation virus, due to their rushed inception. Malign Influence. The klaven has disadvantage on saving throws against being charmed. Additionally, the klaven suffers a -5 penalty to saving throws against being charmed by a jagladine. Malign Influence likewise applies to effects that fail against creatures immune to being charmed (such as suggestion ). Nanite Exchange. The klaven has a continuous awareness of the location and condition of other klaven within 60 feet. The range of this ability increases to 100 feet for klaven of at least 5 Hit Dice, and one mile for klaven of 10 Hit Dice or more. Klaven may also exchange memories which contain sensory information but must come into physical contact with one another. The exchange of memories requires an action and only consists of perceptions and firsthand experiences. Klaven cannot exchange proficiencies, special abilities, or other individual qualities. Nanite Tactics. The klaven has advantage on melee attack rolls against a creature if at least one other klaven ally is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated. Relentless. The klaven has advantage on saving throws against exhaustion and can go 6 + twice its Constitution modifier in days without food before suffering effects of starvation. Plagueborn. The klaven has advantage on saving throws against disease and poison. Skill Proficiency (Intimidation and Stealth). The klaven gains proficiency with the Intimidation and Stealth skills. New Action: Claws (humanoid klaven without claw attacks only). The klaven conversion protocol alters the base creature’s physiology to provide them with a reserve natural weapon under any conditions. The klaven can extend or withdraw sharp, extremely dense bone spurs from the back of its hands. It gains a claw attack that deals 1d6 slashing damage. It can take the Multiattack action to make two claw attacks, or one claw attack and one attack with a melee weapon in the other hand. New Reaction: Energy Modulation (1+/day). When it takes necrotic or radiant damage the klaven can shift its internal energy balance to absorb the damage. Until the start of its next turn, the klaven heals a number of hit points equal to the chosen type of damage it would have otherwise taken. The ability can be used twice per day by a klaven with 5 or more Hit Dice, and three times per day at 10 Hit Dice or more. Rarely, a klaven is created with the ability to absorb different energy types. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:"Body Copy Indent"; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyIndent, li.BodyCopyIndent, div.BodyCopyIndent {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent Char"; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.H1Body, li.H1Body, div.H1Body {mso-style-name:"H1 Body"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-next:"Body Copy"; margin-top:12.0pt; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:none; page-break-after:avoid; mso-hyphenate:none; tab-stops:9.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; text-transform:uppercase; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold;}p.StatBlock1, li.StatBlock1, div.StatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1 Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.StatBlock1Char {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1 Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.BodyCopyIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Expansion: 32483

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

