# Knight of Winter Legate

**description**: The Knight of Winter Legate appears in Midnight - Legacy of Darkness. The Legates Legates have already been discussed extensively elsewhere, and you can find more information in the Order of Shadow section. There are many different legates with different abilities and skills, but one thing unites them; their devotion to Izrador and the dark powers they receive in return. Knights of Winter legates are one example of the many orders of soldier legates in the Shadow’s armies. They are skilled warriors and grim bodyguards who augment their combat prowess with their god’s favor. Human Servants of the Shadow Though the ranks of the Shadow’s armies are filled with legions of orcs, many humans also serve Izrador. Some of these are devoted followers, while others are press-ganged recruits, and many sign on to the Shadow simply for a meal or a chance to exercise a bit of power over their former neighbors. And of course, many of the legates who serve the Shadow are humans as well. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Traits Dire Bodyguard. When a hostile creature within 5 feet of the Knight of Winter legate attacks a friendly target other than the Knight of Winter legate, the attack has disadvantage. Ferocious Blow (recharge 5-6). When the Knight of Winter legate hits with a melee attack, it can choose to have its attack inflict an additional 7 (2d6) thunder damage. If the target is a creature of Medium size or smaller, it is also moved directly backwards 10 feet and knocked prone. Spellcasting. The Knight of Winter legate is a 6th level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spells attacks). The Knight of Winter legate has the following spells prepared. Cantrips (at will): light, resistance, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): bane, command, cure wounds, hellish rebuke 2nd level (3 slots): darkvision, enhance ability, magic weapon 3rd level (3 slots): haste, protection from energy, vampiric touch Actions Multiattack. The Knight of Winter makes two melee attacks. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage Reactions Dire Bodyguard. When a hostile creature within 5 feet of the Knight of Winter legate attacks a friendly target other than the Knight of Winter legate, the Knight of Winter legate can immediately make a melee weapon attack against the attacking creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

