# Kobold, Leviathan Hunter

**description**: The three kobolds bear scars, surly expressions, and, in one case, a clockwork arm, all attesting to a hard life. Each kobold bristles with weapons: a mystical sword, a dripping harpoon, and a radiant crossbow. Their eyes scan the area, catching every detail. Monster hunters crave adventure and the thrill of the hunt. Each monster hunter specializes in slaying particular types of creatures. Some seek to rid the world of the danger the creatures present, while others seek the glory and renown slaying such creatures brings. Monster hunter kobolds don't have an official organization, but they recognize each other almost instantly, boisterously swapping stories over a rat kabob and ale. On occasion, monster hunters work together to take down a truly terrifying foe, sharing in the spoils and glory. Life with the Undead. Ghost hunters seek to eradicate undead from the world, making the world safer for the living. Many make a living from it, while others are driven by a personal grudge. Either way, ghost hunters take their business seriously and do not respond well to those that interfere with their hunting. Each ghost hunter carries a religious relic, hidden behind its eyepatch, which it uses to deliver a holy strike to its enemies. These hunters typically carry other equipment useful in the fight against the undead, such as wooden stakes and holy water. Life on the Sea. Leviathan hunters enjoy wrestling and defeating great sea creatures—the bigger the better. These bulky kobolds spend most of their lives on the sea, always searching for that next big haul. The right target—a sea dragon, an aboleth, a sahuagin outpost—can keep them and their companions living comfortably for many months. While these hunters frequently sign on with any ship looking for extra muscle, they typically end up captaining their own ship, giving them the freedom to chase down the monsters that others flee. Life in the Planes. Planes hunters delight in exploring every nook of the multiverse. They spend most of their lives hopping from plane to plane, always with a burning curiosity for what lies over the next horizon. They collect secrets and magical oddities, but each new treasure simply fuels their continued exploits, rarely staying in one place for long. For the right price, they can be convinced to share their knowledge or to act as guides for other planar travelers. Planes hunters rely on their reputation, and they are loathe to renege on any deals made in good faith. Expert Wrestler. The leviathan hunter can grapple creatures that are two sizes larger than itself and can move at its full speed when dragging a creature it has grappled. If the hunter grapples a Medium or smaller creature, the target has disadvantage on its escape attempts. In addition, the hunter has advantage on ability checks and saving throws made to escape a grapple or end the restrained condition. Hardy Defense. While the leviathan hunter is wearing no armor and wielding no shield, its AC includes its Constitution modifier. Hold Breath. The hunter can hold its breath for 30 minutes. Leviathan Hunter. The leviathan hunter has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to find and track Large or larger creatures with a swimming speed. Marine Weapons. The leviathan hunter's weapon attacks are magical. When the hunter hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d8 cold damage or poison damage (included in the attack), the hunter's choice. Pack Tactics. The leviathan hunter has advantage on an attack roll against a target if at least one of the hunter's allies is within 5 feet of the target and the ally isn't incapacitated. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the leviathan hunter has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The leviathan hunter makes three Slam attacks, or it makes one Harpoon attack and two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) cold damage or poison damage (the hunter's choice), and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). The hunter can grapple only one target at a time. Harpoon. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) cold damage or poison damage (the hunter's choice), and the harpoon sticks in the target. While the harpoon is stuck, the target takes 7 (2d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns, the hunter can't make Harpoon attacks against other targets, and the target and hunter can't move further than 60 feet away from each other. A creature, including the target, can take its action to detach the harpoon by succeeding on a DC 17 Strength check. Alternatively, the cord connecting the leviathan hunter to the harpoon can be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; hp 25; immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage), dislodging the harpoon into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the target and preventing the leviathan hunter from using Recall Harpoon. Crush. One creature grappled by the hunter must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw, taking 33 (8d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Recall Harpoon. The leviathan hunter pulls on the cord connected to its harpoon, returning the harpoon to its empty hand. If the harpoon is stuck in a creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 20 feet toward the hunter. Reactions Grappled Redirect. If the leviathan hunter is the target of an attack it can see while grappling a creature, it can hold the grappled creature in the way, and the grappled creature becomes the target of the attack instead.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

