# Kobold, Planes Hunter

**description**: The three kobolds bear scars, surly expressions, and, in one case, a clockwork arm, all attesting to a hard life. Each kobold bristles with weapons: a mystical sword, a dripping harpoon, and a radiant crossbow. Their eyes scan the area, catching every detail. Monster hunters crave adventure and the thrill of the hunt. Each monster hunter specializes in slaying particular types of creatures. Some seek to rid the world of the danger the creatures present, while others seek the glory and renown slaying such creatures brings. Monster hunter kobolds don't have an official organization, but they recognize each other almost instantly, boisterously swapping stories over a rat kabob and ale. On occasion, monster hunters work together to take down a truly terrifying foe, sharing in the spoils and glory. Life with the Undead. Ghost hunters seek to eradicate undead from the world, making the world safer for the living. Many make a living from it, while others are driven by a personal grudge. Either way, ghost hunters take their business seriously and do not respond well to those that interfere with their hunting. Each ghost hunter carries a religious relic, hidden behind its eyepatch, which it uses to deliver a holy strike to its enemies. These hunters typically carry other equipment useful in the fight against the undead, such as wooden stakes and holy water. Life on the Sea. Leviathan hunters enjoy wrestling and defeating great sea creatures—the bigger the better. These bulky kobolds spend most of their lives on the sea, always searching for that next big haul. The right target—a sea dragon, an aboleth, a sahuagin outpost—can keep them and their companions living comfortably for many months. While these hunters frequently sign on with any ship looking for extra muscle, they typically end up captaining their own ship, giving them the freedom to chase down the monsters that others flee. Life in the Planes. Planes hunters delight in exploring every nook of the multiverse. They spend most of their lives hopping from plane to plane, always with a burning curiosity for what lies over the next horizon. They collect secrets and magical oddities, but each new treasure simply fuels their continued exploits, rarely staying in one place for long. For the right price, they can be convinced to share their knowledge or to act as guides for other planar travelers. Planes hunters rely on their reputation, and they are loathe to renege on any deals made in good faith. Pack Tactics. The planes hunter has advantage on attack rolls against a target if at least one of the hunter's allies is within 5 feet of the target and the ally isn't incapacitated. Planar Attunement. At the start of each of its turns, the planes hunter chooses one of the following damage types: acid, cold, fire, lightning, necrotic, radiant, or thunder. It has resistance to the chosen damage type until the start of its next turn. Planar Weapons. The planes hunter's weapon attacks are magical. When it hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 3d8 damage of the type chosen with Planar Attunement (included in the attack). Planes Hunter. The planes hunter has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to find and track Celestials, Fiends, and Elementals. Snaring Blade. If the planes hunter scores a critical hit against a creature, that creature can't use any method of extradimensional movement, including teleportation or travel to a different plane of existence, for 1 minute. The creature can make a DC 16 Charisma saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the planes hunter has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The planes hunter makes three Longsword attacks. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage, or 9 (1d10 + 4) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 13 (3d8) acid, cold, fire, lightning, necrotic, radiant, or thunder damage (as determined by Planar Attunement). Warping Whirlwind (Recharge 5-6). The planes hunter bends reality around it, slicing nearby creatures with sword strikes from across the planes. Each creature within 10 feet of the planes hunter must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) slashing damage and 18 (4d8) acid, cold, fire, lightning, necrotic, radiant, or thunder damage (as determined by Planar Attunement) on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Planar Traveler (1/Day). The planes hunter can transport itself to a different plane of existence. This works like the plane shift spell, except the hunter can only affect itself and can't use this action to banish an unwilling creature to another plane. Bonus Actions Planar Step. The planes hunter teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Glowing swirls of elemental energy appear at the origin and destination when it uses this bonus action. Reactions Parry. The planes hunter adds 4 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the hunter must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

