# Kobold Trapmaster of Gaknulak

**description**: The devious trapmaster is a kobold specialist favored by Gaknulak, the kobold deity of traps, trickery, and protection. The trapmaster is a master thief that specializes in crafting booby traps. It is so skilled in setting traps that it can do so effortlessly, even during combat. It always carries grenades that it only uses if it can hit at least two targets with it. Traits Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the kobold has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Pack Tactics. The kobold has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the kobold's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The kobold deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the kobold that isn't incapacitated and the kobold doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage. Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage. Hurl Grenade (3/Day). The kobold hurls a grenade at a point within 30 feet of it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The kobold casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks): At will: fire bolt (2d10), mending 1/day each: arcane lock, flaming sphere, grease, snare, web Set Trap (5/Day). The kobold can discretely place a mechanical trap of its choice (see below) on a surface (such as a section of floor, a wall, a staircase, or a table) or within an object that can be closed to conceal the trap (such as a chest, door, or window) within 5 feet of it. If it is a surface, the trap can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. The trap is hidden, requiring a DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) to find it or a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check to spot it. For traps placed on a surface, the trap is triggered when a surface within the area is touched or stepped on, removing another object covering it, or manipulating an object that holds it. For traps within an object, the trap is triggered when the object is opened or manipulated. When the kobold lays a trap, it chooses from one of the following options below for its effect. Once triggered, each creature within 10 feet of the trap is targeted by its effect, unless specified otherwise. 1. Bear Trap. This trap can only be placed on a ground surface and only the creature that triggered it as affected. The target must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (4d4) piercing damage and is restrained. The creature can make a DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check to escape the trap. If the check fails, the target takes 2 (1d4) piercing damage. Until the creature regains all of its hit points, its walking speed is reduced by half. 2. Flare Blast. Each target must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. 3. Explosive Blast. Each target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) fire damage and 7 (2d6) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. 4. Poison Gas. Each target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. 5. Stink Cloud. The trap creates a 15-foot radius sphere of green, nauseating gas centered on the trap which lasts for 1 minute. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. Each target within the cloud must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the creature spends its action that turn retching and reeling. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. A moderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses the cloud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at least 20 miles per hour) disperses it after I round. Bonus Actions Cunning Action . The kobold can takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Legendary Actions The kobold can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The kobold regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The kobold moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Cast Magical Trap. The kobold casts grease , snare , or web . Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The kobold makes a melee or ranged attack. Set Trap (Costs 2 Actions). The kobold uses Set Trap, if available.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

