# Kobold Signifier

**description**: Kobold communities, called legions, are found in every biome and across the timescape. Gravitating toward powerful allies and defensible locations, kobolds are equally common in walled cities, secluded temples, subterranean tunnel-mazes, and dragon lairs. Most legions strive to be good neighbors or to go entirely unnoticed, but when a community falls under the sway of a malevolent wyrm or power-hungry centurion, they pose a significant threat. Defensive Masters. In a world filled with bigger, hungrier creatures, kobolds survived by becoming experts in collective defense. Kobold shield tactics are legendary; every warrior carries a shield into battle, and soldiers defend each other in tightly choreographed formations. More than a tool, a kobold’s shield is a symbol of their commitment to defending their legion, and they decorate these treasured possessions with battle trophies and illustrations of great deeds. Kobold legionaries may join worthy adventurers as retainers, lending their defensive prowess to their new allies as they ko-boldly go where no kobold has gone before. Unconventional Tactics. Relentless innovators, kobolds can easily outsmart anyone who doesn’t take them seriously. Their foes haven’t experienced a true kobold battle until they survive exploding javelins or flaming nets. Kobold homes are protected with deadly hazards and ambush points. In open warfare, legions deploy mechanical dragons and flaming spike pit traps. Tiny Dragons. Most kobolds believe their ancestors were created by powerful dragons—and with sharp, angular features and prominent dorsal crests, they certainly look the part! Newborn kobolds have brilliant chromatic, metallic, or crystalline scales; as kobolds age, their scales dim and mottle. Owing to a deep magical connection, a legion that lives under the patronage of a dragon adopts the color of their patron’s scales over several generations. Traits Shield? Shield! The signifer gains a +1 bonus to AC while within 5 feet of at least one ally who also has this trait, is wielding a shield, and isn’t incapacitated or prone. To benefit from this trait, the signifer must be wielding a shield. Standard Bearer. Each kobold unit can have one or more signifers, whose weapon is their unit’s battle standard. If a signifer drops their signum, they use the kobold tiro stat block instead. If an allied kobold tiro uses an action to pick up a signum not carried by another creature, that tiro uses the kobold signifer stat block instead. When a signifer or tiro’s stat block changes in this way, any conditions or effects currently affecting them remain active, and their hit points and hit point maximum remain the same. A signum that isn’t being held by a creature can be damaged; it has AC 15, 5 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Actions Multiattack. The signifer makes two Signum attacks. Signum. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage. Shield Wall Formation. The signifer chooses up to four kobolds within 60 feet of them who can hear them. Each kobold can use their reaction to move up to their speed, and each kobold who does so must end this movement within 5 feet of an ally. Bonus Actions Glory to the Legion ( 1 /Day). The signifer and each ally within 30 feet of them who can hear them regains 5 (2d4) hit points. Upholding High Standards No legion would let their glorious standard lie trampled beneath the boots of their enemies. When a signifer dies, the nearest tiro races to the body to pick up the signum. If an enemy picks up the signum or harms it, the kobolds focus their attacks on that creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

