# Kobold Centurion

**description**: Kobold communities, called legions, are found in every biome and across the timescape. Gravitating toward powerful allies and defensible locations, kobolds are equally common in walled cities, secluded temples, subterranean tunnel-mazes, and dragon lairs. Most legions strive to be good neighbors or to go entirely unnoticed, but when a community falls under the sway of a malevolent wyrm or power-hungry centurion, they pose a significant threat. Defensive Masters. In a world filled with bigger, hungrier creatures, kobolds survived by becoming experts in collective defense. Kobold shield tactics are legendary; every warrior carries a shield into battle, and soldiers defend each other in tightly choreographed formations. More than a tool, a kobold’s shield is a symbol of their commitment to defending their legion, and they decorate these treasured possessions with battle trophies and illustrations of great deeds. Kobold legionaries may join worthy adventurers as retainers, lending their defensive prowess to their new allies as they ko-boldly go where no kobold has gone before. Unconventional Tactics. Relentless innovators, kobolds can easily outsmart anyone who doesn’t take them seriously. Their foes haven’t experienced a true kobold battle until they survive exploding javelins or flaming nets. Kobold homes are protected with deadly hazards and ambush points. In open warfare, legions deploy mechanical dragons and flaming spike pit traps. Tiny Dragons. Most kobolds believe their ancestors were created by powerful dragons—and with sharp, angular features and prominent dorsal crests, they certainly look the part! Newborn kobolds have brilliant chromatic, metallic, or crystalline scales; as kobolds age, their scales dim and mottle. Owing to a deep magical connection, a legion that lives under the patronage of a dragon adopts the color of their patron’s scales over several generations. Traits Shield? Shield! The centurion gains a +1 bonus to AC while within 5 feet of at least one ally who also has this trait, is wielding a shield, and isn’t incapacitated or prone. To benefit from this trait, the centurion must be wielding a shield. Actions Pilum. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. Firetail Pilum ( 2 /Day). The centurion ignites a pilum then uses it to make a ranged Pilum attack against a target within 60 feet of them. Hit or miss, the target and each creature in a 5-foot-wide line between the target and the centurion must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take 5 (2d4) fire damage. The line smolders for 1 minute, creating a 5-foot-wide, 20-foot-tall wall of opaque smoke. A creature within reach of the pilum can use an action to extinguish it, causing the smoke to dissipate. Boom Pilum!!! ( 1 /Day). The centurion straps a vial of unstable ores to a pilum then uses it to make a ranged Pilum attack against a target within 60 feet of them. Hit or miss, the ores explode after the attack. The target and each creature within 10 feet of them must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 7 (2d6) thunder damage, is knocked prone, and is deafened for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). On a successful save, a creature takes only half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone or deafened.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

