# Kobold Artifex

**description**: Kobold communities, called legions, are found in every biome and across the timescape. Gravitating toward powerful allies and defensible locations, kobolds are equally common in walled cities, secluded temples, subterranean tunnel-mazes, and dragon lairs. Most legions strive to be good neighbors or to go entirely unnoticed, but when a community falls under the sway of a malevolent wyrm or power-hungry centurion, they pose a significant threat. Defensive Masters. In a world filled with bigger, hungrier creatures, kobolds survived by becoming experts in collective defense. Kobold shield tactics are legendary; every warrior carries a shield into battle, and soldiers defend each other in tightly choreographed formations. More than a tool, a kobold’s shield is a symbol of their commitment to defending their legion, and they decorate these treasured possessions with battle trophies and illustrations of great deeds. Kobold legionaries may join worthy adventurers as retainers, lending their defensive prowess to their new allies as they ko-boldly go where no kobold has gone before. Unconventional Tactics. Relentless innovators, kobolds can easily outsmart anyone who doesn’t take them seriously. Their foes haven’t experienced a true kobold battle until they survive exploding javelins or flaming nets. Kobold homes are protected with deadly hazards and ambush points. In open warfare, legions deploy mechanical dragons and flaming spike pit traps. Tiny Dragons. Most kobolds believe their ancestors were created by powerful dragons—and with sharp, angular features and prominent dorsal crests, they certainly look the part! Newborn kobolds have brilliant chromatic, metallic, or crystalline scales; as kobolds age, their scales dim and mottle. Owing to a deep magical connection, a legion that lives under the patronage of a dragon adopts the color of their patron’s scales over several generations. Traits Shield? Shield! The artifex gains a +1 bonus to AC while within 5 feet of at least one ally who also has this trait, is wielding a shield, and isn’t incapacitated or prone. To benefit from this trait, the artifex must be wielding a shield. Actions Multiattack. The artifex makes one Chain Hook attack and uses Activate Trap, if available. Chain Hook. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 15/30 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage, and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, they must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 15 feet toward the artifex. Activate Trap ( 3 /Day). The artifex activates one of the following hidden traps; the artifex can’t use the same trap two rounds in a row: Spiky Pit Trap. The artifex chooses a point on the ground that they can see within 60 feet of them, opening a concealed 15-foot-square trapdoor on the ground centered on that point to reveal a 10-foot-deep pit trap lined with spikes. Creatures on the ground in the trapdoor’s area must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature falls into the pit and takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage from the spikes and 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall. On a successful save, a creature moves to the nearest unoccupied space outside that area. Swarm of Bees Trap. The artifex chooses a point on the ground that they can see within 60 feet of them, causing a buried canister to erupt and release a 15-foot-radius, 10-foot-high cylinder of swarming bees. When a creature enters the swarm’s area for the first time on a turn or starts their turn there, they must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5 (2d4) poison damage and is poisoned until the end of their next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t poisoned. At the start of each of the artifex’s turns, the swarm moves 10 feet away from the artifex in a straight line. The swarm disperses after 1 minute or when the artifex dies. Wall of Fire Trap. The artifex chooses a point on the ground that they can see within 60 feet of them, igniting a concealed trench of oil and creating a 20-foot long, 15-foot high, and 1-foot-thick wall of fire. When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature who enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends their turn there takes 7 (2d6) fire damage. The wall is opaque and lasts for 1 minute. Running an Artifex The artifex’s shenanigans are more believable if they’re waiting at the battlefield when the characters arrive—the idea is that the artifex is triggering traps they have already set. How they trigger traps is up to you. They could throw their chain hook to pull hidden levers, use a wand or mechanical contraption, or even yell commands to other kobolds toiling in tunnels under the battlefield. You can increase an encounter’s difficulty by giving the artifex allies who can push characters into the traps, or by staging the combat in tight quarters so the traps are more likely to hit multiple characters. You can decrease an encounter’s difficulty by reducing the size of the traps, by placing the traps in predetermined areas and letting characters make ability checks to detect them, or by staging the combat in an open area where the characters can spread out. If the characters dare to challenge a kobold legion in their own lair, an artifex makes an excellent leader of the defense. Give the artifex a way of seeing throughout the lair, such as a network of mirrors, and let them trigger traps anywhere within the lair. Lairs let you deploy traps that wouldn’t make sense in open combat, such as: A tripwire that sends a boulder rolling down the hallway. A tightrope over a lava pool and a concealed kobold on the other side waiting to cut the rope. A pool of blood that conceals a few blood-borne oozes (see “Graveyard and Tomb” in chapter 2, “Environments”). Maze-like corridors and moving false walls that disorient the characters and lead them toward an ambush.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

