# Kobold Venator

**description**: Kobold communities, called legions, are found in every biome and across the timescape. Gravitating toward powerful allies and defensible locations, kobolds are equally common in walled cities, secluded temples, subterranean tunnel-mazes, and dragon lairs. Most legions strive to be good neighbors or to go entirely unnoticed, but when a community falls under the sway of a malevolent wyrm or power-hungry centurion, they pose a significant threat. Defensive Masters. In a world filled with bigger, hungrier creatures, kobolds survived by becoming experts in collective defense. Kobold shield tactics are legendary; every warrior carries a shield into battle, and soldiers defend each other in tightly choreographed formations. More than a tool, a kobold’s shield is a symbol of their commitment to defending their legion, and they decorate these treasured possessions with battle trophies and illustrations of great deeds. Kobold legionaries may join worthy adventurers as retainers, lending their defensive prowess to their new allies as they ko-boldly go where no kobold has gone before. Unconventional Tactics. Relentless innovators, kobolds can easily outsmart anyone who doesn’t take them seriously. Their foes haven’t experienced a true kobold battle until they survive exploding javelins or flaming nets. Kobold homes are protected with deadly hazards and ambush points. In open warfare, legions deploy mechanical dragons and flaming spike pit traps. Tiny Dragons. Most kobolds believe their ancestors were created by powerful dragons—and with sharp, angular features and prominent dorsal crests, they certainly look the part! Newborn kobolds have brilliant chromatic, metallic, or crystalline scales; as kobolds age, their scales dim and mottle. Owing to a deep magical connection, a legion that lives under the patronage of a dragon adopts the color of their patron’s scales over several generations. Traits Not What I Seem. The venator begins combat disguised as an inexperienced warrior. They have advantage on their first weapon attack roll against a creature who hasn’t seen them make an attack. Shield? Shield! The venator gains a +1 bonus to AC while within 5 feet of at least one ally who also has this trait, is wielding a shield, and isn’t incapacitated or prone. To benefit from this trait, the venator must be wielding a shield. Actions Dolabra. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) slashing damage. Net. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 5/15 ft., one Large or smaller creature. Hit: The target is restrained until they are freed. A creature can use their action to make a DC 10 Strength check, freeing themself or another creature within their reach on a success. Dealing 5 slashing damage to the net (AC 10) also frees the creature without harming them and destroys the net. The venator carries one net. Bonus Actions Lost in the Crowd. The venator takes the Hide action. They have advantage on their Dexterity (Stealth) check if they are within 5 feet of two or more allied kobolds. Then We Light the Net on Fire! The venator chooses a creature within 5 feet of them who is restrained by a net and lights that net on fire. While restrained by the net, the target takes 3 (1d6) fire damage at the start of each of their turns. Each time the net deals damage, roll any die. On an odd result, the net burns away and is destroyed, freeing the restrained creature. A creature who attempts to free the restrained creature from the net (as described in the venator’s Net attack) automatically puts out the fire as part of that action, regardless of whether that check succeeds.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 1/4

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

