# Kobold, Ghost Hunter

**description**: The three kobolds bear scars, surly expressions, and, in one case, a clockwork arm, all attesting to a hard life. Each kobold bristles with weapons: a mystical sword, a dripping harpoon, and a radiant crossbow. Their eyes scan the area, catching every detail. Monster hunters crave adventure and the thrill of the hunt. Each monster hunter specializes in slaying particular types of creatures. Some seek to rid the world of the danger the creatures present, while others seek the glory and renown slaying such creatures brings. Monster hunter kobolds don't have an official organization, but they recognize each other almost instantly, boisterously swapping stories over a rat kabob and ale. On occasion, monster hunters work together to take down a truly terrifying foe, sharing in the spoils and glory. Life with the Undead. Ghost hunters seek to eradicate undead from the world, making the world safer for the living. Many make a living from it, while others are driven by a personal grudge. Either way, ghost hunters take their business seriously and do not respond well to those that interfere with their hunting. Each ghost hunter carries a religious relic, hidden behind its eyepatch, which it uses to deliver a holy strike to its enemies. These hunters typically carry other equipment useful in the fight against the undead, such as wooden stakes and holy water. Life on the Sea. Leviathan hunters enjoy wrestling and defeating great sea creatures—the bigger the better. These bulky kobolds spend most of their lives on the sea, always searching for that next big haul. The right target—a sea dragon, an aboleth, a sahuagin outpost—can keep them and their companions living comfortably for many months. While these hunters frequently sign on with any ship looking for extra muscle, they typically end up captaining their own ship, giving them the freedom to chase down the monsters that others flee. Life in the Planes. Planes hunters delight in exploring every nook of the multiverse. They spend most of their lives hopping from plane to plane, always with a burning curiosity for what lies over the next horizon. They collect secrets and magical oddities, but each new treasure simply fuels their continued exploits, rarely staying in one place for long. For the right price, they can be convinced to share their knowledge or to act as guides for other planar travelers. Planes hunters rely on their reputation, and they are loathe to renege on any deals made in good faith. Blessed Weapons. The ghost hunter's weapon attacks are magical. When the hunter hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 3d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). Ethereal Sight. The ghost hunter can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa. Hidden Hunter. While the ghost hunter remains motionless, it is invisible to Undead. Pack Tactics. The ghost hunter has advantage on attack rolls against a target if at least one of the hunter's allies is within 5 feet of the target and the ally isn't incapacitated. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the ghost hunter has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Undead Hunter. The ghost hunter has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to find and track Undead. Actions Multiattack. The ghost hunter makes three Shortsword or Hand Crossbow attacks. It can replace one attack with a Flame Jet attack. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 13 (9d8) radiant damage. Hand Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) radiant damage. Flame Jet. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) fire damage. If the target is a creature or a flammable object that isn't being worn or carried, it ignites. Until a creature takes an action to douse the fire, the target takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. Holy Strike (Recharge 5-6). The ghost hunter flips up its eyepatch to reveal a holy relic embedded within the empty socket. Each creature within 30 feet of the ghost hunter must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If an Undead fails the saving throw, it is also stunned until the end of its next turn. Bonus Actions Grappling Hook (Recharge 4-6). The ghost hunter launches its grappling hook at a Large or larger object or structure or at a Huge or larger creature it can see within 60 feet of it and is pulled to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the target without provoking opportunity attacks. Elusive Hunter. The ghost hunter takes the Dodge or Hide action. Reactions Flame Burst. When a hostile creature enters a space within 5 feet of the ghost hunter, the hunter can release a burst of fire from its clockwork hand. The creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) fire damage and have disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes against the ghost hunter before the end of the ghost hunter's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

