# Kobold Adeptus

**description**: Kobold communities, called legions, are found in every biome and across the timescape. Gravitating toward powerful allies and defensible locations, kobolds are equally common in walled cities, secluded temples, subterranean tunnel-mazes, and dragon lairs. Most legions strive to be good neighbors or to go entirely unnoticed, but when a community falls under the sway of a malevolent wyrm or power-hungry centurion, they pose a significant threat. Defensive Masters. In a world filled with bigger, hungrier creatures, kobolds survived by becoming experts in collective defense. Kobold shield tactics are legendary; every warrior carries a shield into battle, and soldiers defend each other in tightly choreographed formations. More than a tool, a kobold’s shield is a symbol of their commitment to defending their legion, and they decorate these treasured possessions with battle trophies and illustrations of great deeds. Kobold legionaries may join worthy adventurers as retainers, lending their defensive prowess to their new allies as they ko-boldly go where no kobold has gone before. Unconventional Tactics. Relentless innovators, kobolds can easily outsmart anyone who doesn’t take them seriously. Their foes haven’t experienced a true kobold battle until they survive exploding javelins or flaming nets. Kobold homes are protected with deadly hazards and ambush points. In open warfare, legions deploy mechanical dragons and flaming spike pit traps. Tiny Dragons. Most kobolds believe their ancestors were created by powerful dragons—and with sharp, angular features and prominent dorsal crests, they certainly look the part! Newborn kobolds have brilliant chromatic, metallic, or crystalline scales; as kobolds age, their scales dim and mottle. Owing to a deep magical connection, a legion that lives under the patronage of a dragon adopts the color of their patron’s scales over several generations. Traits Shield? Shield! The adeptus gains a +1 bonus to AC while within 5 feet of at least one ally who also has this trait, is wielding a shield, and isn’t incapacitated or prone. To benefit from this trait, the adeptus must be wielding a shield. Actions Firecracker. Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (2d4) fire damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be deafened until the end of their next turn. Shocking Grasp (Cantrip). Melee Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) lightning damage, and the target can’t take reactions until the start of their next turn. The adeptus has advantage on this attack roll if the target is wearing metal armor. Lesser Magic Missile ( 1 /Day; 1 st-Level Spell). The adeptus creates three glowing darts of magical force. Each dart hits a creature of their choice who they can see within 120 feet of them. A dart deals 2 (1d2 + 1) force damage to its target. The darts all strike simultaneously, and the adeptus can direct them to hit one creature or several. This action is considered to be the magic missile spell for the purpose of other spells and effects.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 1/8

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

