# Kobold, Drake Rider

**description**: The kobold sits astride a drake, taking a brief respite. Words pass between them, and they laugh, their wings and scales shining. Kobold drake riders specialize in training and riding drakes—whether through the skies, the seas, or the trees. Their skills are especially valued as scouts in times of war. Bonded Companions. The bond of trust needed between a drake and rider to work effectively together takes time and effort to forge. Since there are so many types of drakes, these kobolds specialize, focusing their training on just a few types of drakes, either taken from tradition or from proximity. Drakes and their riders often meld their families together, creating successive generations of drakes and their riders. Drake Mount. The drake rider has formed a bond with a Medium or larger drake mount (found in this or other books or use the statistics of a giant lizard). Regardless of the drake's intelligence, it acts as a controlled mount while carrying a drake rider, obeying the rider's spoken commands. Mounting and dismounting the drake costs the drake rider only 5 feet of movement. Mounted Warrior. While the drake rider is mounted, its mount can't be charmed or frightened. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drake rider has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Sure Seat. While mounted and not incapacitated, the drake rider can't be knocked prone, dismounted, or moved against its will. Actions Multiattack. The drake rider makes three Spear attacks. If the rider is mounted, its mount can then make one Bite, Claw, Slam, or Tail attack. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage, or 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack. Trained Tactics (Recharge 4-6). The drake rider commands its mount to move up to 30 feet in a straight line, moving through the space of any Large or smaller creature and performing one of the following tactical maneuvers. This movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. Barrel Roll. The mount flies up and over one creature in the line, ending its movement at least 10 feet past the target. As the drake rider hangs upside down at the top of the loop, it makes one Spear attack against the target with advantage. On a hit, the rider rolls damage dice three times. The mount must have a flying speed to use this maneuver. Corkscrew Roll. The mount swims in a corkscrew around the creatures in the line. Each creature in the line must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be incapacitated with dizziness until the end of its next turn. The mount must have a swimming speed to use this maneuver. Weaving Rush. The mount weaves back and forth along the line. Each creature in the line must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Reactions Failsafe Equipment. The drake rider wears wing-like arm and feet flaps folded on its back. If its mount dies or it is dismounted, the rider descends 60 feet per round and takes no damage from falling, if its mount was flying, or it gains a swimming speed of 30 feet for 1 minute, if its mount was swimming.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Kobold)
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

