# Kometes

**description**: A kometes is a towering humanoid fey seemingly made of billowing, glowing blue mist and clumps of dark rock. Long streamers of blue gas and ice trail behind its head like hair. A kometes is a spirit born from the dancing tails of comets, especially comets that carry the seeds of life. Ever after, a kometes dances among these icy bodies as they circle the stars. They fawn over the life-forms they observe on planets from high above, watching like mortals might adore an ant farm. Companions to Star Fairies. Many kometes delight in cavorting with star fairies, who kometes idolize for their knowledge and glamour. The kometes dance around a gracious star fairy, eager to please, almost as consistently as comets revolve around a star. Kometes encountered away from their comets are often seeking out cosmic novelties hidden from the sight of a certain star in the hopes of pleasing a jaded star fairy. Drawn to Cosmic Castaways. A comet is most likely to spawn a kometes when it carries a bit of life cast into the void between stars by a dying planet. Kometes that find such comets regard them as sacred, protecting them from starfaring interlopers and seeking to coax their orbits toward habitable worlds. Unfortunately, they sometimes don’t realize that such a trajectory can cause devastation to the world below. Having seen the eradication of life many times over the course of their millennia-long journeys, many kometes choose to take efforts to capture and preserve life forms against utter extinction. These steps usually amount to capturing lonesome samples of various creatures—including humanoids—and preserving them in frozen stasis on a comet. This stasis can last for eons, generally ending when the comet impacts a new planetary home or when the kometes spies a promising planet to take the subjects down to personally. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fey
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

