# Korred Elder

**description**: The korred elders are the leaders of the korred community. They give advice and direction to the rest of the korreds and, at times, also lead them in battles. They organize ceremonies such as the Father of the Dance, a traditional worship ceremony to Tappan the Undying, the korred god, in the form of a dance. Traits Stone Camouflage. The korred has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. Actions Multiattack. The korred makes two attacks with its Greatclub or hurls two Rocks. It can use Hair Slam or Fool's Dance in place of one of its attacks. Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage, or 20 (3d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage if the korred is on the ground. Hair Slam. The korred slams a creature grappled by its hair into another creature it can see within 30 feet of it or a solid surface. Each creature must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or take 11 (1d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage, or 20 (3d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage if the korred is on the ground, and be stunned until the end of the korred's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage, or 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage if the korred is on the ground. Spellcasting. The korred casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (save DC 15): At will: commune with nature, meld into stone, stone shape 1/day each: conjure elemental (as 6th-level spell; galeb duhr, gargoyle, earth elemental, or xorn only), Otto’s irresistible dance Fool's Dance (1/Day). The korred chooses up to three creatures it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target must immediately use its reaction to perform a comical dance (shuffling, tapping its feet, and capering) and move as far as half its speed allows away from the korred. This movement will provoke opportunity attacks. On a successful save, the target is unaffected. Creatures that can't be charmed are immune to this feature. Bonus Actions Command Hair. The korred has at least one 50-foot-long rope woven out of its hair. The korred commands one such rope within 30 feet of it to move up to 20 feet and entangle a Large or smaller creature that the korred can see. Alternatively, the korred can command its own hair, which can magically grow up to 30 feet in length to entangle a Large or smaller creature that the korred can see. In either cases, the target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or become grappled by the rope or hair (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The korred can use a bonus action to release the target, which is also freed if the korred dies or becomes incapacitated. A rope of korred hair has AC 20 and 20 hit points. It regains 1 hit point at the start of each of the korred’s turns while it has at least 1 hit point and the korred is alive. If the rope drops to 0 hit points, it is destroyed. Rhyme of Calling. The korred targets up to two creatures within 30 feet of it that can hear it. Each target can use their reaction to move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

