# Krake Spawn

**description**: This twisted, unnatural beast looks like the unholy union of squid and spider. Its shell-covered core has six small rubbery legs, peculiar antennae, and six tentacles around a squid’s enormous beak. Unlike krakens and giant squid, krake spawn can scuttle onto land. Demonic Crossbreeds. Some believe krake spawn are demonic crossbreeds created by the aboleth, fusing kraken blood with demonic souls. Others say that krake spawn are the horrible creation of a long-forgotten meddling god, summoned to the mortal world by deep ones. Certainly krake spawn do respond to summoning magic, and sorcerers do summon krake spawn through blood sacrifices to work evil in the world. However, they do so at considerable peril: unlike demons and devils, krake spawn are seldom bound by pacts of any kind. Outwit Humans. Though enormous and carrying an armored green shell on their six spindly legs, krake spawn are surprisingly quick and agile. Worse, they have a malicious and bloodthirsty intellect. A krake spawn is considerably smarter than most humans, who mistake them for dumb beasts—an error that can often prove fatal. Iceberg Fortresses. Krake spawn live in remote, icy regions, where they fashion elaborate iceberg fortresses. When they venture into warmer climes in search of magic or slaves, they can preserve their icebergs with ice storms. These fortresses are stocked with frozen creatures (an emergency food supply), the krake spawn’s treasure and library, slaves or prisoners of many races, and a hellish nest filled with the krake spawn’s offspring. A krake spawn measures 40 feet in length and weighs 2,000 lb. Traits Amphibious: The krake spawn can breathe air and water. Jet: While underwater, the krake spawn can take the withdraw action to jet backward at a speed of 140 feet. It must move in a straight line while using this ability. Innate Spellcasting: The krake spawn’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: protection from energy, ray of frost 1/day each: ice storm, wall of ice Actions Multiattack: The krake spawn makes eight tentacle attacks and one bite attack. It can subsitute one constrict attack for two tentacle attacks if it has a creature grappled at the start of its turn, but it never constricts more than once per turn. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., One target. Hit : 12 (1d10 + 7) Slashing damage. Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., One target. Hit : 10 (1d6 + 7) Necrotic damage. On hit, if two tentacle attacks hit the same target in one turn, the target is also grappled, escape DC 17. Constrict: The constricted creature takes 26 (3d12 + 7) bludgeoning damage and is grappled (escape DC 17) and restrained. Ink Cloud (Recharge 6): The krake spawn emits black, venomous ink in a 30-foot cloud as a bonus action while underwater. The cloud affects vision as the darkness spell, and any creature that starts its turn inside the cloud takes 10 (3d6) poison damage, or half damage with a successful DC 18 Constitution saving throw. The krake spawn’s darkvision is not impaired by this cloud. The cloud persists for 1 minute, then disperses. Vomit Forth the Deeps (1/Day): The krake spawn sprays half‑digested food from its maw over a 15‑foot cone. This acidic slurry causes 3 (1d6) acid damage and targets must make a successful DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated until the end of their next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: monstrosity
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral evil
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

