# Krampus Lord

**description**: A krampus is a diabolical fiend that collects mortal souls. It resembles a 9-foot-tall humanoid with a muscular hunched body covered in thick matted gray fur. Long goat-like horns grow from its forehead and its legs end in cloven hooves. Its mouth is filled with sharp, pointed teeth with a long serpentine tongue lolling out from it. Supernatural Weapons. The krampus wraps its body with large chains from which hangs multiple hand bells. It uses these chains as a weapon, whipping it at its targets to beat and ensnare them. The krampus can also forcefully beat its chains and bells, causing an eerie clanging sound. Those who hear it are gripped with paralyzing fear. The krampus also carries a birch rod, a tightly-bundled set of birch branches, which it uses as a weapon. Anyone struck by the birch rod experiences intense pain or nausea. On the krampus’s back is a wooden cage where it keeps its prisoners. Collector of the Wicked. The krampus enters the Material Plane during the coldest of winters and brings with it terror and despair. It has been sent by the archdevil Mephistopheles to hunt and devour corrupt and ill-mannered individuals in order to gather their souls. The krampus prefers the taste of young children, however, and actively hunts for them at night. Nightstalker. The krampus favors hunting under the cover of darkness. It moves around trees and buildings quietly and swiftly, prowling like a stalking cat. It can even crawl along ceilings and walls effortlessly like a spider, sniffing out potential targets before pouncing on them. Victims are usually captured alive and placed inside the krampus’s cage, and brought back to the krampus’s lair to be tortured and eaten. Elders and Lords. More powerful types of krampus, such as the elder and lord, can teleport themselves and unleash powerful frost spells. A Krampus Lord's Lair Ruined keeps, dungeons, and fortified cavern complexes in cold, snowcapped mountains are the preferred lairs of a krampus lord. Low-ranking devils such as imps and evil humanoids and fey such as goblins and redcaps often serve as minions for the krampus lord. A krampus lord encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 17 (18,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the krampus can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the krampus can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The krampus chooses up to four points on the ground within 120 feet of it. The krampus need not see each point. Icy, glass-like spines sprout from the ground in a 20-foot radius burst centered on each point. The effect is otherwise identical to the spike growth spell and lasts for 1 minute, until the krampus uses this lair action again, or until the krampus dies or is incapacitated. The krampus casts telekinesis (spell save DC 18, no components required) and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. The effect lasts for 1 minute, until the krampus uses this lair action again, or until the krampus dies or is incapacitated. The krampus targets one or more creatures it can see within 120 feet of it. Animated supernaturally-cold chains with sharp barbs and hooks appear and extend from the ceiling, floors, and walls to ensnare each target. Each target must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the barbed chains for 1 minute, or if the krampus uses this lair action again. While restrained, a creature takes 4 (1d8) piercing damage and 4 (1d8) cold damage at the start of each of its turns. The barbed chains can be destroyed to end the effect. Each barbed chain has AC 20, 20 hit points, resistant to piercing damage, and immunity to bludgeoning, cold, poison, psychic, and thunder damage. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the krampus's darkvision. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the krampus fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The krampus has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The krampus makes two melee attacks. It can replace one melee attack with Imprison. Birch Rod. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage and if the target is a non-good aligned creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the krampus's next turn. Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 16) if the krampus isn't already grappling a creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. Imprison. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated Medium or smaller creature grappled by the krampus. Hit: The creature is imprisoned inside krampus's back cage, and the grapple ends. The imprisoned creature is frightened and restrained. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 19 Strength check, breaking out from the cage on a success. The cage can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 15; hp 100; resistant to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks; immunity to poison and psychic damage). The krampus can have up to two Medium creatures, one Medium and two smaller creatures, or four Small and smaller creatures trapped inside its cage. Spellcasting. The krampus casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks): At will: detect evil and good, ray of frost (4d8), spider climb 2/day each: fog cloud, ice storm, invisibility, sleet storm 1/day each: cone of cold, polymorph Bonus Actions Clanging Bells and Chains. The krampus activates or deactivates the clanging of its bells and chains. While clanging, any creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the krampus and can hear the krampus must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the krampus until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the creature is paralyzed. If a target’s saving throw is successful, the target is immune to the krampus’s Clanging Bells and Chains for the next 24 hours. Teleport (Recharge 5–6). The krampus magically teleports, along with any creature or equipment it is carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Legendary Actions The krampus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The krampus regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The krampus moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Chain. The krampus makes a Chain attack. Birch Rod (Costs 2 Actions). The krampus makes a Birch Rod attack. Infernal Magic (Costs 3 Actions). The krampus uses Spellcasting or Teleport.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

