# Kryo Aima Dragon Sentinel

**description**: At the very center of the city resides a massive building, stretching into the sky. This place is named The Gleaming Steeple , the Central monument of the city reaching 400 feet in height. It is both symbolic of the advancement and progress reached by the settlers in the north of the continent and a magical structure made of a special mineral only found in the cold mountains north of Kryo Aima. This stone is labeled Miststone, due to its connection to the arcane domain of Hecate. At the very top of this monument there are three massive port-like ledges, from which three massive figures are always watching the city below and the horizon beyond. These beings remain in place, vigilant for danger that may need their intervention. These are the Sentinels. Three-headed dragon-like constructs that are placed within the public’s view at all times, to be a reminder of the power they have as people from Kryo Aima. Although there are elements within the society of the city that would disagree, believing that their presence is a looming threat to any dissidents. They are a very beautiful gleaming silver color, with an internal magical blue light pouring forth from several parts of its body. Their design is sleek and elegant, not unlike the silver dragons who passed down very unique techniques of automaton creation during the early days of Kryo Aima’s founding era, centuries ago. Draconic Origin. The dragon sentinels are a unique automaton, for they are the only ones that even have the capacity to reject orders. This peculiar trait is theorized to exist because of the magical origin of the dragon’s core, a fossilized gem-like dragon egg. This leads to the automaton having some semblance of awareness, but one so minimal that it might be even lesser than that of a wild animal. Higher-ups in Control. Due to the peculiarity of this automaton’s behavior when left alone, a system of control was set in place. Using a special set of magical rings divided amongst several members of the ruling council of the city, which are voted on by way of a yearly agreement between the most influential citizens of Kryo Aima, the sentinels are kept tame. The rings place a great physical and mental strain on the user over time, which further encourages the rotation of the responsible members. Constructed Nature. The sentinel doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Kryo Aima Located in the far north, Kryo Aima is the youngest of all the superpowers in the continent. However, this does not mean that it is weak or small by any measure, for they are easily the most technologically advanced city-state within the reach of the gods. The advancements of this city are the result of a combined effort between multiple tribes coming together, the incidental development of a culture that appreciates artisans and engineers due to their work being a great necessity in the dangerous north. The hostility presented by the land around them and their denizens, which included white dragons, winter wolves, yeti and more, created a need for constant development in technology as magic was not cutting it. Due to the rarity of people capable of wielding magical power, ensuring access to weapons and tools that anyone could use became vital. Thus the creation of gunpowder and firearms took place. Combined with the existing knowledge of Automatons, Kryo Aima innovated on all fronts of engineering, magical or nonmagical. In the present we have a city teeming with constructs, clockwork machinery and devices that help make life in the north much more bearable and safe. Masters of the Sky. Another claim to fame the city has is the creation and control of the majority of Airships in the continent. Kryo Aima is the only city that can claim to have a sky-fleet as part of their military, which has made them inevitably a rival force to hostile flying creatures such as chromatic dragons. Constructs Automatons are not an uncommon sight in the mythology of Greece. The god of the forge is the inve ntor of several famous constructs which inhabit these grand tales, but there are plenty of brilliant mortals who have adopted the craft as well. Traits Bound Guardian. The dragon sentinel is magically bound to a set of four amulets. As long as the dragon is within 1 mile of an amulet wearer on the same plane of existence, the wearer can communicate telepathically with the dragon and prevent it from going berserk. Two amulet wearers are needed to control the dragon sentinel properly. If there is a single amulet wearer within 1 mile of the dragon sentinel, the wearer must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or suffer one level of exhaustion every time they try to command the dragon sentinel. If there are no amulet wearers within 1 mile, the dragon sentinel will attack the closest creature or structure. The amulets are all magic items that require attunement. Immutable Form. The dragon sentinel is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The dragon sentinel has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The dragon sentinel's weapon attacks are magical. Siege Monster. The dragon sentinel deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack. The dragon sentinel makes four attacks: One with its bite, two with its claws and one with its arcane blast. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) force damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d6 + 8) slashing damage. Arcane Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 100/300ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) force damage. Arcane Breath (Recharge 5-6). The dragon exhales raw magic energy in a 60-foot cone as two heads power down in order to fire. Each creature in this cone must make a DC 20 Strength saving throw, taking 58 (12d8) force damage, and is pulled 30 feet towards the dragon's position on a failed save. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage, and is not pulled towards the dragon. Bonus Actions Arcane Step. The dragon sentinel magically teleports to an unoccupied space it can see within 60 feet of it. Legendary Actions Kryo Aima Dragon Sentinel can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Kryo Aima Dragon Sentinel regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Claw. The dragon sentinel makes one claw attack. Arcane Blast (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon sentinel makes one arcane blast attack. Arcane Absorption (Costs 3 Actions). The dragon sentinel unleashes a shockwave of blue energy from its central head in a 30-foot-radius. Magical effects of 5th level or lower are dispelled and magic items with a rarity below rare stop working until the start of the dragon sentinel's next turn. If any magic was dispelled, the dragon sentinel's arcane breath recharges instantly.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

