# Kryo Aima Construct Protector

**description**: The city of Kryo Aima is a superpower in regards to the construction of automatons, firearms, a wide range of technologies and experimental weapons. As such, it isn’t a big surprise that the majority of their army and security is composed completely by constructs. The gearcon soldier is an example of the most widely available combat automaton at the disposal of the city. Armed with some decent armor and weaponry, including firearms, these artificial soldiers perform a number of duties with their limited intelligence. Directives and Duty. All constructs of Kryo Aima are embedded with directives to follow at the end of their building process. That is to say rules that directly control their behavior, so their limited intelligence cannot be a danger to others. Depending on the model of construct and utility they may have, the creators place more or less directives to suit the city’s convenience. These directives are buried so deeply that even taking control of a construct through magic wouldn’t overwrite it. Directive: Protect the City. The soldiers are crafted as the first line of defense against all threats to the city. From invaders, troublesome wildlife and internal issues like violent crime, these automatons are sent alongside humanoid leaders who oversee all operations to ensure the best result. As such they double as part of an internal police force. Constructed Nature. The soldier doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Types of Construct Soldiers Although the general body is mostly the same from soldier to soldier, their equipment and specialties in combat are the grand difference amongst them. Soldier: The most common type, equipped for melee combat and with a supplemental firearm. Gunner: The second most common type, with similar equipment to the soldier but modified to specialize in ranged combat. Bomber: The explosives specialists of the army, outfitted with arcane cannons to replace their shields. Shield Legion The defense specialists, designed with durability in mind. They wield two shields, a sword and magical abjuration barriers that dispel weak magic and enhance their armor. Champion The mechanical elite of the army. They are exceptional with both melee weaponry and firearms. Their equipment carries multiple enchantments, allowing them access to spellcasting, as well as many of the benefits of the lesser models. Kryo Aima Located in the far north, Kryo Aima is the youngest of all the superpowers in the continent. However, this does not mean that it is weak or small by any measure, for they are easily the most technologically advanced city-state within the reach of the gods. The advancements of this city are the result of a combined effort between multiple tribes coming together, the incidental development of a culture that appreciates artisans and engineers due to their work being a great necessity in the dangerous north. The hostility presented by the land around them and their denizens, which included white dragons, winter wolves, yeti and more, created a need for constant development in technology as magic was not cutting it. Due to the rarity of people capable of wielding magical power, ensuring access to weapons and tools that anyone could use became vital. Thus the creation of gunpowder and firearms took place. Combined with the existing knowledge of Automatons, Kryo Aima innovated on all fronts of engineering, magical or nonmagical. In the present we have a city teeming with constructs, clockwork machinery and devices that help make life in the north much more bearable and safe. Masters of the Sky. Another claim to fame the city has is the creation and control of the majority of Airships in the continent. Kryo Aima is the only city that can claim to have a sky-fleet as part of their military, which has made them inevitably a rival force to hostile flying creatures such as chromatic dragons. Constructs Automatons are not an uncommon sight in the mythology of Greece. The god of the forge is the inve ntor of several famous constructs which inhabit these grand tales, but there are plenty of brilliant mortals who have adopted the craft as well. Traits Spellcasting. The protector's Spellcasting Ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: eldritch blast 3/day each: absorb elements, counterspell, dispel magic, shield 2/day each: gravity sinkhole, magic missile (as a 5th level spell) 1/day each: gravity fissure, steel wind strike Immutable Form. The protector is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Limited Magic Immunity. The protector can't be affected or detected by spells of 2nd level or lower unless it wishes to be. It has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects. Magic Weapons. The protector's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The protector makes 3 attacks with any of its weapons or shoots 3 eldritch blasts. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 18 (4d8) force damage. Longsword (Two-handed). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) slashing damage plus 18 (4d8) force damage. Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a medium or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Arcane Firearm. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 40/120ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) force damage. Eldritch Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 300ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) force damage. A creature struck by the blast is pulled 10 ft towards the protector.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

