# Kubot

**description**: Kubot (Koo-bot) The dreadful kubot is a female aswang who often appears as a stunningly beautiful young maiden in her humanoid form. Her alluring looks hide a dark personality, as the kubot is malicious, spiteful, and filled with conceit. In her fiend form, the kubot resembles a hag or female vampire with dark gray skin, clawed hands and feet, and massively long hair that billows like seaweed underwater. She moves like a spider, using her claws and hair to crawl across rooftops, tree branches, and steep walls. Vampiric Stalker. A female afflicted with the kubot curse ages a year each day. To revert to her young age, she must transform into a kubot and feed on the life force of a young humanoid. At night, the kubot prowls dark wooded areas, secluded farmlands, and shadowy alleys searching for youthful victims. She smothers and blinds her prey by forcibly shoving her tentacle-like hair strands into the victim's eyes, ears, nostrils, and mouth. Once the target is secured, she drains it of its life essence, leaving nothing but a withered and dried husk. Afterwards, the kubot becomes as young as its last prey. The Dark Prince's Gift. It is said that the very first kubot was once a very attractive but vain and wicked aristocratic woman who, as she got older, became more envious and resentful of the young women who stole the attention away from her. She sought ways to look younger, and as she got more obsessed and insane, she secretly ordered young virgins murdered. She then bathed in their blood, believing that this would make her young. Her vile actions were eventually noticed by Graz’zt the Dark Prince, who then offered her the gift of eternal beauty. Desperate, the woman accepted and she was transformed to her 18-year old version. Unfortunately, she also gained the kubot curse. Duplicitous Nature. Because of how the curse affects her, a kubot often lives a double life. In most cases, she will act as a young daughter during her young days and portray her mother during long periods that she hasn’t fed. Aswang (Uh-swung) An aswang is an accursed humanoid that transforms into a fiend. In its natural form, an aswang resembles a typical humanoid. At night, it can change its shape into a cunning, demonic predator. It hunts other humanoids and feasts on their blood, organs, or life force. Aswang Curse. A humanoid creature can be afflicted by the aswang curse after it willingly made or was tricked into making a dark pact with a Demon Lord, sometimes through the actions of a hag. One can also be born into it if one or both of its parents are aswangs. Casting remove curse, greater restoration , or similar spell can free a humanoid of the curse, but a natural born aswang can only be freed of the curse with a wish . An aswang can either resist its curse or welcome it. By fighting the curse, an aswang keeps its normal behavior and personality while in its natural form. It can try to live its life as it wants but must constantly stave off the urge to feed. However, at nights of the full moon, the hunger becomes too great, and the curse overcomes the individual, forcing it to transform into its fiendish form. An aswang driven to this state becomes ravenous and will not stop hunting until it has fed. Each night that it fails to feed in its fiend form, it gains 1 level of exhaustion. A genuinely depraved individual, or someone corrupted by it, sees the aswang curse as a gift and, over time, masters the ability to change into a fiend. However, an aswang can only transform at night and retain its demonic form until dawn, at which point it automatically transforms back to its humanoid form. Masters of Deception. Aswangs hide in plain sight, living amongst normal folk and often taking up occupations like butchers, hunters, gravediggers, taxidermists, and trappers to help divert suspicions of why their homes may sometimes smell of carrion and death. They insert themselves into humanoid communities and earn their neighbors' trust through charm, friendliness, and generosity. They avoid getting physically close to an individual, though, because if one looks directly at their eyes, they will discover that their reflection is upside down. Aswangs tend to prey on members of society that no one will miss if they suddenly disappear. If such targets are unavailable, they travel to another community, settlement, or location that is far from their homes. They won't risk feeding near where they live. Anyone who becomes suspicious of them, or sees them in their fiendish form, is always dealt with immediately for fear of rousing an organized mob. A successful clan of aswangs can live in the outskirts of town, preying on its citizens for years without getting caught. If things start to go awry, the aswangs will not risk staying. They will leave as soon as they can and establish themselves in another community to begin anew. Night Stalkers. Aswangs are careful, patient, and stealthy hunters, often choosing targets that are defenseless or weak. Typically during the day, aswangs pick and mark their target and identify where they live. At night after they transform, they stalk their prey and bide their time until they can attack when their target is most vulnerable. This means most of their assaults happen when their target is alone or asleep. They often just leave the bodies of their victims where they are to avoid the risk of getting caught. Because their kills bear specific types of wounds commonly attributed to ghouls, lycanthropes, or vampires, they aren't worried suspicions about their presence will be brought up. Aswang Weaknesses. Aswangs, much like vampires, have several weaknesses. They find the pungent smell of garlic repulsive, and the chemical properties of pure salt sicken it. While an aswang can resist most blows, weapons made from a stingray's barbed tail, even simple ones, can hurt them normally. Because they become fiends while transformed, they are susceptible to attacks that specifically harm fiends, such as holy water. If an aswang fails its saving throw against a Dispel Evil and Good spell, it reverts to its humanoid form and can't transform for 1 minute. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The kubot has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Rapid Aging. The kubot ages 1 year each day. Actions Multiattack. The kubot makes two attacks: two with its Dagger (humanoid form) or one with her Hair Wrap and one with her Claws (fiend form). Hair Wrap (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d4 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 12). Until this grapple ends, the target can't breathe, is blinded, restrained, and the kubot can't use her Hair Wrap against other targets. Claws (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d4 + 6) slashing damage. Consume Energy (Fiend Form Only). The kubot draws energy from a creature it is grappling with. The target makes a DC 12 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The kubot regains hit points equal to the amount of necrotic damage dealt. If a creature dies from this action, the kubot gains the age of the creature. The kubot's age can't go below 18 years old. Dagger (Humanoid Form Only). Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. Change Shape. The kubot polymorphs into her Fiend Form or back into her true form, which is humanoid. In Fiend Form, the kubot appears as a female vampire with enormous flowing hair. Her statistics, other than her Speed, damage, and damage resistances, are the same in each form. She reverts to her true form at dawn or if she dies. The kubot can only use this action at night. While transformed, the kubot also gains the following features: The kubot's creature type changes to fiend. The kubot has advantage on Strength and Dexterity checks and Strength and Dexterity saving throws. When the kubot makes a melee weapon attack, she gains a +3 bonus to the damage roll (included in the attack). The kubot can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. If the kubot starts her turn within 10 feet of a pound of salt or garlic, she becomes poisoned until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

