# Kumiho

**description**: The kumiho is a malevolent shapeshifting fey that preys on humanoid beings. In its natural form, the kumiho appears as a magnificent-looking white-furred fox with nine long tails. It spends most of its existence, however, taking the form and living the life of an extremely attractive humanoid. This transformation isn’t perfect though, as the kumiho retains its foxlike ears and nine tails. To keep these features hidden from view, the kumiho would wear cloaks, hoods, and long dresses or skirts. Heart Eater. A kumiho is a blood-thirsty predator, driven by its insatiable need to consume hearts and livers. It prowls streets and outsides of taverns and inns, waiting for a potential target. Typically, a kumiho, in the guise of a courtesan or a vulnerable person in need, will draw the attention of someone, and using its natural gifts of deception and persuasion, will lead the prey to a place where they can be alone. Once the kumiho has isolated its target, it puts its target under its spell by using its Charm ability. The kumiho then wraps the victim with its nine tails. Once the prey is secured, the kumiho’s hands turn into vicious claws, using them to violently dig into the chest of the helpless target while it is still alive and extract its heart and liver. Once a kumiho has eaten these organs, it will not age and need not eat again for 100 days. Energy-Draining Kiss. An elder or ancient kumiho also has the ability to deliver a deep kiss that saps a victim of its life energy and even absorbs some of its recent memories, thoughts, and secrets. It is due to this that some powerful beings employ kumiho as spies and at times, assassins. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The kumiho has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Actions Multiattack. The kumiho makes two attacks: one with its Tails and one with its Claws (Humanoid Form) or one with its Tails and one with its Bite (Fox Form). Claws (Humanoid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage. Tails. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 13). Bite (Fox Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. Extract Heart. Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid or humanoid grappled by the kumiho. Hit: The target takes 25 (4d10 + 3) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the kumiho kills the target by extracting its heart. Charm (Humanoid Form Only). One humanoid the kumiho can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 day. The charmed target obeys the kumiho's verbal or telepathic commands. If the target suffers any harm or receives a suicidal command, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. If the target successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune to this kumiho's Charm for the next 24 hours. The kumiho can have only one target charmed at a time. If it charms another, the effect on the previous target ends. Change Shape. The kumiho magically transforms into a Medium Humanoid or back into its true form, a Medium fox, while retaining its game statistics. The transformation into a Humanoid isn't perfect, as the kumiho still retains the ears and nine tails of its fox form. This transformation ends if the kumiho is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

