# Kuo-toa Godshaper

**description**: Kuo-toa Stat Blocks In addition to the kuo-toa stat blocks in the Monster Manual , this section presents two new stat blocks that demonstrate the powers wielded by kuo-toa seers and shapers. These kuo-toa have an unusually high Armor Class, which reflects heir ability to manifest spectral armor from their dreams; this is typically formed from misty shadow, with full details flickering into existence and fading away. The Dreamstrike attack of the dreamseer uses weapons similarly forged from dreamstuff. The greatest power is that of the godshaper, who can conjure a powerful entity and enhance its power over time. While the godshaper is mechanically presented as controlling the god-entity, the idea is that this guidance is limited; the god will fight the enemies of the kuo-toa, but kuo-toa gods are typically cruel and can't be commanded. The godshaper is the god’s subject, not its master. A pair of grinning kuo-toa draped in black shadows swim in the ocean depths, and behind them, a many-armed manifestation of nightmare lurks in the background with sinister glowing eyes. Traits Amphibious. The godshaper can breathe air and water. Otherworldly Perception. The godshaper can sense the presence of each creature within 30 feet of it that is invisible or on the Ethereal Plane. It can pinpoint such a creature that is moving. Slippery. The godshaper has advantage on ability checks and saving throws made to escape a grapple. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the godshaper has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. Dreams of Victory. The godshaper sees the fierce attacks of a kuo-toa deity in the dreamscape. The godshaper chooses one deity it can see that was created by its Shape Deity or a friendly godshaper’s Shape Deity, moving that deity up to 30 feet to a space it can see. After this move, each creature of the godshaper’s choice within 20 feet of the deity must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Dreams of Strength. The godshaper sees the ever-growing power of a kuo-toa deity in the dreamscape. The godshaper chooses one deity it can see that was created by its Shape Deity or a friendly godshaper’s Shape Deity. That deity gains the following cumulative benefits: Its size increases by one category (such as from Medium to Large). Its AC increases by 1. It regains 10 hit points and its maximum hit points increase by 10. When a godshaper uses Dreams of Victory with that deity, the damage dealt increases by 7 (2d6). Additionally, the godshaper can choose another godshaper it can see, allowing that godshaper to immediately use its reaction to use its Dreams of Victory. Bonus Actions Reveal Dreamscape. Until the end of the godshaper’s next turn, each creature within 30 feet of it has truesight out to 60 feet. Shape Deity (1/Day). The godshaper imagines a deity and shapes it from ectoplasm. The deity appears in an unoccupied space the kuo-toa can see within 30 feet of it. The deity’s size is Medium, and it has AC 15, 50 hit points, and resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. The deity remains for 1 minute, until it is reduced to 0 hit points, or until no friendly godshaper can see it. The godshaper can’t use this ability if it can see another friendly godshaper’s deity.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Kuo-toa)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 21558
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

