# Kuo-toa Leviathan

**description**: It is said that once in every generation, a kuo-toa is born that is favored by Blipdoolpoolp herself. Known as a leviathan, this kuo-toa would grow beyond its natural size. Its adult form is a giant 20-foot long bestial kuo-toa with an oversized mouth filled with rows of slender, sharp teeth and a long, eel-like tail. It is subservient to the priest-king and its archpriests. Traits Amphibious. The kuo-toa can breathe air and water. Otherworldly Perception. The kuo-toa can sense the presence of any creature within 30 feet of it that is invisible or on the Ethereal Plane. It can pinpoint such a creature that is moving. Slippery. The kuo-toa has advantage on ability checks and saving throws made to escape a grapple. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the kuo-toa has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The kuo-toa makes three melee attacks: one with its Bite and two with its Claw. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) piercing damage and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the creature is restrained. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15). Until the grapple ends, the creature is restrained. The kuo-toa has two claws, each of which can grapple only one target. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target not grappled by the kuo-toa. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the creature fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it is also stunned until the end of its next turn. Swallow. The kuo-toa makes a Bite attack against a Large or smaller creature it is grappling. If the attack hits, the creature is swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the kuo-toa, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the kuo-toa's turns. The kuo-toa can have only one creature swallowed at a time. If the kuo-toa takes 15 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the kuo-toa must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate the swallowed creature, which falls prone in a space within 5 feet of the kuo-toa. If the kuo-toa dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 5 feet of movement, exiting prone. Legendary Actions The kuo-toa can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The kuo-toa regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The kuo-toa moves up to half its speed. Claw. The kuo-toa makes a Claw attack. Tail (Costs 2 Actions). The kuo-toa makes a Tail attack. Wave Lash (Costs 3 Actions). The kuo-toa spins violently, whipping its claws and tail and creating a powerful wave of water to crash around it. Each creature within 20 feet of the kuo-toa must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage, pushed horizontally up to 15 feet away and be knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. The kuo-toa must be in water that is at least 15 feet wide and 10 feet deep to use this action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Humanoid (Kuo-toa)
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

