# Kurasatch Udareen Priest

**description**: The ranks of the kurasatch udareen both oversee and support their legions. Members of the all-female orc priesthood include everyone from smiths and crafters to the priests who worship Izrador and can call upon a measure of the Shadow’s power in need. The kurasatch udareen initiates do much of the daily work that keeps the legion running, while the kurasatch udareen priests lead the legions and offer up prayers to the Shadow. Orc Legionaries The orc legionaries are brutal warriors and hardened fighters. Even after 100 years of conquest, they still make up the core of Izrador’s armies. Each orc legionary is well-equipped for war, with a spear, shield, and heavy vardatch. They train to fight in ranks, though they are also dangerous combatants on their own. Typically, orcs deploy in cohorts of roughly 100 legionaries (or 10 spears ). The cohorts fight in rectangular formations, with half their spears forward and half waiting a few yards behind, ready to be thrown into the fight. Some orc legionaries show more independence and aptitude. These orcs may be given composite shortbows and deployed as skirmishers on a cohort’s flanks. There they harry their foes with arrow fire and protect a cohort from flank attacks. Most legion cohorts have one or two spears made up of these legion vanguards, although some legions are known to eschew skirmishers in favor of more muscle on the fighting line. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Traits Blessed of Izrador. When the kurasatch udareen priest or any friendly creature within 30 feet makes an attack roll or a saving throw, that creature can roll 1d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or saving throw. Innate Spellcasting. The kurasatch udareen priest’s spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15). The kurasatch udareen priest can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 1/day each: divination 3/day each: bane, barkskin, elemental weapon Magic Resistance. The kurasatch udareen priest has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The kurasatch udareen priest makes two melee attacks. Blood-Forged Iron Vardatch. Melee Weapon Attack: +7+1d4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10+5) slashing damage. Shadow’s Presence (Recharge 6). The kurasatch udareen priest summons a small measure of Izrador’s presence and focuses it upon their foes. Each creature of their choice within 60 feet must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. Each creature that is maintaining concentration on a spell makes the saving throw with disadvantage. If the creature fails, it suffers 11 (2d10) psychic damage, and any spells it is concentrating on end.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (orc)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

