# Kurson General

**description**: The kurson is a formidable-looking devil that bears the lower body a monstrous cave bear and the head of a fearsome-looking maned lion. Bull horns extend from its forehead while its menacing eyes glow fiery red. Notably, where its left arm should be, a giant viper extends from its socket, serving as a deadly appendage. Deadly Warrior. The kurson relies primarily on its immense strength in combat, using powerful claws and its highly venomous snake. When facing hordes of enemies or requiring a tactical advantage, the kurson uses its war horn. Unleashing a thundering blast, the war horn can deafen and stun enemies, disrupting their formations while also rallying the kurson's own troops. Hell's General. Due to the kurson's domineering character, it is often serves as a commander of Hell's legions. Those that excel and prove themselves worthy eventually become generals, only answering to pit fiends and archdevils. One such kurson, the first of its name, has been awarded the title of Great King by Asmodeus, and now serves as one of his generals. Traits Magic Resistance. The kurson has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. War Leader. The kurson's allies that can see and hear the kurson have advantage on attack rolls while within 20 feet of the kurson, provided it isn’t frightened or incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The kurson makes three Claw attacks and one Bite attack. Alternatively, it can make two Infernal Bolt attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is paralyzed. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Infernal Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) fire damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the kurson's next turn. War Horn (Recharge 5–6). The kurson blows his horn, emitting a thunderous blast in a 60-foot cone that is audible 600 feet away. Each creature in the cone must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 36 (8d8) thunder damage, is deafened for 1 minute, and stunned until the end of the kurson's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened or stunned. In addition, each allied devil within 60 feet of the kurson and can hear the kurson has advantage to saving throws made against being charmed and frightened for 1 minute. Bonus Actions Command. The kurson targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the kurson, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack or move up to its speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

