# Kyton, Aloadai

**description**: Aloadai kytons act as commanders for lesser kytons, particularly terpsikhore. The aloadai are designed to break enemy bodies and spirits while psychically preserving their forces. In addition, the long-distance communication abilities of aloadai are useful for maintaining contact with remote kyton facilities; most kyton outposts are commanded by a lone aloadai that acts as a waypoint for transmissions. While their mind-reading abilities make them natural interrogators, they only perform this duty if no alternative exists; kyton philosophy holds that a truth extracted through torture is “purer” than one simply pulled from the mind like a tooth from a socket. An aloadai is roughly 12 feet tall and weighs about 1,500 pounds. Anti-Paragons. The genesis of the Aloadai comes from the darkest atrocities of the Century War in the Aethera system. The ruling kytons were not blind to the existence of the Hierarchy’s Paragon Project—in fact, they were at the root of that monstrous plot—and the aloadai are the resultant fruit of that grisly labor. As the Century War dragged on, enigmatic and ephemeral kytons slithered into the dreams of high-ranking Hierarchy officials, planting nightmares of erahthi dominion in the guise of prophetic dreams. This expertly-placed fear allowed for slips in morality as the inhumane experiments began and, inevitably, bore fruit. Paragon project researchers were aided in their work by a number of disguized kytons. The majority took the guise of disposal crew, taking advantage of the myopic focus of the researchers to spirit away numerous “failures” to the Shadow. There, kytons performed experiments of their own—surgeries and infections inspired by humankind’s unique capacity for cruelty. Within only a few short years, the first aloadai kyton tore itself from a womb of chains. Gestalt Duality. An aloadai is a gestalt of two infused, twisted into a kyton vision of perfection. The subject that will become the brutish lower body is pumped full of muscle-bloating mutagen and kyton ichor; as its bulk expands, it is wrapped and woven around a mechanical endoskeleton. The other subject’s superfluous flesh is cut away to be recycled elsewhere, while its ribs are peeled apart and intertwined with those of their giant twin. Its head is injected with alchemical fluids that boost psychic ability, causing it to swell to grotesque proportions. Finally, a blend of liquid aetherite and shadow-stuff suffuses the gestalt’s unified flesh, bonding the two minds. The engorgement of an aloadai’s brain gives it terrifying mental powers. In addition to a host of psychic attacks, the aloadai generates a powerful protective shield around itself and nearby kytons. It constantly scans the surrounding area for the thoughts of other creatures, using this to pinpoint both minions and intruders. Finally, when two aloadai draw within sensory range of each other, their mental processes interlink, allowing them to act and fight in perfect synchronicity. Electrical Sensitivity. For all their power, the aloadai possess a critical weakness. Powerful electrical attacks cause the aetherite suffusing their bodies to destabilize, damaging sensitive internal systems and disrupting their regenerative flesh. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:"Body Copy Indent"; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyIndent, li.BodyCopyIndent, div.BodyCopyIndent {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent Char"; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.AetheraBodyTextIndented, li.AetheraBodyTextIndented, div.AetheraBodyTextIndented {mso-style-name:"Aethera Body Text Indented"; mso-style-update:auto; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}span.BodyCopyIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

