# Ladon

**description**: Deep within the dangerous seas there exists an island, within which rests a garden protected by immortal nymphs. Within this garden a beautiful tree from which golden apples that grant immortality stands, a wedding gift from Zeus to Hera. Her only cherished treasure from their marriage, some people would say. And just like any precious treasure, it is protected. This garden is named after the caretakers of the tree, the Hesperides. Immortal nymphs and daughters of Atlas, the Titan. They oversee the tree’s protection alongside their fellow chosen of Hera, Ladon. A wingless dragon, with ten long serpentine heads that lives curled up at the base of the tree, ever watchful. It is a massive entity, easily rivaling ancient chromatic or metallic dragons and other such cataclysmic beasts. It’s body is thick and massive, with a heavy tail that could uproot trees by accident. And a few close encounters with this dragon have made it known that standing too close to it is dangerous, for its very breath smells like deadly acid, not to mention its poisonous bite. It is yet another creature that Heracles faced during his years of travel performing the labors he was tasked with, but this is the only enemy he chose to avoid as a demigod. Instead he resorted to trickery to obtain the apples, getting Atlas to obtain them for him. Not a lot of details are known about this circumstance, but what is known is that Heracles held the weight of the sky as part of his deal with the Titan, then managed to trick him back into his position as holder of the sky. But the hanging silence is broken by the roar of thunder. The sky darkens, the clouds above suddenly flash blue. A pillar of lightning, not a bolt, crashes into the bronze giant, blowing away everyone close to it. Blue light shines in Talos' eyes as it stands up, lightning flowing all over its body before it grabs its spear, engulfing it in the power of Zeus. Fighting Talos as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 25 creatures in one encounter. Award a party an additional 75,000 XP (150,000 XP total) for defeating it after its Guardian's Resolve activates. Ladon remains one of the few creatures of old to have never been slain. Champion of Hera. As a protector of the sacred tree Ladon is blessed by Hera, granting him even greater power. He is not subservient to anyone but Hera and will protect the tree against anyone or anything else, however he markedly has a friendly bond with the Hesperides. Ladon as a Mythic Encounter Ladon is an undefeated monster of the old world. If you wish to make an encounter with this dragon truly legendary, Ladon might use his Guardian of the Garden trait. When this happens, Hera's grace empowers Ladon just as he appears to be on death's door. When this happens, Ladon can choose one of his mythic actions when he uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when the Ladon uses his Guardian's Resolve trait: The Guardian of the Garden collapses The multi-headed dragon lets out a pained grunt before his heads start falling to the ground, overwhelmed by the exhaustion. Bright golden rays of light illuminate the defeated beast, before his wounds begin to steam and heal. A golden halo surrounds his form, shielding it from harm. The now revitalized heads open their eyes, full of vigor and fury for those who injured him so. Fighting Ladon as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 24 creatures in one encounter. Award a party an additional 62,000 XP (124,000 XP total) for defeating him after his Guardian of the Garden trait activates. Ladon's Den - The Tree of Golden Apples At the very center of a vast and beautiful garden resides a rather sizable tree. From its branches beautiful and otherworldly golden apples grow, granting those who consume them immortality. This is the gift from the King of Olympus to his wife during their wedding, long before the dawn of the mortal races. Taking from this tree means stealing from Hera herself. A task only fit for the brave or the foolish. Dragons Dragons are quite rare amongst the legends surrounding the Olympians and their subjects. Many of them live in the vast sea and have been the adversaries of heroes and adventurers. However, few of their kind remain, and those that do are undefeated legends. Traits Guardian of the Garden (Recharges after a short or long Rest). If Ladon is reduced to 0 hit points, he doesn't die or fall unconscious. Instead, he regains 300 hit points. In addition, Hera's blessing shields the protector of her garden, granting him 100 temporary hit points, recharging his breath weapon and regaining any expended uses of Legendary Resistance. Additionally, Ladon can now use the options in the “Mythic Actions” section for 1 hour. Award a party an additional 62,000 XP (124,000 XP total) for defeating Ladon after his Guardian of the Garden activates. Legendary Resistance (3/day). If Ladon fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Amphibious. Ladon can breathe air and water. Magic Resistance. Ladon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Siege Monster. Ladon deals double damage to objects and structures. Multiple Heads. Ladon has ten heads which give him advantage on saving throws against being blinded, deafened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. These heads cannot be destroyed, unlike a Hydra's. Reactive Heads. For each head Ladon has beyond one, he gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Wakeful. While Ladon sleeps, at least one of his heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. Ladon uses his frightening presence and then makes 5 attacks. It can be any combination of bite or spit attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 9 (3d6) poison damage. Spit. Ranged Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 30/60ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) acid damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Ladon's choice that is within 120 feet of him and aware of him must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Ladon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Acid Gas Breath (Recharge 4-6). Ladon exhales toxic gas in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 23 Constitution saving throw, taking 71 (20d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions Ladon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Ladon regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. Ladon can move up to his speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. Ladon can make either a bite or spit attack. Mythic Actions If Ladon’s Guardian of the Garden trait has activated in the last hour, it can use the options below as legendary actions. Grab (costs 2 Actions). Ladon's heads snatch up foes around him. Each creature within 15 feet of Ladon must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6 + 8) piercing damage and be grappled. Ladon can then move up to half his speed. While grappled in this way, Ladon has advantage on attacks against creatures in his head's jaws. Ladon can grapple five creatures at once. Deep Breath (costs 2 Actions). Ladon recharges his breath weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

