# Laeral Silverhand

**description**: Anamanué Laeral Silverhand was born in the Year of the Cowl (765 DR), the fifth of seven daughters of the goddess Mystra. Each of the Seven Sisters is a powerful and ageless beauty with a penchant for arcane magic. A few years ago, Dagult Neverember was ousted as Open Lord of Waterdeep. Laeral reluctantly stepped into the vacancy at the request of the Masked Lords, and has served as Waterdeep’s Open Lord ever since. Initially overwhelmed by the demands of the nobles and guildmasters, she has settled nicely into her new role. She uses her magic sparingly and relics on trusted advisors and deputies. Traits Special Equipment. Laeral wears a white robe of the archmagi (accounted for in her statistics). She wields a flame tongue longsword . Magic Resistance. While wearing her robe of the archmagi , Laeral has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. Laeral is a 19th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 21, +13 to hit with spell attacks). Laeral has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): light, mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation, ray of frost 1st level (at will): detect magic, disguise self, magic missile, shield 2nd level (at will): detect thoughts, invisibility, misty step 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, fly, sending, tongues 4th level (3 slots): banishment, greater invisibility, Otiluke’s resilient sphere 5th level (3 slots): cone of cold, geas, Rary’s telepathic bond 6th level (2 slots): globe of invulnerability, mass suggestion 7th level (1 slot): prismatic spray, teleport 8th level (1 slot): feeblemind, power word stun 9th level (1 slot): time stop Actions Multiattack. Laeral makes three attacks with her silver hair and flame tongue longsword , in any combination. She can cast one of her cantrips or 1st-level spells before or after making these attacks. Silver Hair. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) force damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Flame Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage, or 6 (1d10 + 1) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage when used with two hands. Spellfire (Recharges after a Long Rest). Magical, heatless, silver fire harmlessly erupts from Laeral and surrounds her until she is incapacitated or until she uses an action to quench it. She gains one of the following benefits of her choice, which lasts until the silver fire ends: She can breathe underwater. She can survive without food and water. She is immune to magic that would ascertain her thoughts, truthfulness, alignment, or creature type. She gains resistance to cold damage, and she is unharmed by temperatures as low as −50 degrees Fahrenheit. While the silver fire is present, she has the following additional action options: Cast the cure wounds spell. The target regains 1d8 + 5 hit points. After Laeral takes this action, roll a d6. On a roll of 1, the silver fire disappears. Cast the revivify spell without material components. After Laeral takes this action, roll a d6. On a roll of 1–2, the silver fire disappears. Release a 60-foot line of silver fire that is 5 feet wide or a 30-foot cone of silver fire. Objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried take 26 (4d12) fire damage. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 26 (4d12) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After Laeral takes this action, roll a d6. On a roll of 1–3, the silver fire disappears.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

