# Lakrem

**description**: Lakrem's story doesn't start in Barovia, but—to hear him tell it—everything else before Barovia was unimportant. He was born to devout followers of Lathander and given over to the Dawnbringers when he was a young boy to be trained and raised to serve the Lathanderian faith once his divine nature—borne of latent celestial heritage—manifested. When he finally reached adulthood, Lakrem was called to undertake a dangerous mission: rid Barovia of the evil plaguing the land. Many had been called to do this, and none had returned. Lakren felt, as a Chosen of the Dawnbringer, that he would be the one to end the eternal darkness in Barovia. Traits Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put you to sleep. Innate Spellcasting. Your innate spellcasting ability is Charisma. You can innately cast the following spells: At will: dancing lights Safe Haven. You have access to a secret network of supporters and operatives who can provide assistance on your adventures. You know a set of secret signs and passwords you can use to identify such operatives, who can provide you with access to a hidden safe house, free room and board, or assistance in finding information. These agents never risk their lives for you or risk revealing their true identities. Sunlight Sensitivity . You have disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, or whatever you are trying to perceive is in direct sunlight. Trance . You don't need to sleep. Instead, you meditate deeply, remaining semiconscious, for 4 hours a day. After resting in this way, you gain the same benefit that a human does from 8 hours of sleep. Actions Attack . You can attack when you take this action, using the following: Javelin . Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack : +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit : 1d6 + 2 piercing damage. Morningstar . Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8 + 2 piercing damage. Divine Sense (2; Recharges After a Long Rest). As an action, you can open your awareness to detect strong evil and powerful good. Until the end of your next turn, you know the location of any Celestial, Fiend, or Undead within 60 feet of you that is not behind total cover. You know the type of any being whose presence you sense, but not its identity. Within the same radius, you also detect the presence of any place or object that has been consecrated or desecrated, as with the hallow spell. Healing Hands (Recharges After a Long Rest). As an action, you can touch a creature and cause it to regain 1 hit point. Lay on Hands (Recharges After a Long Rest). You have a pool of healing with which you can restore up to 5 hit points. You touch a creature and draw power from the pool to restore a number of hit points to that creature. up to the maximum amount remaining in your pool. Alternatively, you can expend 5 hit points from your pool of healing to cure the target of one disease or neutralize one poison affecting it. You can cure multiple diseases and neutralize multiple poisons with a single use of Lay on Hands, expending hit points separately for each one. This feature has no effect on Undead and Constructs.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Aasimar, Elf)
- Expansion: 24690

**publisher**: Gnome Made Games

**book**: An Elf and an Orc Had A Little Baby

