# Lamia Queen

**description**: The lamia queen, also sometimes called the lamia matriarch, is a powerful and incredibly beautiful lamia noble. Rare are those who behold her face and are not instantly lovestruck. She is the supreme ruler of all lamia kind. Treated like a goddess by her subjects, she is a devious, narcissistic, and cunning master manipulator. She constantly schemes of foul plots aimed to further her control over the civilized lands around her lair. She is never without her personal bodyguards. Traits Enthralling Gaze. When a creature that can see the lamia's eyes starts its turn within 30 feet of the lamia, the lamia can force it to make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw if the lamia isn't incapacitated and can see the creature. On a failed save, the creature is charmed by the lamia until the start of its next turn. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it has disadvantage on attack rolls against the lamia until the start of its next turn. If the creature looks at the lamia in the meantime, it must immediately make the saving throw. Greater Spell Penetration. When the lamia casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the lamia fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Sorcery Points. The lamia has 13 sorcery points. She can spend 1 or more sorcery points to gain one of the following benefits: Heightened Spell: When the lamia casts a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist the spell's effects, the lamia can spend 3 sorcery points to give one target of the spell disadvantage on her first saving throw against the spell. Quickened Spell: When the lamia casts a spell that has a casting time of 1 action, it can spend 2 sorcery points to change the casting time to 1 bonus action for this casting. Magic Resistance. The lamia has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The lamia makes three attacks: two with its Intoxicating Strike and one to Constrict. Intoxicating Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) psychic damage, and the target is magically cursed for 1 hour. Until the curse ends, the target has disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws and all ability checks. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the lamia can't use Constrict on another target. Spellcasting. The lamia casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks): At will: fire bolt (3d10), mage hand, major image, minor illusion 2/day each: dimension door, fireball, hold person (up to two targets), mirror image, scrying (as an action), suggestion 1/day: chain lightning, finger of death, geas (as an action) Change Shape. The lamia magically transforms into a Small or Medium humanoid or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the lamia is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Legendary Actions The lamia can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The lamia regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The lamia makes uses its Intoxicating Strike or Constrict. Command Thrall. One creature charmed by the lamia that she can see must use its reaction to move up to its speed as she directs or to make a weapon attack against a target that she designates. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The lamia uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

