# Lauma

**description**: Forest Hag Variant Lauma, the moping matriarch of the woods, was once a kindly old spinster who lived in a lonely cottage in the forest. Unable to have children of her own, she would find and take care of children lost in the woods. She weaved clothes for them, comforted them, and protected them while awaiting the return of their parents. She would also take in orphan children and raise them as her own. Over time, her kind, motherly gestures were seen as malicious and greedy, and husbands and widowers accused Lauma of stealing the children. The bitter, hateful words leeched out all of her beauty and grace, reducing her to a withered hag burdened by the clothes, dolls, and playthings of the children's she's "protected." Now in the forest deep she weaves and waits, beckoning and beguiling children and child-sized travelers, promising to take them in and help them find their missing family, with the intent of keeping them for herself. Surely, she would make a better mother than the ones careless enough to lose their children in the forest. And so the lost will stay with her, tucked away in the misty, broken woods, with their blankets and their toys and the rotting remains of the other children and small adventurers she has abducted. Are You Lost, Child? Lauma targets smaller adventurers and seeks not to hurt them; only the ensnare them and keep them with her forever. She may try to tempt them with toys, gifts, soup, and shelter in her cottage full of child skeletons and their belongings. She will assume a large adventurer is trying to lead the smaller one away from her if they attempt to leave after stumbling upon her or her cottage. She has advantage on all perception checks involving small party members like gnomes, halflings, or goblins. If a small party member deals more than 15 points of damage to her, she will turn on them and attack them like any normal enemy. Traits Innate Spellcasting: Charisma (spell save DC 13). She can cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: Dancing Lights, Fog Cloud, Suggestion, Vicious Mockery Actions Multiattack Lauma makes 3 attacks: one with her claw (range 5 ft.), two with clawlike roots or branches that burrow and burst out of the ground (range 60 ft.). Claws (Melee Weapon Attack) +8 to hit, one target, reach 5 ft. (self) or up to 60 ft. (branches). Hit: 12 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage. Mother's Embrace (Melee Weapon Attack) +8 to hit, one target, reach 30 ft. Hit: 20 (5d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and the target is grappled by sharp, thorny tree branches if it is a Large creature or smaller (escape DC 16). Until the grapple ends, Large or Medium creatures take 14 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage at the start of Lauma's turn. Small creatures take no extra damage while grappled, but must roll with disadvantage to escape. Lauma cannot use her multiattack strikes until the grapple is broken. Mother's Song Lauma sings a sorrowful lullaby that can be heard up to 60 ft. away; the song of a mother looking for her lost child. Each humanoid creature within range that can hear Lauma that also has a dead parental figure or a dead child must succeed a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or fall into a melancholic trance. The entranced cannot take any actions or reactions and their movement is zero until the end of Lauma's next turn. Bramble Trap Thorny roots ripple and burst out around Lauma in a 20 ft. radius. The ground within the radius becomes difficult terrain for the next three turns.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 20627
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Scribemind

**book**: Uncaged Volume 1

