# Least Cindershadow

**description**: Cindershadows lurk in the crackling of a fire, the whoosh of the flames that light your torch, and the popping of the logs and sticks in your campfire. Legends and rumors say that if you look hard enough inside the flames, you might be able to see one before it strikes. Appearance. Cindershadows have a skeletal system of charcoal-black bones beneath a flaming body, black beady eyes, and claws that extend in pointed flames once it reveals itself. Cindershadows can form in any flame, no matter the size, and can grow up to twice the size of the fire they formed from. The largest cindershadows cannot hide and do not try to. Moving quickly and causing only destruction in their path, larger cindershadows are sometimes mistaken for fire elementals. Unlike fire elementals, however, water does not harm a cindershadow though it does quench its fires temporarily if exposed in sufficient quantities. From Ashes, Life. Commonly born from the smallest particle of ash left in the wake of a felled cindershadow, new cindershadows can be born in any fire that the ash can reach. Unknown to many, cindershadows can also be born from the death of a person whose heart is filled with pure hatred. Anything on their person at their time of death is a seedling for a new flame. Fiery Motives. Once a cindershadow is born, it must feed the flames it calls home. For this reason, cindershadows can be most commonly found near villages or towns for easier access to fuel once it begins to grow. Kindling for this creature can be anything that will burn, but it prefers to fuel itself on kindling that will cause the most devastation. Once the kindling is devoured, the creature grows. The need to feed gives the cindershadow an urge to let the fire grow and spread. The size of the fire allows the cindershadow within it to grow to unending heights. Left unchecked, a large cindershadow could devour entire villages and grow to nearly 20 feet tall. Tactics. A cindershadow aims to devour as many creatures and objects as possible, using its Burning Bones and Burning Rake to weaken creatures before devouring them. The smaller the cindershadow, the more it focuses on consuming objects so that it can quickly grow into a larger threat. Smaller cindershadows also prefer to wait in flames to catch their prey off-guard, while larger ones charge in and Devour as much as they can. Traits Burning Bones. At the start of the cindershadow’s turn, each creature within 5 feet of it takes 3 (1d6) fire damage and flammable objects and materials that aren't carried or worn catch fire. The cindershadow sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light in a 20-foot radius. Fiery Camouflage. The cindershadow is invisible while it remains motionless in a flame of its size or larger. While hidden in this way, the cindershadow deals no damage with its Burning Bones trait. Water Weakness. If the cindershadow is soaked with at least 20 gallons of water, it can’t deal fire damage for 1d4 rounds. Actions Burning Rake. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) slashing damage, plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Devour. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature or flammable object grappled by the cindershadow. Hit: 10 (3d6) fire damage, and the creature or object is swallowed by the cindershadow if it is of size small or smaller. A swallowed creature or object takes 3 (1d6) fire damage at the start of each of its turns and is restrained. Whenever a swallowed creature dies or a swallowed object is destroyed, the cindershadow gains 5 temporary hit points and a point of “Devouring Flame”. When it has 10 points of Devouring Flame, it transforms into a Lesser Cindershadow (retaining any damage or Injuries it currently suffers from) and loses all points of Devouring Flame. The cindershadow can’t use this ability, and any swallowed creatures or objects are freed, if it can’t deal fire damage. The cindershadow can only have one creature or object swallowed at a time.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

