# Legendary Toximancer

**description**: A toximancer spends most of its life studying and mastering the volatile properties of acid and toxins. This knowledge enables a toximancer to channel and shape these highly dangerous chemicals with ease. Because of its constant exposure to it throughout its life, a toximancer becomes naturally resistant to acid and poisons. An encounter with a toximancer can quickly turn deadly. A Legendary Toximancer's Lair A toximancer's lair is usually an isolated tower or well-hidden dungeon located near places that are rich with natural minerals and gasses, such as caves, forests, swamps, and volcanic regions. A legendary toximancer encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the toximancer can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the toximancer can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The toximancer magically sprays toxic, hallucinogenic vapors in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 7 (2d6) acid damage and 7 (2d6) poison damage and becomes poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round. A poisoned creature suffers the effect of the confusion spell. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. The toximancer targets one creature it can see within 120 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 17 (5d6) poison damage and becomes poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Four 10-foot radius sections on the ground become 1-foot deep pools of acid. The area becomes difficult terrain for the duration. When a creature moves into or within the area, it takes 3 (1d6) acid damage for every 5 feet it travels. The pools of acid last until the toximancer uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the toximancer dies. Creatures within the pool when the effect ends return to the top of the ground unharmed. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the toximancer fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The toximancer uses Vile Strike three times. Vile Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) acid damage and 4 (1d8) poison damage and the target is poisoned until the end of the toximancer's next turn. Vitriolic Rain (Recharge 5–6). Acid rains down on a 30-foot-radius, 30-foot-high cylinder centered on a point the toximancer can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 24 (7d6) acid damage and another 14 (4d6) acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn. Fell Wall (1/Day). A wall made up of deadly, noxious gasses appears within 120 feet of the toximancer. The area of the wall consists of up to ten 10-foot cubes, which the toximancer can arrange as it wishes. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. The wall is opaque and lasts for 1 minute, until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it, or until the toximancer dies or is incapacitated. Creatures within the wall can't breathe. When the wall appears, each creature within its area takes 10 (3d6) acid damage and must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is poisoned until the start of its next turn. A poisoned creature is stunned. Creatures that are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. A creature must immediately make the same saving throw when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. Spellcasting. The toximancer casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks): At will: acid splash (4d6), dancing lights, mage hand, prestidigitation 3/day each: acid arrow (4th level), grease, stinking cloud 1/day each: cloudkill, contagion, mage armor Reactions Caustic Spray (3/Day). When a creature moves within 10 feet of the toximancer, the toximancer magically sprays it with nocuous vapors. Unless the creature is immune to poison, the creature takes 16 (3d10) poison damage and must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated until the end of the toximancer's next turn. Legendary Actions The toximancer can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The toximancer regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Vile Strike. The toximancer uses Vile Strike. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The toximancer uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

