# Legendary Gloom Knight

**description**: While most fallen paladins were corrupted by powerful fiends, a few fallen paladins were led astray by insidious beings from the spirit realms. While not undead, these gloom knights turn from the light and now embrace the enigma and dread that darkness brings. They operate only at night and in the shadows, rarely revealing themselves unless it is to their advantage. Spectral Lords. Gloom knights often serve as powerful agents of liches and sinister gods that rule the Ethereal Plane, the Negative Plane, and the Realm of Shadows. Because of their affinity to these ghostly planes, they become conduits to the Material Plane, enabling noncorporeal undead to pass through and serve as the gloom knights' minions. In addition, gloom knights can easily traverse back and forth to the Ethereal Plane. Ghostly Warriors. During combat, gloom knights can tap negative energy, allowing them to weave necrotic and shadow magic. Their supernatural gaze can render a creature helpless, and their spectral swords can temporarily prevent wounds from healing. As gloom knights grow in power, they can create dangerous shadow rifts where negative energy seeps out and harm living things. A Legendary Gloom Knight's Lair The lair of a gloom knight is usually a keep or ruins that is located in a place of perpetual darkness. Thus, its lair is usually underground, deep within a thick, dismal forest where sunlight can't penetrate, or in a shadowy plane. Noncorporeal undead prowl and guard the lair from intruders. A legendary gloom knight encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 20 (25,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the gloom knight can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the gloom knight can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The gloom knight casts the darkness spell three times, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. The gloom knight targets different areas with the spell. The gloom knight doesn’t need to concentrate on the spells, which end on initiative count 20 of the next round. The gloom knight targets up to 3 creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes vulnerable to necrotic damage until the end of the gloom knight's next turn. The gloom knight teleports to an unoccupied space within 60 feet of it, provided that both the space it’s teleporting from and its destination are in dim light or darkness. The destination need not be within line of sight. Traits Spectral Leader. The gloom knight’s noncorporeal Undead allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against any effect that turns undead while within 20 feet of the gloom knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the gloom knight fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The gloom knight makes three Spectral Greatsword attacks. It can use Haunting Gaze in place of one Spectral Greatsword attack. Alternatively, it can make one Spectral Greatsword attack and use Spellcasting. Spectral Greatsword. Melee Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d12 + 6) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points until the end of the gloom knight's next turn. Haunting Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d8) necrotic damage plus 13 (3d8) psychic damage and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the gloom knight's next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated. Shadow Rifts (Recharge 6). The gloom knight opens momentary dimensional rifts to the Negative Plane at three different points within 60 feet of it. Each rift is a 10-foot-radius sphere. Each creature that isn't a Construct or Undead in the rifts must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature in the area of more than one dimensional rift is affected only once. In addition, 1d2 wraiths and 1d8 shadows appear in unoccupied spaces in any of the spheres. They act as the gloom knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the gloom knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the gloom knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Undead (1/Day). The gloom knight summons a number of banshees , ghosts , shadows , specters , and wraiths whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 150. A summoned undead appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the gloom knight and acts as an ally of the gloom knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the gloom knight dies, or until the gloom knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The gloom knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): 2/day each: blight, cone of cold, hold person, vampiric touch 1/day each: darkness, fly, protection from evil and good Bonus Actions Aura of Gloom. The gloom knight activates or deactivates this aura. While active, a creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the gloom knight must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, unless the gloom knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target takes 14 (4d6) necrotic damage and has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Constructs and Undead ignore this effect. Etherealness. The gloom knight magically shifts from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can't affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Legendary Actions The gloom knight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The gloom knight regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Command Undead. The gloom knight targets an Undead ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the gloom knight, the target can use its reaction to make one melee weapon attack or move up to half its speed. Spectral Shift. The gloom knight becomes temporarily noncorporeal and flies up to 30 feet through other creatures and objects. This movement does not provoke opportunity attacks. If the gloom knight ends its turn in another creature’s space or inside an object, it is shunted to the last unoccupied space it occupied, and takes 4 (1d8) force damage. Ghostly Strike (Costs 2 Actions). The gloom knight makes a Spectral Greatsword attack or uses Haunting Gaze. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The gloom knight uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

