# Legendary Pestilence Druid

**description**: While most druids revere and draw their power from nature itself, the pestilence druid worships the natural urge of nature to consume. In order to maintain balance between civilized folk and nature, the pestilence druid must devour those that oppose or threaten the natural world. Plaguebringer. The spells and powers of a pestilence druid are oriented on famine, plagues, and voracious vermin such as gnats, rats, locusts, or other parasitic pests. These creatures typically swarm around and follow the pestilence druid, seemingly awaiting its command. The pestilence druid is able to magically implant eggs into a creature’s body that hatch into tiny parasitic bugs that eat their host alive. When facing groups of enemies, a pestilence druid can exhale a cloud of venomous insects that swarm and bite its targets. The most powerful pestilence druids can temporarily grow two pairs of wings that enable it to fly a short distance and can summon and command a deadly swarm of poisonous bugs that can lay waste to a town in minutes. Mysterious Hermits. Because of its very nature and the company it keeps, a pestilence druid is usually feared and shunned by society and often treated as an outcast. A few are revered and serve as tribal shamans or witch doctors. Most pestilence druids avoid civilized folk while evil ones seek them out as food for its swarm to consume. A Legendary Pestilence Druid's Lair A legendary pestilence druid makes its lair in desolated areas such as arid deserts, mosquito-infested swamps, and wastelands. A legendary pestilence druid encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 15 (13,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the druid can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the druid can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The druid summons 2d4 swarms of insects that appear within 120 feet of it. The swarms of insects act as allies of the druid and obey its commands. The swarms of insects act right after the druid on the same initiative count and fight until they're destroyed. They remain for 1 minute, until they or the druid dies, or until the druid dismisses them as a bonus action. The druid spews a large glob of sticky, toxic mucus at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature within 5 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained. A restrained creature is poisoned. A creature can use an action to make a DC 17 Strength check to free the restrained creature. The druid targets up to three creatures it can see within 120 feet of it. Tiny swarms of stinging insects appear above the head of each target and attack their eyes. Each target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage and is blinded until the end of the druid's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the druid fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The druid makes two Quarterstaff attacks or uses Infest twice. Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit (+10 to hit with shillelagh), reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage, 5 (1d8 + 1) bludgeoning damage if wielded with two hands, or 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage with shillelagh, plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Infest . The druid magically implants parasitic bug eggs in one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw against disease. On a failed save, the eggs hatch and the parasitic bugs begin to eat the target from the inside out. Immediately on this turn and at the start of each of the target's turns, the target takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and is poisoned. While poisoned, the target is incapacitated. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. If an infested target is targeted by an effect that cures disease, dispels magic, or removes a curse, all the bugs infesting it wither away. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Breath of Pestilence (Recharge 5–6). The druid exhales a cloud of locusts, mites, fleas, and other venomous parasites to appear momentarily in a 30-foot cube originating from the druid. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 21 (6d6) piercing damage plus 21 (6d6) necrotic damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Creeping Doom (1/Day). Swarming, biting venomous insects magically fill a 40-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the druid can see within 120 feet of it. The sphere spreads around corners. The sphere remains for 1 minute, until the druid dies, or until the druid dismisses it as an action. The sphere's area is lightly obscured and is difficult terrain. When the area appears, each creature in it must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 27 (5d10) piercing damage and 27 (5d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this saving throw when it enters the sphere's area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. Spellcasting . The druid casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: druidcraft, poison spray (4d12) 2/day each: blight, entangle, hold person, insect plague, speak with animals 1/day each: giant insect, harm, hold person (4 targets), shapechange, spike growth Bonus Action Shillelagh. The druid casts shillelagh using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. Wings (Recharge 5–6). The druid magically grows a temporary pair of giant locust-like wings and gains a flying speed of 40 feet. The wings last for 1 minute. When the effect ends, the druid falls if it is still aloft, unless it can stop the fall. Reactions Acid Bombard (3/Day). When an enemy creature the druid can see moves within 15 feet of the druid, the druid can discharge a vile, noxious gas in a 15-foot cone. The triggering enemy creature must be in that area. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 14 (4d6) acid damage and is poisoned until the end of the druid's next turn. A poisoned creature is incapacitated. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Legendary Actions The druid can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The druid regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Staff. The druid attacks with its Quarterstaff. Infest. The druid uses Infest. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The druid uses Spellcasting. Pestilence (Costs 3 Actions). The druid targets a creature within 60 feet of it that is currently poisoned by Infest. The target takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage and 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. Each creature within 15 feet of the target is immediately subjected to the druid's Infest attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

