# Legendary Dread Wraith

**description**: Legendary dread wraiths come from the restless spirits of once powerful, tyrannical kings. These insane, evil, and malevolent spirits try to capture their former glory and rebuild armies of undead to take back what was once theirs, vowing revenge on the descendants of all those that brought about their downfall. A Legendary Dread Wraith's Lair A legendary dread wraith haunts the same gloomy and sinister places lesser wraiths do, but is heavily patrolled by other incorporeal undead such as banshees, shadows, specters, and wraiths. A legendary dread wraith encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the legendary dread wraith can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the legendary dread wraith can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The dread wraith magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. The dread wraith summons a wraith that appears within 60 feet of it. The wraith obeys its telepathic commands, which can reach anywhere in the lair. The dread wraith targets up to three frightened creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 13 (3d8) psychic damage and is paralyzed until the end of the dread wraith's next turn. Traits Aura of Dread. A creature hostile to the wraith that starts its turn within 20 feet of the wraith must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw, unless the wraith is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target is frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target can't perform any actions except move up to half its speed. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the wraith's Aura of Dread for the next 24 hours. Detect Life. The wraith can magically sense the presence of living creatures up to 120 feet away. It knows the general direction they're in but not their exact locations. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the wraith fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Incorporeal Movement. The wraith can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if she ends her turn inside an object. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the wraith has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack . The wraith uses Command Undead. It then makes two Greatsword attacks. It can use its Life Drain in place of one Greatsword attack. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 35 (7d8 + 4) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Command Undead. The wraith targets one Undead ally it can see within 30 feet of it and gives it a telepathic command. The target can use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack. Create Wraith. The wraith targets a humanoid within 10 feet of it that has been dead for no longer than 1 minute and died violently. The target's spirit rises as a wraith in the space of its corpse or in the nearest unoccupied space. The wraith is under the wraith's control. The wraith can have no more than seven wraiths under its control at one time. Legendary Actions The wraith can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The wraith regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The wraith moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Attack. The wraith makes one Greatsword attack. Command. The wraith uses Command Undead. Life Drain (Costs 2 Actions). The wraith uses Life Drain. Disrupt Life (Costs 3 Actions). Each living creature within 20 feet of the wraith must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 17 (5d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

