# Legendary Tyrant Cleric

**description**: Tyrant clerics are paranoid, sadistic, and narcissistic sociopaths who worship deities that seek dominion over everything. These villainous clerics obsess about total domination and go to extreme lengths to control and subjugate others in the name of their gods. Tyrant clerics amass loyal followers and surround themselves with henchmen, lackeys, and politically-connected allies who do their every whim. They establish multiple churches and organizations to strengthen their positions and reach, and swiftly eliminate any threats. A Legendary Tyrant Cleric's Lair The lair of a legendary tyrant cleric is often the most secure throne room within their church, keep, or monastery, and is always protected by many guardians and templars, aside from numerous magical defenses and traps. A legendary tyrant cleric encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 19 (22,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the cleric can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the cleric can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The cleric casts command at up to 3 creatures, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (DC 19). The cleric targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage and is frightened of the cleric until the end of the cleric's next turn. The cleric teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. The cleric casts cure wounds (4d8 + 5) on itself, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. Traits Aura of Oppression. Any creature hostile to the cleric that starts its turn within 20 feet of it must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, unless the cleric is incapacitated. Unless the save succeeds, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened, a creature is incapacitated. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the cleric's Aura of Oppression for the next 24 hours. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the cleric fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The cleric makes two Maul attacks. It can use Domineer or Spellcasting in place of one Maul attack. Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) psychic damage. Domineer. The cleric targets up to three visible creatures within 60 feet that are charmed or frightened by it. If the creature is incapacitated, it no longer is incapacitated. The creature must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 9 (2d8) psychic damage and must use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack against a visible target of the cleric's choice. Word of Torment (Recharge 5–6). The cleric utters a baleful word. Each hostile creature within 30 feet of the cleric and can hear the cleric must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) psychic damage and is stunned for 1 minute. A stunned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't stunned. Spellcasting. The cleric casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): 2/day each: banishment, charm person, command, fear, hold person 1/day each: blade barrier, dispel magic, dominate monster, dominate person, flame strike, suggestion, symbol (as an action) Bonus Actions Ruthless Orders. The cleric targets one visible ally within 30 feet of it. The ally takes 4 (1d8) psychic damage and must use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack with advantage on the attack roll. Legendary Actions The cleric can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The cleric regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The cleric moves up to its speed. Maul. The cleric makes a Maul attack. Gaze of Despair. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) psychic damage and the target has disadvantage on all saving throws until the end of the cleric's next turn. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The cleric uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

