# Legendary Scorpicore

**description**: A scorpicore is a rare species of manticore that lives in arid deserts, desolate badlands, and hot-climate wastelands. Like a typical manticore, it has a feral-looking humanoid head, the body and tail of a lion, and the wings of a dragon. Where it differs is with its tail, which resembles that of a scorpion. Aside from using it to sting prey, the scorpicore can also launch venomous spikes like a manticore. Deadly Mates. Scorpicores are usually solitary and are less sociable than their manticore cousins. Females are typically larger than males and only keep the company of their young unless it is mating season. Male scorpicores search for mates and offer gifts in the form of captured prey and treasure. If the offer is accepted, male scorpicores get to mate with the female. However, female scorpicores often kill the males after mating by injecting them with a series of lethal stings, after which the female devours them. Monstrous Mercenaries. Scorpicores rarely keep the company of other creatures. They hate and are highly suspicious of other creatures and only see them as prey. However, if offered a steady supply of food and treasure, scorpicores can be hired as mercenaries by more formidable creatures such as lamias and sphinxes. A Legendary Scorpicore's Lair A legendary scorpicore usually inhabits hidden cavern complexes and decrepit ruins half-buried by sand in desert wastes. It is not uncommon for them to keep minions such as ghourlings, goblinoids, and jackalweres. A legendary scorpicore encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the scorpicore can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the scorpicore can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The scorpicore violently beats its wings, launching and showering sand to everyone around it. Each creature within 20 feet of the scorpicore must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until initiative count 20 on the next round. The scorpicore makes one Tail Spike attack. If it hits, the creature must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be impaled. An impaled creature is restrained until it or another creature spends an action to remove the spike. The scorpicore regrows 4 tail spikes. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the scorpicore fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Tail Spike Regrowth. The scorpicore has twenty-four tail spikes. Used spikes regrow when the scorpicore finishes a long rest. Actions Multiattack. The scorpicore makes one Bite attack, two Claw attacks, and one Sting attack. If Roar is available, it can use Roar in place of its Bite attack. Alternatively, it can make three Tail Spike attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Tail Spike. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 100/200 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. Roar (Recharge 5–6). The scorpicore emits a loud, intimidating roar audible out to 120 feet. Each allied creature within 60 feet of the scorpicore that can hear it gain advantage to saving throws against being charmed and frightened for 1 minute. Each enemy creature within 60 feet of the scorpicore that can hear it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the scorpicore for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this scorpicore’s Roar for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The scorpicore can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The scorpicore regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The scorpicore makes one Claw attack. Spike (Costs 2 Actions). The scorpicore makes one Tail Spike attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The scorpicore beats its wings. Each creature within 15 feet of the scorpicore must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The scorpicore can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

