# Legendary Abyssal Knight

**description**: An abyssal knight was once a powerful paladin. For whatever tragic reason, the paladin lost his sanity and broke his oath. Sensing an opportunity to gain a powerful agent, a demon lord sends whispers to it and plants its seed of corruption. Driven by madness, the fallen champion begins its acts of depravity and eventually becomes an abyssal knight. It is devoid of compassion or empathy and lives only to obey its new master, further its ambitions, and sow chaos and destruction. Champion of Chaos. Gifted with magic and boons by its demon lord patron, the abyssal knight can channel and project abyssal energy with ease. It can also summon several demons that do its bidding. Unlike a commander of a unit, however, it cares not about battle tactics and sees these demons as mere pawns and fodder that it can use to distract its foes or for its consumption. A Legendary Abyssal Knight's Lair A hidden or well-defended keep, temple, or ruins is the preferred lair of an abyssal knight. It is often surrounded by treacherous terrain and guarded by low tier Demons and Undead. A legendary abyssal knight encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 20 (25,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the abyssal knight can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the abyssal knight can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The abyssal knight casts bestow curse , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (DC 19). The abyssal knight doesn’t need to concentrate on the spell, which ends when the abyssal knight dies, is incapacitated, or until it uses this lair action again. The abyssal knight targets up to 3 creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage and has disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws until the end of the abyssal knight's next turn. The abyssal knight teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Traits Abyssal Leader. The abyssal knight’s Demon allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against being charmed or frightened while within 20 feet of the abyssal knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Magic Weapons. The abyssal knight’s weapon attacks are magical. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the abyssal knight fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The abyssal knight makes three Greataxe attacks. It can use Abyssal Gaze in place of one Greataxe attack. Alternatively, it can make one Greataxe attack and use Spellcasting. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d12 + 6) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Abyssal Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) necrotic damage plus 9 (2d8) psychic damage and the target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the abyssal knight's next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is paralyzed Abyssal Shroud (Recharge 6). The abyssal knight opens a momentary dimensional pocket to the Abyss. Shadowy tendrils emerge from the pocket, spreading into a 30-foot radius sphere centered on the abyssal knight. Each creature other than the abyssal knight in that area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) necrotic damage plus 13 (3d8) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Undead and Demons ignore this effect. In addition, 1 barlgura , 1d2 shadow demons , and 1d4 quasits appear in unoccupied spaces in the sphere. They act as the abyssal knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the abyssal knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the abyssal knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Demon (1/Day). The abyssal knight summons 1 hezrou , 1 vrock , 1d2 barlgura , 3d4 quasits , or 4d4 dretches . A summoned Demon appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the abyssal knight and acts as an ally of the abyssal knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the abyssal knight dies, or until the abyssal knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The abyssal knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): 2/day each: blight, crown of madness, false life, vampiric touch 1/day each: cloudkill, hold person, stinking cloud Bonus Actions Aura of Abyssal Madness. The abyssal knight activates or deactivates this aura. While active, a creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the abyssal knight takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage plus 10 (3d6) psychic damage and must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, unless the abyssal knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target suffers the effect of the confusion spell until the start of its next turn. Undead and Demons ignore this effect. Legendary Actions The abyssal knight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The abyssal knight regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Command Demon. The abyssal knight targets a Demon ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the abyssal knight, the target can use its reaction to make one melee weapon attack or move up to half its speed. Consume Demon. The abyssal knight targets one Demon ally it summoned within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target is reduced to 0 hit points and the abyssal knight regains hit points equal to one half the target's maximum hit points. Abyssal Strike (Costs 2 Actions). The abyssal knight makes a Greataxe attack or uses Abyssal Gaze. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The abyssal knight uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

