# Legendary Beast Master

**description**: Beast masters are highly skilled warriors who fight alongside beasts that they have forged a bond with. Because of this, beast masters are often encountered in the wilderness, where they and their beast companions feel more comfortable. Beast masters usually make their living hunting and trapping animals for their meat and pelt. Due to their natural affinity to the outdoors, they are often hired as scouts and trackers. Evil beast masters often stalk intelligent beings for the sake of the hunt and the pleasure they and their beast companions get from the kill. Tag Team. In combat, beast masters bring down their targets by coordinating their attacks with their beasts. They have trained their beast companions to strike with such accuracy and ferocity, the attack can distract prey and create an opening for the beast masters to deliver a killing blow. More experienced beast masters can even command their beasts to intercept approaching enemies. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the beast master fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The beast master uses Command Beast. It then makes two Spear attacks or two Longbow attacks. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage, or 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Command Beast. The beast master targets one allied beast it can see within 30 feet of it. If the allied beast can see and hear the beast master, the allied beast can use its reaction to make one melee weapon attack. If the attack hits and deals damage, the next attack roll made against the attacked creature by the beast master before the end of the turn has advantage. Spellcasting. The beast master casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): 1/day each: animal messenger, conjure woodland beings, conjure animals, silence, speak with animals, stoneskin, tree stride Bonus Actions Hunter's Mark (3/Day). The beast master casts hunter's mark using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. Reactions Command Intercept (4/Day). When the beast master is hit by an attack, the beast master targets an allied beast within 15 feet of it. If the allied beast can see and hear the beast master and the attacker, the allied beast uses its reaction to move up to half its speed toward the attacker. Once the allied beast is within 5 feet of the attacker, the allied beast makes one melee weapon attack against the attacker. If the attack hits, the allied beast gives the beast master a +4 bonus to its AC against the earlier attack, potentially causing a miss. To use this ability, the beast master must be able to see the allied beast and the attacker. Legendary Actions The beast master can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The beast master regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The beast master makes a Spear or Longbow attack. Command. The beast master uses Command Beast. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The beast master uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

