# Legendary Death Knight

**description**: Legendary death knights were once mighty fallen paladins and blackguards that, either through their means or entering into a pact with a powerful evil entity, have risen as legendary death knights after their mortal life ended. Fortunately, there are only a few of them that exist, and each has a name that brings chills up the spines of even the most hardened adventurers. Seldom does a legendary death knight leave its lair. But when it does, it is a very harrowing sight as a legendary death knight is never without its entourage of skeleton champions, knights, and banshees, if not a whole army of undead. Most have nightmares as steeds but a few command skeleton dragons or even dracoliches. Unusual Nature. A legendary death knight doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. A Death Knight's Lair A legendary death knight often haunts the abode it favored in life, such as a lonely tower, a haunted ruin, or an academy of black magic. Alternatively, some legendary death knights construct secret tombs filled with powerful guardians and traps. Everything about a legendary death knight’s lair reflects its keen mind and wicked cunning, including the magic and mundane traps that secure it. Undead, constructs, and bound demons lurk in shadowy recesses, emerging to destroy those who dare to disturb the death knight’s work. A legendary death knight encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 20 (25,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the legendary death knight can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the legendary death knight can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The legendary death knight causes up to four corpses within the lair to rise as skeletons, zombies, or wights. These undead obey its telepathic commands, which can reach anywhere in the lair. The legendary death knight casts command or hold person, if available. The legendary death knight calls forth the spirit of female elf that died in its lair. This spirit appears at a space of the legendary death knight's choice within 60 feet of the legendary death knight and immediately unleashes a deadly keening. Each non-Undead creature within 30 feet of the spirit must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature drops to 0 hit points. On a success, a creature takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage. The spirit then disappears. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary death knight’s lair is warped by the legendary death knight’s foul magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The chilling sound of female elves singing a dirge can be heard within 1 mile of the legendary death knight's lair. Beasts must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw at the end of each minute spent within 1 mile of the lair or become frightened until they are no longer within 1 mile of the lair. While frightened in this way, the beast must take the Dash action and move away from the lair by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn't take the Dash action. The beast can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a beast's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this regional effect for the next 24 hours. Skeletons, banshees, zombies, and wights within 1 mile of the legendary death knight’s lair serve as the legendary death knight’s eyes and ears. If the legendary death knight dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Fear Aura. A creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the legendary death knight must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, unless the legendary death knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from the legendary death knight by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn't take the Dash action. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn't have line of sight to the legendary death knight, the creature can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the legendary death knight's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the legendary death knight fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The legendary death knight has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The legendary death knight's weapon attacks are magical. Marshal Undead. Unless the legendary death knight is incapacitated, it and Undead creatures of its choice within 60 feet of it have advantage on saving throws against features that turn Undead. Actions Multiattack. The legendary death knight uses Command Undead. It then makes three Longsword attacks. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage, or 10 (1d10 + 5) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 22 (5d8) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it can't regain hit points until the start of the legendary death knight's next turn. Command Undead. The legendary death knight targets one Undead ally it can see within 30 feet of it and gives it a telepathic command. The target can use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack. Hellfire Orb (Recharge 6). The legendary death knight hurls a magical ball of fire that explodes at a point it can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on that point must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. The sphere spreads around corners. A creature takes 35 (10d6) fire damage and 35 (10d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The legendary death knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): 3/day each: command, dispel magic, hold person 1/day each: banishment, destructive wave, power word kill Reactions Parry. The legendary death knight adds 6 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the legendary death knight must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. Legendary Actions The legendary death knight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The legendary death knight regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The legendary death knight moves up to its speed. Command. The legendary death knight uses its Command Undead ability. Longsword. The legendary death knight makes a Longsword attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The legendary death knight uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

