# Legendary Aranea

**description**: An aranea is an intelligent shapeshifting creature not unlike a lycanthrope. In its natural form, the aranea appears as a giant spider with slender humanoid arms in place of its pedipalps. Its thorax has a humpback-shaped bulge that houses its brain. The aranea's other form is that of a humanoid female. Magically Adept. An aranea is naturally gifted with the arcane arts. Due to their highly secretive nature, they focus their expertise on the schools of illusion and enchantment. Some, although very rarely, even have psionic abilities. Silk Weavers. Despite their nature, most araneas are neutral and will keep to themselves, often living at the fringes of civilization so as not to attract unwanted attention to themselves. Those that manage to live within city walls work as silk weavers and silk traders and can live out their lives normally without getting exposed. Evil Aranea. Evil araneas are con artists and serial killers that use their guile and magical charm to lure innocent victims into their hovels where they can ensnare and cocoon them with their silky webs and store them in their larder-like attics. Male araneas do not have the ability to shapechange into humanoid form and have no magical abilities. They only serve the female as consorts and guards, and if prey is scarce, as food. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the aranea fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Spider Climb. The aranea can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the aranea knows the exact location of any creature in contact with the same web. Web Walker. The aranea ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Actions Bite (Spider Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned, the creature has disadvantage on Strength-based ability checks and Strength saving throws, and the creature’s weapon attacks that rely on Strength deal half damage. Mind Warp. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) psychic damage, and the target has disadvantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws until the end of the aranea's next turn. Web (Spider Form Only, Recharge 5–6). Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one creature. Hit: The target is restrained by webbing. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 16 Strength check, bursting the webbing on a success. The webbing can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; hp 5; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage). Spellcasting. The aranea casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion 2/day each: charm person, mage armor, major image, mirror image 1/day each: confusion, dominate person, greater invisibility, mass suggestion, phantasmal force, synaptic static Change Shape (Females Only). The aranea magically transforms into a Medium Humanoid or to return to its true form, which is a hybrid spider. Any equipment the aranea is wearing or carrying is absorbed by the new form. Its statistics, other than its size, don’t change. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Bonus Actions Heightened Spell (2/Day). When the aranea casts a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist the spell's effects, the aranea gives one target of the spell disadvantage on its first saving throw against the spell. Quickened Spell (3/Day). The aranea uses Spellcasting. Legendary Actions The aranea can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The aranea regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Bite. The aranea attacks with its Bite. Dark Magic (Costs 2 Actions). The aranea uses Mind Warp or Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Neutral (Any)
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

