# Legendary Pyromancer

**description**: Pyromancers are the masters of fire creation and manipulation. They are obsessed with the power of the fiery magic and focus all their energy into discovering the element's secrets. Pyromancers are feared by many for their aggressiveness, impatience, and unpredictability. Others see them as dangerous megalomaniacs who only use force and intimidation to resolve conflicts. Pyromancers are valued by military leaders for their ability to cause havoc and destruction on the battlefield. They are able to unleash fiery blasts that can burn and knock foes to the ground and blanket the fields with roaring flames. If things get dicey, pyromancers are able to fly temporarily to safety, leaving a fiery shockwave in their wake. Decades of exposure and training have made pyromancers resistant to fire. A Legendary Pyromancer's Lair Legendary pyromancers can live anywhere they wish, though they prefer their lairs to be generally impervious or at least resistant to fire, such as towers and keeps made almost entirely of stone and metal. Some even choose to live in very inhospitably hot places, such as near a volcano. A legendary pyromancer encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 15 (13,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the pyromancer can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the pyromancer can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The pyromancer causes a dazzling explosion of flame and color at a point it can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The pyromancer causes a fiery, concussive explosion at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature within 10 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) fire damage and 4 (1d8) force damage and is stunned until the end of the pyromancer's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't stunned. Smoke fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within 120 feet of the pyromancer. The sphere is heavily obscured. Creatures within the smoke sphere can't breathe. Wind disperses the cloud. It lasts until the pyromancer uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the pyromancer dies. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the pyromancer fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The pyromancer uses Ember Strike three times. If Flame Leap is available, it can use Flame Leap in place of one use of Ember Strike. Ember Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) fire damage. Fire Blast (Recharge 5–6). The pyromancer magically emits wide sheets of flame from its hands. Each creature in a 30-foot cone must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 40 (9d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Flame Leap (3/Day). Each creature within 5 feet of the pyromancer must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) fire damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone. The pyromancer then flies to an unoccupied space within 30 feet without provoking opportunity attacks. Inferno (1/Day). A wall made up of sheets of roaring flame and thick, choking smoke appears within 120 feet of the pyromancer. The area of the wall consists of up to ten 10-foot cubes, which the pyromancer can arrange as it wishes. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. The wall is opaque and lasts for 1 minute or until the pyromancer dies or is incapacitated. Creatures within the wall can't breathe. When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (5d10) fire damage and is incapacitated until the start of the pyromancer's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated. Creatures that are immune to fire automatically succeed on this saving throw. A creature must immediately make the same saving throw when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends its turn within 5 feet of the wall. Spellcasting. The pyromancer casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: acid splash (4d6), fire bolt (4d10), light, mage hand 2/day each: conjure elemental (fire), fireball, flaming sphere, mage armor, wall of fire 1/day each: delayed blast fireball, fire shield, incendiary cloud Reactions Flame Aegis (5/Day). When a creature within 5 feet of the pyromancer attacks the pyromancer with a melee attack, the pyromancer forces it to make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 16 (3d10) fire damage and has disadvantage on its attack roll. The pyromancer must be able to see the attacker. Creatures that are immune to fire automatically succeed on this saving throw. Legendary Actions The pyromancer can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The pyromancer regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Ember Strike. The pyromancer uses Ember Strike. Flame Leap. The pyromancer uses Flame Leap, if available. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The pyromancer uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

