# Legendary Vinegaroon

**description**: At first glance, the giant vinegaroon resembles a giant scorpion. It has two large pincers, eight legs, and a spindly tail. Unlike the giant scorpion, the giant vinegaroon's tail doesn't end with a stinger. The giant vinegaroon has eight legs but only uses six of its legs for crawling. Its front pair of legs serve as antennae-like sensory organs, enabling them to detect vibrations of possible danger or prey up to 10 feet away. Acidic Glands. The giant vinegaroon doesn't have any venom glands like a giant scorpion. Instead, it has glands near the rear of its abdomen where its tail is connected. These glands can project a caustic spray of acid that is enough to discourage larger predators, if not downright melt them. It is this vinegar-like-smelling acid that gives the creature its name and its pungent stench. Nocturnal Predators. The giant vinegaroon usually hunts at night and will eat almost anything smaller than itself but preys mostly on other giant insects, as well as giant frogs, snakes, slugs, and worms. When it has detected its prey, it tries to capture it with its pincer claws. Only when the victim is secured does the giant vinegaroon use its mandibles to puncture and tear the flesh of its target. To help digest its food, the giant vinegaroon secretes poison from its mouth that dissolves flesh into soup. While it will not hesitate to make a meal out of an adventurer, a giant vinegaroon tends to retreat once it has taken a large amount of damage from a single attack. When this happens, it often blasts its attacker with its acid spray before scampering away. Traits Stench. Any creature other than a vinegaroon that starts its turn within 10 feet of the vinegaroon must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the creature’s next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the Stench of all vinegaroons for 1 hour. Actions Multiattack. The vinegaroon makes two Claw attacks. If the vinegaroon is grappling a creature, the vinegaroon can also make a Bite attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15). The vinegaroon has two Claw attacks, each of which can grapple only one target. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one grappled target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage. Acid Spray (Recharge 5-6). The vinegaroon sprays acid from its abdomen in a 60-­­foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Defensive Spray. In response to being damaged by a visible creature within 30 feet of it and Acid Spray is available, the vinegaroon uses its Acid Spray. The triggering creature must be in the Acid Spray's area. Legendary Actions The vinegaroon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The vinegaroon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Crawl. The vinegaroon moves up to half its speed. Bite. The vinegaroon makes a Bite attack, if possible. Claw (Costs 2 Actions). The vinegaroon makes a Claw attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

