# Legendary Frost Mage

**description**: Frost mages devote their lives learning and obsessing about the power of the elemental cold. They seek to unlock the mysteries of frost magic and master how to harness and channel its energy. Due to years of exposure to cold magic, frost mages develop a resistance to it. In combat, frost mages can be surprisingly versatile despite their focus in cold magic. They can provide cover by blanketing large areas with fog and sleet, paralyze people with their hold person spells, and harm multiple targets with their ice blast ability and ice storm spell. A Legendary Frost Mage's Lair Legendary frost mages typically live in keeps and towers, often built from ice, in desolate and uninviting places that are perpetually shrouded by the cold such as glaciers and tundras. A legendary frost mage encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the frost mage can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the frost mage can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The frost mage casts fog cloud requiring no material components, and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability. The frost mage targets one creature it can see within 120 feet of it. The target is struck by a magical, numbing cold. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) cold damage and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. The ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point within 120 feet of the frost mage instantaneously erupts with jagged ice and frost. The area becomes difficult terrain for the duration. When a creature moves into or within the area, it takes 2 (1d4) piercing damage and 2 (1d4) cold damage for every 5 feet it travels. The jagged ice and frost disappears when the frost mage uses this lair action again or when the frost mage dies or is incapacitated. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the frost mage fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The frost mage uses Frost Strike three times. Frost Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) cold damage and the target can't take reactions until the end of the frost mage's next turn. Ice Blast (Recharge 5–6). The frost mage magically shoots forth freezing icicles in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) cold damage and 21 (6d6) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Frost Bloom (1/Day). A magical, dazzling snowflake streaks from the frost mage's pointing finger to a point it within 120 feet and then blossoms with a crackling and hissing sound into an explosion of freezing ice. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 42 (12d6) cold damage and is frozen in ice for 1 minute. While frozen, a creature is restrained. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 18 Strength check, breaking the ice on a success. The ice can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 12; hp 15; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to cold, poison, and psychic damage). On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frozen in ice. The freezing ice spreads around corners. Spellcasting. The frost mage casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: light, mage hand, prestidigitation 2/day each: cone of cold, hold person, ice storm, sleet storm 1/day each: mage armor, wall of ice Reactions Ice Block (5/Day). The frost mage can choose from two magical effects: 1. Shield. The frost mage adds 5 to its AC against one attack that would hit it. To do so, the frost mage must see the attacker. 2. Barrier. When the frost mage is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Strength or Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, it can instead take no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Legendary Actions The frost mage can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The frost mage regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Ice Slide. The frost mage moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Frost Strike. The frost mage uses Frost Strike. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The frost mage uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

