# Legendary Pale Knight

**description**: The pale knight has both the martial skills of an experienced warrior and the arcane powers of a talented necromancer. It stands tall and imposing, wearing dark ornate breastplate armor and wielding a fearsome-looking ancient scythe that seems to have a life of its own as if it is imbued with necrotic energy. Arcane Assassin. Despite its imposing appearance, the pale knight moves with the grace and speed of a dancer. Its fighting style is brutal and efficient, striking with precision and power and mixing it with its supernatural abilities and necromantic magic to dispatch foes quickly... or slowly. Undead Commander. The pale knight's most terrifying ability is its ability to summon and command the undead. It can raise fallen foes or open shadowy portals that reach into the Negative Plane and pull skeletal servants that do its bidding. The pale knight lets its minions swarm over the battlefield to overwhelm opponents while it picks off critical targets with its spells and its deadly scythe that can deliver mortal blows. A Legendary Pale Knight's Lair The lair of a pale knight is usually the ruins of a keep or temple that is located beside a cemetery, graveyard, or ancient battlefield, or a place where there is a resource of corpses. Numerous undead patrol the area. A legendary pale knight encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 20 (25,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the pale knight can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the pale knight can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The pale knight chooses a point it can see within its lair. Grasping skeletal arms and claws rise from the ground in a 20-foot-radius sphere center on that point. Each creature other than the pale knight in that area must make a DC 19 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (3d6) slashing damage and is restrained until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't restrained. The pale knight targets up to 3 creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Dismembered ghoulish claws fly from pale knight's hands and strike each creature unerringly before crumbling into dust. Each creature must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 7 (2d6) slashing damage and 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and is paralyzed until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't paralyzed. The pale knight teleports to an unoccupied space within 60 feet of it that it can see. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the pale knight fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Undead Leader. The pale knight’s Undead allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against any effect that turns undead while within 20 feet of the pale knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The pale knight makes three Scythe attacks. It can use Necrotic Gaze in place of one Scythe attack. Alternatively, it can make one Scythe attack and use Spellcasting. Scythe. Melee Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points until the end of the pale knight's next turn. Necrotic Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (6d8) necrotic damage and the target can't regain hit points until the end of the pale knight's next turn. Nether Rifts (Recharge 6). The pale knight opens momentary dimensional rifts to the Negative Plane at three different points within 60 feet of it. Each rift is a 10-foot-radius sphere. Each creature that isn't a Construct or Undead in the rifts must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 31 (7d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition 1d6 wights , 1d6 ghasts , and 1d6 ghouls appear in unoccupied spaces in any of the spheres. They act as the pale knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the pale knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the pale knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Undead (1/Day). The pale knight summons a number of skeletons, zombies, ghasts, ghouls, wights, mummies, and vampire spawns whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 160. A summoned undead appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the pale knight and acts as an ally of the pale knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the pale knight dies, or until the pale knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The pale knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): 2/day each: blight, blindness/deafness, cloudkill, fear 1/day each: animate dead (as an action), circle of death, dispel magic, vampiric touch Bonus Actions Aura of Necrosis. The pale knight activates or deactivates this aura. While active, a creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the pale knight must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, unless the pale knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target takes 14 (4d6) necrotic damage and is poisoned until the start of its next turn. A poisoned creature has vulnerability to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Constructs and Undead ignore this effect. Mortal Strike (3/Day). Immediately after the pale knight hits a target with a Scythe attack, the pale knight can force that target to make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature drops to 0 hit points. On a successful save, the creature takes 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. Legendary Actions The pale knight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The pale knight regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Command Undead. The pale knight targets an Undead ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the pale knight, the target can use its reaction to make one melee weapon attack or move up to half its speed. Drain Life. The pale knight targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitutions saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The pale knight regains hit points equal to the necrotic damage the target took. Necrotic Strike (Costs 2 Actions). The pale knight makes a Scythe attack or uses Necrotic Gaze. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The pale knight uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

