# Legendary Verdure Druid

**description**: Verdure druids see themselves as protectors of all plant life. They dedicate their lives ensuring the natural life cycle, growth, and continued existence of all flora. Benevolent Workers. Good-aligned verdure druids acknowledge the value of other life forms and strive to have a harmonious relationship between flora and fauna. They recognize that one cannot exist without the other, and thus endeavor to resolve any conflict between flora and other life forms through peaceful means. Violence and destruction is only a last recourse to resolve an issue. Territorial Wardens. Neutral-aligned verdure druids value flora over all life forms, and will protect them fiercely if harmed. They tolerate the presence of other forest beings, such as elves and fey, and view all others with suspicion. While they will always prioritize resolving conflict peacefully, neutral-aligned verdure druids will not hesitate to use violence, especially if the opposing parties are intruding in territories they have sworn to protect. They will kill if they must, but only as a last option. Fanatic Bigots. Evil-aligned verdure druids are extremists who see all other lifeforms as threats to the existence of flora. They actively seek opportunities to harm other beings, especially intelligent ones, and use their corpses as carcasses as compost. Evil-aligned verdure druids are often in the company of corrupted and monstrous plants like blights and shambling mounds, which they amass as armies. These druids scheme and work with evil fey like hags, which they see as instruments they can wield until they are no longer of use to them. A Legendary Verdure Druid's Lair A legendary verdure druid's lair is often a structure in the center of hidden garden of flowering vegetation, a copse of trees, or grove of giant, wild fungi. The appearance of the flora, whether they are majestic and blooming or wild and twisted, reflect the legendary druid's alignment. A legendary verdure druid encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the druid can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the druid can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The druid magically releases spores that spread all around it. Each creature within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or fall into a deep sleep and become unconscious. An unconscious creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the unconscious creature takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake, it gains advantage on its next saving throw. Creatures that don't need to breathe are immune to this effect. The druid casts faerie fire spell three times, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. The druid targets different areas within its lair with the spell and the areas need not be within line of sight. The druid doesn’t need to concentrate on the spells, which end on initiative count 20 of the next round. The druid regains 60 hit points or casts greater restoration at itself, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the druid fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The druid makes two Spore Strike attacks. Spore Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) poison damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is poisoned for 1 minute and the creature suffers an additional effect of the druid's choice: 1. Blight. While poisoned in this way, the creature takes 4 (1d8) poison damage and 4 (1d8) necrotic damage at the end of each of its turns. 2. Charm. While poisoned in this way, the creature is charmed. 3. Madness. While poisoned in this way, the creature must move up to its speed to the nearest creature it can see and use its action to make a melee attack against a randomly determined creature within its reach. 4. Paralysis. While poisoned in this way, the creature is paralyzed. A creature can have only one poison effect at a time. If a creature receives a new poison effect, the previous one immediately ends. Ensnaring Vegetation (Recharge 5–6). The druid targets one or more creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Grasping thorny and poisonous roots and vines sprout underneath each target and attempt to envelop it. Each target must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling vegetation for 1 minute. While restrained in this way, a creature takes 14 (4d6) piercing damage and 14 (4d6) poison damage at the end of each of its turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 18 Strength check, escaping from the vegetation on a success. The vegetation can also be destroyed to end the effect. The entangling vegetation has AC 10, 10 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, poison, and psychic damage. Summon Plants (1/Day). The druid conjures Plant creatures whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 180. These creatures magically sprout from the ground in unoccupied spaces within 60 feet of the druid, obey its commands, and immediately act after the druid's turn. It remains until it or the druid dies, until the druid uses Summon Plants again, or until the druid dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The druid casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: druidcraft, guidance, resistance, speak with plants 2/day each: barkskin, entangle, goodberry, pass without trace, plant growth, transport via plants, wall of thorns 1/day each: antipathy/sympathy, regenerate Bonus Actions Command Plant . The druid targets one allied plant it can see within 30 feet of it. The plant performs an action of the druid's choice: 1. Attack. The plant uses its reaction to make one weapon attack against a visible target of the druid's choice. 2. Creep. The plant uses its reaction to move up to its speed or move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. 3. Transfer Druid. If the druid is within reach of the plant's melee attack, the plant moves the druid to another space of the druid's choice within reach of the plant's melee attack. This action does not provoke opportunity attacks. Reactions Protective Minion. When the druid is hit by an attack roll, one Plant ally or a creature that is charmed by the druid that is within 5 feet of it is hit by the attack instead. Legendary Actions The druid can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The druid regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Spore Strike. The druid makes one Spore Strike attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The druid uses Spellcasting. Spore Cloud (Costs 3 Actions). The druid magically emits spores that spread in a 30-foot-radius centered on the druid. The druid chooses from one two effects: Healing Spores. Each creature in that area regains 18 (4d8) hit points. The spores have no effect on Constructs, Elementals, and Undead. Toxic Spores. Each non-Plant creature in that area must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Death Touch (Costs 3 Actions) . Melee Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the creature is reduced to 0 hit points. On a successful save, the creature takes 27 (6d8) poison damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

