# Legendary Hell Knight

**description**: The hell knight is a once powerful fallen paladin who has pledged loyalty and servitude to an arch devil, often driven to seek vengeance on its former allies or patrons. While the hell knight works tirelessly to achieve the goals of its infernal master, it does so as a means to gain supernatural strength and power. The hell knight is ruthless in its pursuits to gain any advantage, whether in politics or martial combat. It dominates those who are weak-willed, manipulates those with hidden agendas and vendettas, and annihilates anyone who stands in its way. Infernal Champion. A hell knight is a mighty foe to face in combat. Aside from its martial prowess, it has a number of deadly supernatural abilities it can employ. One such ability is the constant presence of dread the hell knight projects, causing those who succumb to it to become unable to act. Another is the hell knight’s gaze which can project fiery beams that burn a target and make it more susceptible to fear and fire. What makes the hell knight more dangerous, however, is its ability to summon and command devils efficiently in the battlefield. Devils under the command of a hell knight fight with discipline and fervor, and do not easily break rank or flee. Infernal Rifts. More powerful hell knights are able to temporarily open dimensional rifts to Hell. Such fiery portals sear the flesh of those caught within it. Despite the short duration of the rift, it is enough for a small number of devils to pass through. These devils immediately submit themselves to the hell knight that summoned them, and become its allies. A Legendary Hell Knight's Lair The lair of a legendary hell knight is usually something that is logistically practical and strategic. Thus, the lair is often in a very defensible location or is well hidden, but placed within reach of resources. Such lairs are typically fortresses high atop mountains or volcanoes, ruins deep within a dismal swamp, or forgotten dungeons underneath a city. A legendary hell knight encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 20 (25,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the hell knight can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the hell knight can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The hell knight casts command at up to 3 creatures, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (DC 19). The hell knight teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. The hell knight targets up to three creatures on the ground it can see within 120 feet of it. A 5-foot-diameter and 5-foot-high vertical column of infernal fire roars upward from the ground underneath each target. Each target must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) fire damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. The hell knight targets a visible Devil ally it has summoned within 30 feet of it. The target is destroyed and the hell knight regains a number of hit points equal to half the target's maximum hit points. Traits Infernal Aura. An enemy that starts its turn within 20 feet of the hell knight must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, unless the hell knight is incapacitated. On a failed save, the target is frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened in this way, the target is incapacitated and its speed is halved. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the hell knight's Infernal Aura for the next 24 hours or until it takes damage from the hell knight's Infernal Gaze. Infernal Leader. The hell knight’s Devil allies have advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against being charmed or frightened while within 20 feet of the hell knight, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the hell knight fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons. The hell knight’s weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The hell knight makes three Greatsword attacks. It can use Infernal Gaze in place of one Greatsword attack. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) fire damage. Infernal Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d8) fire damage and the target has disadvantage on saving throws made against being frightened until the end of the hell knight's next turn. Infernal Rift (Recharge 6). The hell knight opens a momentary dimensional rift to Hell within 60 feet of it. The rift is a 20-foot-radius sphere. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, 1d4 bearded devils , 1d4 spined devils , and 1d4 imps appear in unoccupied spaces in the sphere. They act as the hell knight’s allies, take their turns immediately after the hell knight. They remain for 1 minute, until destroyed, or until the hell knight dismisses them as an action. Summon Devil (1/Day). The hell knight summons 1 bone devil , 1 chained devil , 1d2 barbed devils , 1d4+1 bearded devils , 2d4 spined devils , or 4d4 imps . A summoned Devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the hell knight and acts as an ally of the hell knight. It remains for an hour, until it or the hell knight dies, or until the hell knight dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting . The hell knight casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): 2/day each: command, fireball, scorching ray, wall of fire 1/day each: dispel magic, locate object, stinking cloud Reactions Hellish Rebuke (4/Day). In response to being damaged by a visible creature within 60 feet of it, the hell knight forces that creature to make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The hell knight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The hell knight regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Command Devil. The hell knight targets a Devil ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the hell knight, the target can use its reaction to make one melee weapon attack or move up to half its speed. Dominate. The hell knight targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target must use its reaction to move up to its speed and make one melee weapon attack against a visible creature of the hell knight's choice. Infernal Strike (Costs 2 Actions). The hell knight makes a Greatsword attack or uses Infernal Gaze. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The hell knight uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

