# Legendary Jack-o'-Lantern

**description**: A jack-o'-lantern resembles a horrifying 7-foot-tall scarecrow with gangly limbs and a head that of a carved and lit pumpkin. It haunts the edges of remote towns and seldomly used forest paths and trails, terrorizing townsfolk and lonely travelers. It particularly enjoys tormenting and toying with its victims for a prolonged period before murdering them. Spirit-Powered Constructs. The jack-o'-lantern is an animated construct, powered by the bound spirit of evil, mischievous, and greedy humanoids. It is said that the first jack-o'-lantern was born from a bard who outwitted a powerful fey it earlier made a pact with. After the bard got older and was about to die of old age, the same fey captured his soul and infused it with a pumpkin-headed scarecrow. The peace of eternal rest stolen from it, the spirit became insane and turned its rage towards those it could. Greater and Legendary Versions. Witches and powerful fey such as hags usually bind jack-o'-lanterns with the spirits of those who broke agreements or tried to trick them, turning them into loyal minions who do their bidding. When a jack-o'-lantern is freed from its servitude and left to wander, especially if the bound spirit was that of a bard, it may continue to grow in power and knowledge. If left unchecked, become a dangerous threat to communities. A Legendary Jack-o'-Lantern's Lair The lair of a legendary jack-o'-lantern is a haunted mansion surrounded by a dark grove or garden of dreadful, misshapen trees and wild undergrowth. Dozens of jack-o'-lantern pumpkins decorate the place. The legendary jack-o'-lantern keeps the company of evil fey, humanoids, and incorporeal undead such as bugbears, goblins, ghosts, hags, shadows, specters, and wraiths. These creatures act as allies of the legendary jack-o'-lantern and obey its commands. The challenge rating of a legendary jack-o'-lantern increases to 16 (15,000 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the jack-o'-lantern takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the jack-o'-lantern can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The jack-o'-lantern creates 1d4 jack-o'-lantern pumpkins. The jack-o'-lantern pumpkin sprouts from the ground within 120 feet of the jack-o'-lantern and can't be within 40 feet of another jack-o'-lantern pumpkin. The jack-o'-lantern causes one jack-o'-lantern pumpkin within its lair to explode in a fiery blast. Each creature within 20 feet of the exploding pumpkin must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Each jack-o'-lantern pumpkin has AC 10, 5 hit points, and is immune to poison and psychic damage. Grasping prickly roots and thorny vines sprout from the ground and other plants in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within the lair of the jack-o'-lantern. Each creature other than the jack-o'-lantern in that area must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling vegetation for 1 minute. While restrained, a creature takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 18 Strength check, escaping from the grasping vegetation on a success. The vegetation can also be destroyed to end the effect. Each grasping vegetation has AC 10, 15 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, poison, and psychic damage. The grasping vegetation lasts until the jack-o'-lantern uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the jack-o'-lantern dies. The jack-o'-lantern magically turns invisible until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the jack-o'-lantern wears or carries is invisible with it. Traits Illumination. The jack-o'-lantern sheds bright light in a 5-­foot radius and dim light for an additional 5 feet. The jack-o'-lantern can use a bonus action to switch its Illumination active or off. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the jack-o'-lantern fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The jack-o'-lantern uses Terrifying Glare. It then makes two Claw attacks or uses Spellcasting. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage and the target has disadvantage on saving throws until the end of the jack-o'-lantern's next turn. Terrifying Glare. If its Illumination is active, the jack-o'-lantern targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the jack-o'-lantern, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be magically frightened until the end of the jack-o'-lantern’s next turn. The frightened target is paralyzed. Dreadfire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The jack-o'-lantern exhales nightmarish fire in a 30-­foot cone. Each creature in the area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 22 (5d8) fire damage plus 22 (5d8) psychic damage and is frightened until the end of the jack-o'-lantern's next turn. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. Spellcasting. The jack-o'-lantern casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: dancing lights, minor illusion, vicious mockery (4d4) 2/day each: charm person, entangle, hideous laughter, phantasmal killer, mislead, suggestion 1/day: etherealness, irresistible dance, power word kill Bonus Actions Misty Step (Recharge 5–6). The jack-o'-lantern teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Reactions Unnerving Barb. The jack-o'-lantern imposes disadvantage on an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw made by a visible creature within 30 feet of it, provided the creature can hear and understand the jack-o'-lantern. Legendary Actions The jack-o'-lantern can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The jack-o'-lantern regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The jack-o'-lantern makes a Claw attack. Terrify. The jack-o'-lantern uses Terrifying Glare. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The jack-o'-lantern uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

