# Leng Envoy

**description**: Denizen of Leng Those who dwell in the nightmare realm of Leng often come to the Material Plane seeking prey. They have also been known to ally with evil organizations to serve their own mysterious purposes. Leng Envoy The Leng envoy is a powerful variant of the dangerous denizen of Leng. The envoy is typically found beyond Leng’s borders when called there by a powerful cultist who seeks aid in breaking down the boundaries of reality. They often travel with their own deadly minions, such as mastiffs of Tindalos. A Leng envoy is humanoid in shape, yet its face is a nightmare tangle of strange mouth-parts topped by a pair of twisted horns. Unlike the typical denizen of Leng, these envoys rarely bother to conceal their appearances from those they visit on the Material Plane. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The Leng envoy’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: arcane eye, detect magic, detect thoughts, locate object, mage hand, message, poison spray, ray of frost, shocking grasp, tongues 3/day: burning hands, clairvoyance, counterspell, fireball, gust of wind, haste, invisibility, mage armor, magic missile, misty step, scrying, shatter, shield, telepathic bond 1/day: chain lightning, cone of cold, dimension door, mage armor, resilient sphere, true seeing Leng Ruby. Many denizens of Leng carry strange rubies mined from quarries in Leng. As long as a creature holds a Leng ruby that it willingly accepted as a gift or payment from a denizen of Leng, any denizen of Leng can target that creature with any divination spell it knows at a range of 1 mile, and the target has disadvantage on the saving throw. A typical Leng envoy carries 1d6 rubies when encountered. No Breath. The Leng envoy doesn’t need to breathe. Planar Regeneration. A denizen of Leng maintains a connection to the demiplane of Leng at all times, and when away from Leng, they gain 15 hit points at the start of each round. They lose this ability on Leng or in areas where planar connections do not function. If killed, their body dissolves into nothingness in one minute, leaving their equipment behind. A slain denizen reforms in Leng; they can be permanently killed only when their planar regeneration doesn’t function. Unusual Anatomy. A denizen’s internal anatomy varies from individual to individual and grants the Leng envoy resistance to all sneak attack and critical hit damage no matter the source. Actions Multiattack. The Leng envoy makes three melee attacks or makes one melee attack and casts a spell. Debilitating Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6+5) piercing damage and the target takes 1d6 Dexterity Ability damage. This damage can be healed normally but a target reduced to 0 Dexterity is paralyzed until it regains 1 point. Greater Striking Keen Kukri +2. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d4+7) slashing damage plus 18 (4d8) force damage, and the target has disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes against a spell the Leng envoy casts before the end of the Leng envoy’s next turn. This weapon scores a critical hit on a 19 or 20. On a critical hit, the weapon inflicts an aberrant wound and the target takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns for 1 minute. The wound closes if the target receives magical healing. Legendary Actions The Leng envoy can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The Leng envoy regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Cast a Spell (1 to 3 actions). The Leng envoy can cast one of its spells: an at-will spell costs 1 action, a 3/day spell costs 2 actions, and a 1/day spell costs 3 actions each. Sudden Action. The Leng envoy attacks with its debilitating bite or attacks with its kukri. Play the Pipes (1/Day). So long as the Leng envoy is holding a musical instrument, it can play a melody to cast irresistible dance , unfathomable song to cast confusion , or a trancelike dirge to cast feeblemind . The spell targets all creatures in a 60-foot sphere centered on the Leng envoy instead of its usual targets. A creature that succeeds at its saving throw (DC 18) against any spell is immune from all spells played from the envoy’s pipes for 1 minute. Aberrations are immune to this music.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

