# Leonal

**description**: Leonals appear as muscular humanoids with lion-like features. Their bodies are covered with short tawny-golden fur with males sporting great red manes. They have the lower legs of a lion and strong, powerful arms that end with paw-like hands with retractable claws. Leonals project an intense nobility that can be both awe-inspiring and intimidating. Assiduous Leaders. Because of their great wisdom, strength, and charisma, leonals often lead the other guardinals and answer only to the paragons and deities of Elysium and House of Nature. The leonals use their authority very carefully, ensuring that the best course of action is taken and that all guardinals under their command are treated equally. Mighty Champions. In combat, few can withstand a leonal's powerful melee blows. When outnumbered or against a tough foe, leonals can utilize a number of powerful spells that can turn the tide of battle in their favor. Fiends, in particular, fear leonals for their ability to unleash a devastating divine roar. Guardinals The noble guardinals are celestials that resemble animal-humanoid hybrids. Despite their bestial appearance, guardinals are the most honorable and pure-hearted beings one will ever encounter. Native to Elysium and the House of Nature, the guardinals embody virtue and good-naturedness without being constrained by law nor distracted by the chaos of freedom. They are welcoming, mirthful, and witty. Though they always seek to resolve conflict through peaceful means, guardinals are ready to fight if needed. Due to their nature, guardinals often clash with fiends, tyrants, and evil undead. Noble Heroes. While guardinals have no strict hierarchy as do the celestial archons, they recognize the authority and follow the guardinal paragons known as Talisid and the Five Companions. From time to time, guardinals may be called upon by deities of Elysium and the House of Nature to perform noble quests, at times aiding heroes from the Material Plane. Squads of guardinals also mount lightning raids and rescue missions in the Lower Planes. Traits Aura of Protection. Each ally within 20 feet of the leonal has advantage on saving throws against being charmed and frightened. Magic Resistance. The leonal has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Speak with Beasts. The leonal can communicate with beasts as if they shared a language. Actions Multiattack. The leonal makes two melee attacks and uses Divine Roar, if available. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d12 + 6) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. Spellcasting. The leonal casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: detect thoughts, protection from poison 2/day each: cure wounds (as a 4th-level spell), fireball 1/day each: hold monster, polymorph, heal Divine Roar (1/Day). The leonal emits a magical roar. Each evil creature within 60 feet of the leonal must make a DC 16 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) thunder damage and suffers an effect based on its current hit points: 50 hit points or fewer: deafened for 1 minute 40 hit points or fewer: deafened and blinded for 10 minutes 30 hit points or fewer: blinded, deafened, and stunned for 1 hour 20 hit points or fewer: killed instantly On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Neutral Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

