# Lernean Hydra

**description**: One of the many children conceived by Typhon and Echidna, this famous monster is infamous amongst the land and also known for its place as Heracles’ antagonist in his second labor. The Lernean Hydra is a massive abomination, with a torso that resembles a mix between a crocodile and an elephant for its shape and physical strength, with 7 long serpentine heads sprouting from it. Its first incarnation’s body was covered in a dark yellowish-green spiny coat of natural armor, with the exception of the exposed underside. This lack of armor is the reason why it rarely left the waters of its swamp to face invaders, as the terrain gave it a tactical advantage. However, nowadays its body has grown stronger, darker and more resilient than ever before. It is both a straightforward opponent and a cautious hunter. Famed for its ability to regenerate its own heads, growing two whenever a single one is cut off. After its death at the hands of Heracles it was discovered that its blood is also a terrifyingly effective poison that can infect and kill simply by making contact with flesh, rather than being ingested or exposed to the bloodstream of a creature. However, the death of the Lernean Hydra was not a permanent one. A second coming made itself known in the swamps to the cold north, terrorizing the locals and claiming a new lair. The reason for its return is mysterious, and the creature is much more of a threat than the smaller descendants that adventurers have been known to handle. Grudge Beyond Death. The Lernean Hydra seems to hold onto a distinct hatred for Heracles, however it cannot challenge the son of Zeus as he has transcended and become a god. Thus it has directed its animosity to the next best target, worshippers of Heracles. It seems to possess a sixth sense to identify them and has never left a single one escape alive. Spiteful Evolution. After coming back from the grave, the Lernean Hydra’s body became significantly tougher. Now sporting a darker appearance, with a heavily armored hide, segmented plates of natural armor cover its body and serve as an enhancement to its already insane physical prowess. Monstrosities Monsters have been common amongst the obstacles of heroes since ancient times. These monsters are often born from terrible primordial beings and the damning hubris of the gods. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the hydra fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Corroding Blood. When the hydra takes piercing or slashing damage, each creature within 5 feet of the hydra takes 13 (3d8) poison damage. Hold Breath. The hydra can hold its breath for 3 hours. Magic Resistance. The hydra has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Multiple Heads. The hydra has seven heads. While it has more than one head, the hydra has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. Whenever the hydra takes 45 or more damage in a single turn, one of its heads dies. If all its heads die, the hydra dies. At the end of its turn, it grows two heads for each of its heads that died since its last turn, unless it has taken radiant damage since its last turn. The hydra regains 30 hit points for each head regrown in this way. Reactive Heads. For each head the hydra has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Wakeful. While the hydra sleeps, at least one of its heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The hydra uses its Frightful Presence and then can make as many bite attacks as it has heads. It can replace a bite attack with a slam attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15ft., one target. Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) piercing damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 26 (3d12 + 7) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 21 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the hydra's choice that is within 120 feet of it and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the hydra's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The Lernean Hydra can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The Lernean Hydra regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The hydra can move up to its speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Bite. The hydra can make a bite attack. Bite. The hydra can make a bite attack. Corroding Torrent (Costs 3 actions). A 20 foot-radius spray of corroding blood pours forward, centered on the hydra. Each creature in that area other than the hydra must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) acid damage and 22 (4d10) poison damage and become poisoned for 1 minute on a failed save. On a successful save the creature takes half of the damage and avoids being poisoned. At the end of each of its turns, the creature can make another Constitution saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

