# Lesser Star Spawn Emissary

**description**: Few understand the full hungry hostility of the multiverse. Star spawn emissaries are the fingers of alien realms, digits that tip the scales of reality toward terror. Heralded by ominous astrological events, these ravenous invaders make worlds ready for unimaginable masters or distant, greater manifestations of themselves. Employing their malleable forms, emissaries work to undermine perceptions of order, trust, and reality on global scales, readying worlds for sanity-shattering revelations and cascading apocalypses. Only when truly threatened, or when their foes have lost all hope, do emissaries reveal their actual, impossible forms. Forms of the Emissary Star spawn emissaries can assume two forms: a lesser form suited to infiltration and a greater, physically overwhelming form. To destroy an emissary, characters must reduce each of its forms to 0 hit points one after another. Typically, a star spawn emissary is initially encountered in its lesser form. When this form is destroyed, the emissary’s body collapses into a gory slurry. It then instantly returns in its greater form. Only if the emissary is defeated in its greater form does the star spawn die. After finishing a long rest, a greater star spawn emissary regains its lesser form if it was destroyed. When an emissary transitions from one form to another, it loses all the traits and actions of the previous form and gains those of the new form. The accompanying stat blocks detail both of the emissary’s forms. Lesser Form A star spawn emissary’s lesser form allows it to appear as any creature. Emissaries have no misplaced pride and just as readily appear as people, animals, or other creatures—the more unassuming, the better. Should it reveal its true form, an emissary appears as a roughly bipedal mass of agitated organs, self-cannibalizing alien orifices, and appendages suggestive of forms it has previously assumed. Traits Aberrant Rejuvenation. When the emissary drops to 0 hit points, its body melts away. A greater star spawn emissary instantly appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of where the lesser emissary disappeared. The greater emissary uses the lesser emissary’s initiative count. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the emissary fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Unusual Nature. The emissary doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The emissary makes three attacks. Lashing Maw. Melee Weapon Attack : +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit : 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) acid damage. Psychic Orb. Ranged Spell Attack : +13 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit : 18 (2d10 + 7) psychic damage. Change Shape. The emissary polymorphs into a Small or Medium creature of its choice or back into its true form. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. Legendary Actions The emissary can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The emissary regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Psychic Orb. The emissary makes a Psychic Orb attack. Teleportation Maw (Costs 2 Actions). The emissary teleports to an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet of it and can make a Lashing Maw attack. Psychic Lash (Costs 3 Actions). The emissary targets a creature it can see within 30 feet of it and psychically lashes at that creature’s mind. The target must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or take 36 (8d8) psychic damage and be stunned until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Expansion: 10535
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Van Richten's Guide To Ravenloft

