# Lesser Aboleth Broodmother

**description**: The Brood Aboleth broodmothers weave a rich genetic tapestry with the ecosystem in which they settle. A broodmother’s influence over its domain can be so absolute as to create a sort of hive mind out of the creatures it bends to its will. Alternate Evolution. A broodmother does not evolve via the mechanisms proposed by many famous zoologists, such as Charlotte Darloss and Jane Lemarck, but rather assimilates the adaptations that other species develop through natural selection. After ingesting an organism, special enzymes within a broodmother’s gastric tract extract useful genes and mutations, apportioning them to the relevant organs in the broodmother’s form. One of those adaptations was a failsafe: a means of storing its memories, gathering biomass, and reforming itself. Aboleth Broodmother Due to the plethora of adaptations a broodmother has assimilated, it only vaguely resembles the form it had when it first arrived on the Material Plane. What still remains is its indelible memory and its desire to entrance living things. Regional Effects The region containing an aboleth broodmother’s lair is warped by millenia of tinkering with the flora and fauna, creating one or more of the following effects: Never-before-seen fauna, often sporting sacs of unborn broodlings, proliferate within 6 miles of the lair. Creatures in contact with water within 6 miles of the lair feel a compulsion to move towards the lair’s centre. Within 1 mile of the lair, thickets of dense vegetation allow passage only for the broodmother, broodlings, or creatures controlled by either. Each 5-foot-cube of thicket has an AC of 15, 50 hit points, vulnerability to cold damage, resistance to bludgeoning damage, and immunity to piercing, poison, and psychic damage. Lair Actions So long as the aboleth broodmother or one of its offspring is alive and within the lake, it can evoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. The DCs and damage of the lair actions and environmental hazards depend on the level at which you run the hunt. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vmod Vdam 5th 13 +5 5 (2d4) 11th 15 +7 10 (3d6) 17th 17 +9 21 (6d6) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the aboleth takes one of the following lair actions; the aboleth can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row. See the table above for the damage and save DC. Tempestuous Turbulence. The water within the lair writhes and swirls, causing 6-foot-tall waves to crash over all the low-lying islands. Each creature in the water, or on the ground less than 5 feet above the water’s surface, must make a VDC Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 20 feet into the water. Plague Tide. The water begins to bubble, filling the lair with noxious, aerosolised droplets. A creature is affected even if it doesn’t need to breathe. Each creature must succeed on a VDC Constitution saving throw or become poisoned. If running this hunt at 11th or 17th level, the creature is poisoned as if it had failed a saving throw against the contagion spell (no concentration required). A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect for it on a success. Aqua Phantasm. Water in the aboleth broodmother’s lair magically becomes a conduit for the unspeakable horrors the broodmother has witnessed in its vast memory. Each creature of the broodmother or broodlings’ choice within the lair’s waters must succeed on a VDC Wisdom saving throw or take Vdam psychic damage and become frightened of the huddled mass of creatures (wave 1), the chrysalis (wave 2), or the broodmother (wave 3) until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Abberation
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

