# Leukodaemon

**description**: Daemon Daemons are sinister neutral evil fiends who form from the most despicable of souls and personify the most horrible ways one can die. Natives to the neutral evil outer planes, daemons lack the strict order and regiment associated with devils, yet also lack the almost gleeful addiction to spreading chaos and mayhem common to demons. They are, many scholars posit, one of the purest forms of evil. Daemons as a whole cover a wide range of power, and many are associated with the legendary demigods known collectively as the Horsemen of the Apocalypse. Leukodaemon These skull-headed, vulture-winged daemons are manifestations of evil souls who perished from disease in life. They work tirelessly to spread disease across all the worlds of the multiverse. Leukodaemons are the favored minions of the Horseman of Pestilence, but these evil fiends are equally at home serving any powerful deity or demigod associated with sickness, plague, or disease. Traits Daemonic Pestilence. A creature likely contracts daemonic pestilence from being attacked by or in close proximity to a leukodaemon. A creature that starts its turn within 50 feet of a leukodaemon must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or contract daemonic pestilence. A creature with this disease establishes a telepathic link with the leukodaemon that conferred this disease. The range of this mental connection is unlimited, even spanning across planes. The creature must also make a Constitution saving throw each day after a long rest, gaining a level of exhaustion instead of recovering one on a failure. Daemonic pestilence persists until the target accrues 6 successes against the disease. Plaguebearer. The leukodaemon is immune to disease, but can contract them for the purposes of spreading them. Plaguesense. A leukodaemon senses any creature within 60 feet that has a disease. It knows the type and current stage of all diseases carried by such creatures. Infectious Aura. The leukodaemon radiates a 30 feet radius aura of infection. All creatures that start their turn inside of this aura have disadvantage on saving throws against contracting or resisting diseases. Innate Spellcasting. The leukodaemon’s spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect evil and good 3/day each: dispel magic, dimension door Actions Multiattack. The leukodaemon makes one claw attack and one bite attack, or three +1 longbow attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (3d12+6) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or contract daemonic pestilence. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d8+6) slashing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or contract daemonic pestilence. Longbow +1. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8+6) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or contract daemonic pestilence. Breath Weapon (Recharge 5–6). The leukodaemon exhales a cloud of corpse-bloated, biting black flies in a 20-foot cone. A creature within the cone must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 31 (7d8) piercing damage and becoming poisoned for 1 minute on a failed save. On a success, the creature takes half the damage and is not poisoned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

