# Levistus

**description**: No archdevil is more hated than the Frozen Prince, Levistus, despite his reputation as an honorable and chivalrous archdevil. Rivaling Asmodeus and Dis in their ability to plan and strategize, Levistus is generally considered one of the most plausible archdevils for overthrowing the throne. His ambition was somewhat stifled when he committed an unspeakable betrayal and was imprisoned by Asmodeus deep within the ice of Stygia. Even while imprisoned, Levistus continues to plot, choosing to force his rage inward and reflect. Divination and communication magic helps aid this effort, and even from within his icy tomb Levistus manages legions. Levistus is known to make many deals with adventurers, provided they can aid his search for freedom. When the Reckoning happened. Asmodeus, noticing that Levistus played no part in the war, chose to reinstate him as ruler of Stygia. While Levistus still desired revenge on his jailor, he recognized the opportunity and pledged temporary allegiance to Asmodeus. Publicly, Levistus completely supports Asmodeus and his plans, though from beneath the ice he continues to plot his revenge. Other archdevils describe Levistus as clever, charming, and observant, if not also traitorous. He was often known to engage adversaries in single combat, only calling upon his magic and followers if someone or something intervened. For this reason, he is often worshipped by honorable thieves and charlatans—rogues with a code. Levistus is described as an attractive humanoid male, with dark hair, an impeccable goatee, and pale-white skin. Levistus’ Lair The ruler of Stygia’s lair is within his floating prison. This great glacier moves ponderously over the ages, carrying with it Levistus, and the effects of his lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Levistus can take one lair action to cause the following effect or one from the archdevil lair action list ; he can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Icemaw . One creature within 60 feet of Levistus, that he can see, must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw. If a creature fails the saving throw, they sink half of their height into the ice and have the grappled condition (escape DC 21) and their movement becomes 0. If a creature already affected by Icemaw is affected by it a second time, they sink completely into the ice and begin suffocating. Regional Effects The icy regions containing Levistus’ lair is corrupted by his presence, which creates the following effect: Frozen Landscape . Any creature that has the prone or unconscious conditions within 1 mile of the lair, takes 21 (6d6) cold damage at the start of their turn. If Levistus dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Armor of Ice. Levistus is always entombed in ice. The ice provides 100 temporary hit points. While Levistus has these temporary hit points, he has vulnerability to fire damage. If Levistus starts his turn with no temporary hit points from the ice, he regains 100 temporary hit points. Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede Levistus’s darkvision. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Levistus fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Levistus has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sub-zero. Cold damage dealt by Levistus ignores resistances and immunities. Actions Multiattack. Levistus makes three Touch of Stygia or Ice Bolt attacks. He can replace one of the attacks with Blizzard (if available). Touch of Stygia. Melee Spell Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7) psychic damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 23 Intelligence saving throw or have the stunned condition for 1 minute. The target may repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on a success. A creature that succeeds on the saving throw is immune to this effect for 1 hour. Ice Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +15 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) cold damage. Blizzard (Recharge 4–6). Levistus chooses a point he can see within 300 feet of him. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on that point must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw. Targets take 13 (3d8) force damage plus 13 (3d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. Levistus casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 23): At will: Cone of Cold, Darkness, Ice Storm, Wall of Ice Reactions Counterspell. As a reaction to a creature he can see casting a spell, Levistus can attempt to prevent the casting. Levistus makes an Intelligence check (+7) against a DC of (10 + spell level). On a success, the creature’s spell fails and has no effect. Legendary Actions Levistus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Levistus regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Amnesia. Levistus selects a stunned creature that he can see. The creature must succeed on a DC 23 Charisma saving throw or Levistus erases a specific memory from the target. The memory must be one that the target experienced in the last 24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 minutes. The memory can only be restored with a Remove Curse or a Greater Restoration spell. Froststrike. Levistus makes an Ice Bolt attack. On a hit, the target falls and has the prone condition. Call Underling (Costs 3 Actions). Levistus summons an allied ice devil in an unoccupied space that he can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28645
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Chains of Asmodeus

