# Ley Wanderer

**description**: Floating through the air, this creature's head is a huge, dome-like cranium. Three pairs of spindly arms ending in human-sized hands grow from the torso of its rubbery, slug- like body. Ley wanderers are enigmatic creatures that feed on the magical energy that flows within the world. Their origins are unclear, but sages speculate they are the mutated descendants of human mages caught in a magical cataclysm cen turies ago. Peaceful Travelers. Ley wanderers are solitary and peaceful unless provoked. Possessed of considerable intelligence, they drift from place to place, grazing on sources of magi cal energy. Magic-Hungry Guides. Ley wanderers feed by absorbing spells or draining magic items, an obsession that often leads them to leave in the middle ofa fight to pursue or consume a source of magic. Adventurers who need to get somewhere urgently have been known to track down a ley wanderer and gift it such magic in exchange for qu ick travel. Feasting Feud. Ley wanderers feed off the same sources of magical energy as the werynax (see Tome of Beasts 2), and the two creatures fight furiously on the rare occasion s they meet. Sense Magic. The ley wanderer senses magic within 120 feet of it at will. This trait otherwise works like the detect magic spell but isn't itself magical. Actions Multiattack. The ley wanderer makes three Slam or Psychic Lash attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) psychic damage. Psychic Lash. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) psychic damage. Dispelling Burst (Recharge 5-6). The ley wanderer emits a psychic burst that disrupts magic within 30 feet of it. Each creature in the area must make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw, taking 27 (6d8) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, each spell of 3rd level or lower in the area immediately ends, and the ley wanderer gains 5 temporary hp for each spell ended in this way. Teleport (3/Day). The ley wanderer magically teleports itself and up to six willing creatures holding hands with the ley wanderer, along with any equipment they are wearing or carrying, to a location the ley wanderer is familiar with, up to 100 miles away. If the destination is a location rich in magical energy, such as a ley line, the ley wanderer can teleport up to 300 miles away. Bonus Actions Drain Magic Item. The ley wanderer drains the magic from an item it is holding. A magic item with charges loses 1d6 charges, an item with limited uses per day loses one daily use, and a single-use item, such as a potion or spell scroll is destroyed. All other magic items have their effects suppressed for 1 minute. The ley wanderer gains 5 temporary hp each time it drains a magic item. A drained item regains its magic after 24 hours. Reactions Absorb Spell. When a creature the ley wanderer can see within 30 feet of it casts a spell, the ley wanderer can absorb the spell's energy, countering it. This works like the counterspell spell, except the ley wanderer must always make a spellcasting ability check, no matter the spell's level. Its ability check for this is +7. If it successfully counters the spell, the ley wanderer gains 5 temporary hp for each level of the spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

