# Lich, Hierophant

**description**: A pious word always on its dusty lips, the lich seemed content to count its beads and let dust rattle in its throat. Until, at last, it turned to us and said "I will share my dark blessings with your feeble souls"—and unleashed horrors I shudder to remember." —Final words of Lady Nardial, Commander of the Silver Squadron The hierophant lich is a dry, dusty skeleton with fragments of hair and skin and a fierce, raging light of unholy zeal blazing in its eyes. It is often crowned by a black halo, wreathed in purple flames, or wielding a staff topped with a demonic head that whispers vile suggestions or wicked prophecies to it. Servants of Dark Gods. The hierophant lich is always a devout follower of a dark god, demon lord, arch-devil, or creature of outer darkness. When the hierophant's mortal lifetime would normally end, its dark master grants it additional life, so that it may continue to serve darkness. Usually, this gift is dispensed as part of the burial rites of the hierophant lich. The creature rises just as its body is about to be buried. In other cases, it leaves its tomb shortly after burial, or it stands up when the fires of its cremation are just starting to catch. Reborn at the Altar. Each hierophant lich has a sacred vessel that protects its vile soul. So long as this altar, unholy relic, or other sacred object remains whole, the hierophant lich is never permanently slain. Pure Evil Bones. The bones of a hierophant lich are said to contain deep, unholy power that serves to produce unholy scrolls, wardings, or wands. Undead Nature. A hierophant lich doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. The Council of Hierophants Rumors in dark corners of the world claim that hierophant liches are allied in a grand purpose: to bring their dark gods to rule and to corrupt or destroy all other gods. This Council of Hierophants, which meets in darkness several times each year, chooses new targets among the pious, corrupts ley lines, and sends dark visions and promises of power to the corruptible. Several expend great effort on summoning silver-tongued servants to sway the young to pursue decadent studies or swear their service to the Void and dark gods. Others work with blackguards and doomspeakers (see pages 398-399) to burn down what they cannot corrupt. Some evidence supports this council meeting in the Western Wastes, in the Scarlet Citadel, and even in the ruins of Roshgazi. Their loose affiliation makes it difficult to combat them, and some believe that most of their plotting is done via unholy messengers. A Hierophant Lich's Lair A hierophant lich often dwells in an underground temple, a ruined cathedral in a lost city, or in the catacombs and tunnels deep beneath a famous tomb or monument. These may be in the wilderness or (in some cases) within a city largely unaware of the hierophant lich's presence. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the hierophant lich can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the lich can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: The hierophant lich gains an unholy shield of protection in the form of a shadowy halo of shifting purple. It gains 20 temporary hp until initiative count 20 on the next round. The hierophant lich calls on its god to smite a creature that the lich can see within 60 feet of it. The target must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the target fails, it is poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round. Channeling its god's energy, the hierophant lich grants up to five allies advantage on their next attack rolls.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: any evil alignment
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

