# Lich, Pact

**description**: Despite its frail appearance, the rotting, fiendish creature commands considerable arcane power. The first pact lich was a warlock whose patron was a demon lord of undeath. In a moment of whimsy, the demon granted the warlock's petition to become a powerful undead. Soul Devourer. A pact lich must feed souls to its patron weekly to retain its lich status. It does this by reducing a creature to 0 hp within 120 feet of a diamond. Diamonds act as conduits for pact liches to send souls to their patrons, but only fist-sized or larger diamonds will do. A lich that forgets or refuses to sacrifice souls begins to physically fall apart, enduring incredible pain. Rebirth by Patron's Mercy. When a pact lich's body is destroyed, the will and mind of the lich drains from it and returns to its patron. The patron decides whether to keep the pact lich or allow it to return to the Material Plane. Patrons are fickle beings and may decide to keep the lich for weeks or even centuries as punishment for its failure or may choose to never allow the lich to return. If the lich is allowed to return to the Material Plane, its body reforms in its lair next to a diamond it has used to send souls to its patron. Because the destruction of such diamonds means the possibility of eternal death, a pact lich usually hides many of these diamonds within its lair. Undead Nature. A pact lich does not require air, food, drink, or sleep. A Pact of a Different Color The pact lich represented here is based on the Fiend patron. Not all patrons, especially not those of good or neutral alignment, would allow their warlocks to take the steps needed to become a pact lich. Those who revel in undeath, however, take special glee in unleashing such a destructive force on the world and reaping the souls the pact lich harvests. If you want to bring a pact lich into play from a different patron, some changes should be considered. Damage resistances, immunities, and actions like Hurl Through Hell can all be changed to reflect a different pact, like resistance to all weapons not made with cold iron for a pact lich whose patron is one of the Fey Lords or Ladies or hurtling a creature through the kaleidoscopic unknown of the Elemental Planes for a pact lich whose patron is a Genie Lord. A Pact Lich's Lair Reviled by the living, a pact lich often dwells in an underground catacomb, an abandoned fortress, or a forgotten necropolis. The lich's need to feed souls to its patron keeps it from moving too far from civilization, however. The lair takes on aspects of the lich's benefactor and is haunted by creatures close to the patron's essence. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the pact lich can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the lich can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: All creatures within 30 feet of the pact lich magically and randomly swap places. In addition, all of the creatures (including the lich) look and sound like one of the creatures that was affected. Creatures with truesight are able to see through this illusion. On initiative count 20 on the next round, the illusion fades, but the translocated creatures are not returned to their original places. The pact lich calls on its patron to smite a creature that the lich can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) necrotic and 17 (5d6) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the target fails, it is stunned until initiative count 20 on the next round. Channeling its patron's energy, the pact lich raises up to five dead creatures as a skeleton or zombie like the animate dead spell. Regional Effects The region containing a pact lich's lair is warped by its magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Roads within 20 miles of the lair become strangely mazelike and confusing. Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom (Survival) check while traveling or become lost within the area. Lost creatures can repeat the check every subsequent hour and regain their bearings on a success. Scrying and all other divination and detection spells within 1 mile of the lair fail unless the caster succeeds on a DC 16 Intelligence (Arcana) check. A failed check means that the spell is still expended, but without any positive result. The pact lich and all other undead have advantage on saving throws against effects that turn undead when within 1 mile of the lair. If the pact lich dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: any evil alignment
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

