# Life Broker

**description**: A silvery breastplate gleams under robes of sable velvet and snow-white silk. Beneath arching black brows, the elf's sea-green eyes miss nothing. Though the life broker holds the respect of all fey folk, it rarely treats with its own kind. Instead, it looks to mortals, as they are both product and consumer for its trade—the buying and selling of lifetimes, in whole or in part. Buy and Sell Life. Those who seek the life broker do so for two reasons: to trade some of their remaining life for valuables or to purchase more life for themselves. Many of those willing to sell their life do so to secure enough money to aid a loved one, while those seeking to extend their lives are often the rich, powerful, or influential. The life broker can be convinced to take other forms of payment, such as memories of a loved one, a particular talent for song, or similar esoteric valuables, depending on the amount of life the petitioner wishes in exchange. By the Rules. The life broker never takes what is not offered to it, following unspoken rules set by some unknown entity when the first life brokers appeared. However, those who attack the broker are assumed to be willing to give up their lives. The lives of those the broker defeats in self defense become the broker's to do with as it chooses. Draw Life Essence. The life broker can spend 10 minutes coaxing the life essence out of a willing creature, taking only the agreed-upon amount of time from the creature's maximum lifetime. The life essence appears as a rosy mist that rises from the mouth, nose, or skin of the creature and snakes into a carved crystal vial in the broker's cloak, where it takes on the form of a crimson liquid. A creature that drinks such a vial gains the life stored within it, provided the life broker gave the vial willingly. If the life broker draws all the remaining life from a creature, that creature dies, and it can be returned to life only by means of a wish spell. Life Reading. If the life broker spends 1 minute studying a mortal creature it can see within 30 feet of it, the broker can determine the remainder of that creature's natural life, to the second. Magic Resistance . The life broker has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Necrotic Weapons . The life broker's weapon attacks are magical. When the life broker hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4d8 necrotic damage (included in the attack). Actions Multiattack . The life broker makes three Rapier attacks. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing plus 18 (4d8) necrotic damage. Life Feast (Recharge 5-6). The life broker pulls life from hostile creatures within 30 feet of it that aren't Constructs or Undead. Each such creature in the area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The life broker gains temporary hp equal to the single highest amount of necrotic damage dealt and has advantage on attack rolls until the end of its next turn. Bonus Actions Quick-Footed. The life broker takes the Dash, Disengage, or Dodge action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

