# Lintwerth

**description**: The dust mephit Lintwerth is the familiar of Imeckus Stroon in the Kingmaker Adventure Path . You can adjust these statistics to reflect that of any other mephit by adjusting his abilities as appropriate—he doesn’t even need to play the role of a familiar if you don’t want him to. If not a familiar, he’s equivalent to a CR 6 creature (in which case, consider reducing his natural armor bonus by five to adjust his AC to something more appropriate for a CR 6 creature). Traits Innate Spellcasting. Lintwerth’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: faerie fire, sending, sleep Death Burst. When Lintwerth dies, he explodes in a burst of dust. Each creature within 5 feet of him must then succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. A blinded creature can repeat the saving throw on each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Regeneration. Lintwerth regains 10 hit points at the start of his turn if he has at least 1 hit point and is in dust or sand. Sleepless. Lintwerth can’t be put to sleep by magic. Actions Multiattack. Lintwerth makes three claw attacks or casts a spell and makes two claw attacks. Dusty Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d4+6) slashing damage. Blinding Breath. Lintwerth exhales a 15-foot cone of blinding dust. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Cloud of Dust (Recharge 5–6). Lintwerth breathes a cloud of dust in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in the area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The air in this area remains thick with dust for the next 1 minute. Creatures that breathe who start their turn in the area must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed until the start of their next turn as they are wracked by violent coughing and sneezing. Elemental Form (2/Day). Lintwerth magically polymorphs into an elemental with a challenge rating of 6 or less and can remain in this form for up to 9 hours. He can choose whether his equipment falls to the ground, melds with its new form, or is worn by the new form. He reverts to his true form if he dies or falls unconscious. He can revert to his true form using a bonus action on his turn. While in a new form, he retains his game statistics and ability to speak, but his AC, movement modes, Strength, and Dexterity are replaced by those of the new form, and he gains any special senses, proficiencies, traits, actions, and reactions (except class features, legendary actions, and lair actions) that the new form has but that he lacks. Lintwerth can cast spells with verbal or somatic components in his new form. The new form’s attacks count as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistances and immunity to nonmagical attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: elemental (mephit)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

