# Linzi (Level 7)

**description**: The storyteller Linzi left her birthplace in Galt years ago to seek a higher education in the arts in fabled Pitax, but it wasn’t long before she arrived in that town that she realized the accolades and fame surrounding the region’s artistic triumphs more resembled hearsay and propaganda. While she could sense that the city’s artisans were struggling to produce actual works of art, the overwhelming regime of suppression and meddling put in place by King Irovetti made that difficult at best. As a result, Linzi’s time in Pitax fostered more a sense of resistance and rebellion within her than actual inspiration for her stories. Inevitably, these themes crept into her artwork, and when a raunchy limerick she wrote about King Irovetti became unexpectedly popular, she was expelled for “impudence toward persons of the highest esteem.” Linzi wasn’t daunted. She felt she’d learned all she could from artisans in Pitax and headed east with a new goal: to find a notable hero or heroes who could serve as her muse, as inspiration for what she felt would be her masterpiece: a gripping tale of adventuring triumph in the face of starkest evil. Her journeys eventually took her into the hinterlands of Brevoy, where she caught wind of Lady Jamandi Aldori’s call for heroes. Here, Linzi realized, was the opportunity she’d been waiting for! Traits Equipment. Leather armor +1 , rapier +1 , shortbow +1 , arrows (20), potions of healing (3), explorer’s pack, lute. Bardic Inspiration (3/Day). Linzi uses her bonus action on her turn to choose one creature other than herself within 60 feet of you who can hear you. That creature gains one Bardic Inspiration die, a d6. Once within the next 10 minutes, the creature can roll the die and add the number rolled to one ability check, attack roll, or saving throw it makes. The creature can wait until after it rolls the d20 before deciding to use the Bardic Inspiration die, but must decide before the GM says whether the roll succeeds or fails. Once the Bardic Inspiration die is rolled, it is lost. A creature can have only one Bardic Inspiration die at a time. Linzi regains all of her expended uses of Bardic Inspiration when she finishes a short or long rest. Brave. Linzi has advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Halfling Nimbleness. Linzi can move through the space of any creature that is of a size larger than hers. Jack of All Trades. Linzi can add half her proficiency bonus (+3), rounded down, to any ability check she makes that doesn’t already include her proficiency bonus. Lucky. When Linzi rolls 1 on the d20 for an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, she can reroll the die and must use the new roll. Naturally Stealthy. Linzi can attempt to hide even when she is obscured only by a creature that is at least one size larger than her. Song of Rest. If Linzi or any friendly creatures who can hear her performance regain hit points at the end of a short rest by spending one or more Hit Dice, each of those creatures regains an extra 1d6 hit points. Spellcasting. Linzi is a 7th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). She has the following bard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): dancing lights, minor illusion, mage hand 1st level (4 slots): healing word, heroism, hideous laughter, shield, sleep 2nd level (3 slots): enhance ability, haste, hold person, see invisibility 3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, major image 4th level (1 slot): dimension door Actions Rapier +1. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage. Shortbow +1. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage. Countercharm. As an action, Linzi can start a performance that lasts until the end of her next turn. During that time, she and any friendly creatures within 30 feet of her have advantage on saving throws against being frightened or charmed. A creature must be able to hear her to gain this benefit. The performance ends early if she is incapacitated or silenced—or if she voluntarily ends it (no action required).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: humanoid (halfling)
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 17526

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

