# Living Portent

**description**: Living portents are embodiments of prophecy sent by deities or other cosmic forces. These Celestials descend to Material Plane worlds in the form of falling stars. When the living portents impact the earth, they carve great craters, yet miraculously, none who live in the impact zone are harmed. These beings of light then assume Humanoid forms to blend in with the inhabitants of the world. Living portents seek out beings who will play a part in the prophecies they serve, and as the living portents search, they relate fragments of the prophecies to those they encounter. Variant: Servants of Living Stars Some stars in the sky are Elder Evils, alien beings of godlike power from the reality-defying Far Realm. A living portent can be a fragment of these beings’ will. These living portents are Aberrations instead of Celestials and are typically chaotic evil. They replace any radiant damage in their stat block with necrotic or psychic damage (DM’s choice). Their spells might also be different. Some known Elder Evils include the following: Acamar. A dead star that consumes other stars or sidereal bodies it encounters. Caiphon, the Dream Whisperer. A purple star whose guidance and minions seem to help for a time but whose influence inevitably leads to disaster. Hadar, the Dark Hunger. A cinder-red dying star that siphons life from its minions to avert its own demise. Khirad, the Star of Secrets. A blue-white star whose gifts grant insight but also reveal terrible truths. Zhudun, the Corpse Star. A dead star that whispers of the power to defy death. Traits Brilliance (True Form Only). The living portent sheds bright light for 30 feet and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Spellcasting. The living portent casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability: 2/day: C ure Wounds 1/day each: Divination , Greater R estoration Actions Multiattack. The living portent makes two Radiant Strike attacks. Radiant Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d12 + 3) radiant damage. Prophetic Blessing. The living portent magically infuses the power of its prophecy into another willing creature the living portent can see within 30 feet of itself. The target’s hit point maximum and current hit points increase by 7 (1d8 + 3), and it gains a prophecy die, a d8. Once during each of the creature’s turns, when it fails an ability check or saving throw or misses an attack roll, it can roll the prophecy die and add the number rolled to the total, potentially changing the outcome. The blessing ends after 1 hour or when the living portent ends the blessing (no action required) or uses this action again. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The living portent magically transforms into a Humanoid while retaining its game statistics (other than its size and Brilliance trait). The transformation ends if the living portent is reduced to 0 hit points or uses a bonus action to end it. Reactions Price of Defiance. When the living portent is damaged by a creature that it can see within 120 feet of itself, radiant power sears the creature. The creature must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small or Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 27234
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Book of Many Things

