# Living Idol (Template)

**description**: Certain star systems are mystically interdicted, meaning that from the heart of their burning star to the distant nebulae and asteroid clouds at the verge of interstellar space, the entirety of that system is sealed against dimensional travel to the Astral Plane and the Outer Planes beyond. Most celestial, fiends, and similar creatures native to the Outer Planes (not to be mistaken with those from the Inner Planes like elementals) brought to the Material are ordinary examples of their own kind, capable of being forced back to their home plane by spells such as banishment . When an outsider native to the Outer Planes dies in such a system, there is no natural current for their planar energies to return to their native realm, nor are their fusions of body and soul drawn into the star itself as mortal souls are. Instead, their bodies decay and their spirits are warped by the planar forces that seal away the influence of gods, imprisoning the outsider forever. Imprisoned outsiders are no longer treated as extraplanar entities, forever bound to the Material and diminished in power and influence. Disconnected from their native plane, these outsiders drift over the course of their immortal years, shifting in outlook and ideology in ways they were never capable of before; imprisoned devils might discover their binding maddening and divert from their lawful ideas and angels may be driven to corruption by millennia of suffering and hopelessness. Imprisoned outsiders are unpredictable, usually dangerous, and never what they appear to be on the surface. Worse yet, imprisoned outsiders contain an untampered spark of divinity within themselves that responds to the adoration and veneration of worshippers. In a paradoxical existence, these imprisoned outsiders become a form of idol, capable of granting unusual supernatural abilities to their followers in exchange for a demanding toll they exert on these creatures. Cults of living idols arise in the remote corners of the world where desperate masses cling to these extreme demagogues. Some imprisoned outsiders use the worship of their cults to spread hope and good will, while most fall into decadence or entropy, becoming blights on the societies they invest. Parasitic Faith. No matter the good intentions they may possess, living idols are little more than spiritual parasites clinging to the immortal souls of living creatures to justify their presence on the Material Plane. Living idols themselves do not fully understand the means by which they are able to enact such change on both themselves and their followers, or how they can become so entangled with mortal souls to begin with. Each living idol has its own notions, and each one is colored by the living idol’s personal outlook and is equally as mercurial. Living idols often indulge themselves in mortal pleasures and behaviors once ignored in their planar residences. Creatures once obsessed with death become fascinated by life, and the more forbidden the fruit the more tempting it becomes to the living idol, leading them down anathema orgies to discovery and excess. Cults. The fiefdoms of living idols vary between clandestine monasteries located far from civilization, to seditious cults lingering in the shadows of great arcologies, to decadent churches of worship drifting through the Gulf in great asteroid colonies and everything in between. There is little rhyme or reason to a living idol’s choice of surroundings, short of convenience and accessibility to followers. Each habitat is as unique as the living idol that inhabits it, and equally likely to be torn down and changed when the living idol experiences a fitful shift of mortality on their journey of personal discovery. Each cult that venerates a living idol is equally unique and as likely to be subtle and insidious as they are bombastic and performative. Living Idol Template A living idol who chooses to accept the veneration of followers can draw these willing supplicants into a spiritual pact that binds follower and outsider together. This bond can only be forged willingly and cannot be the result of magical coercion. The bonding process requires 1 hour and for the supplicant to open its mind and soul to the living idol. Typically, this takes the form of a ceremony suited to the living idol’s personal tastes. Once complete, the living idol considers the supplicant a worshipper and gains access to a suite of powers based on the number of active worshippers it maintains. A living idol may sever the tie between itself and a worshipper at any time. A living idol’s powers are based on the number of worshippers it has, as noted below. At each threshold of power, a living idol gains a number of powers from the Living Idol Powers list. Challenge. Applying the living idol template may alter a creature’s Challenge Rating. Usually its CR will remain the same, but increasing one or more of its attack bonus, damage, number of attacks, or hit points are likely to raise its CR by +1. Entrapped Rejuvenation. After a living idol is killed, it leaves a powerful impression on the ethereal plane for one week. After this time the living idol begins to rebuild its body, a process which takes 1d10 days. During the revival process the imprisoned outsider’s body begins to rebuild itself from coagulated essences of the ethereal plane and is considered unconscious. If the creature is slain again before its body fully reforms, the process begins again. After the rebuild time has elapsed, the imprisoned outsider is reborn on the Material, fully healed. The only way to permanently slay an imprisoned outsider is with a carefully worded wish spell or by transporting it back to the Outer Planes by means of a powerful spell such as gate and killing it there. Demagogue. A living idol both gains power and may bestow power on creatures that worship and revere it. While not true deities capable of granting spells to their followers, pacts with the divine spark of a living idol create unusual spiritual bonds that transcend the material. This ability is further detailed below. Translocation Loss. A living idol loses access to any innate spellcasting or ability that allows them to teleport , if the base creature possessed them. Additionally, it loses access to any summoning innate spellcasting or ability that the base creature possessed. Imprisoned Outsider Echo. Imprisoned by the unique nature of interdicted system cosmology, an imprisoned outsider’s metaphysical essence lingers on, effectively imprinted onto the structure of the Material, functioning like a bizarre form of phylactery or the conditions that imprison ghosts past their physical death. If destroyed, the imprisoned outsider begins to reconstitute as a result of its Entrapped Rejuvenation ability—whether it wants to or not—and during this period, a physical manifestation of the process is visible as a blurry, translucent outline of its appearance at the point of its destruction, like a retinal burn that only grows more cohesive with time rather than fading. While the echo itself is only vaguely tangible, the echo is vulnerable to non-physical attacks, subject to the same immunities and resistances possessed by the creature itself. Destruction of the echo only starts the process over, and the echo will move to the nearest unoccupied position in which reconstitution is possible, should local conditions present a problem. During this period of reconstitution, an imprisoned outsider is especially vulnerable to spells that bind or imprison souls and outsiders, such as the planar binding spell. The imprisoned outsider has disadvantage on its saving throw versus these spells as applicable and cannot gain advantage on saving throws against these spells. Living Idol Powers As living idols gain worshippers, they also obtain unique supernatural abilities that grant them special power over their worshippers or additional strength for themselves. A living idol gains one of the below powers when it gains its first worshipper. At each following threshold the living idol gains one additional power. Once chosen these abilities may not be changed, and if the living idol’s number of worshippers fluctuates, so too does its number of powers. A living idol may choose which powers it loses if it loses worshippers, though some require a minimum living idol rank. Rank Worshippers Powers 1 (Least) 1-10 1 2 (Lesser) 11-50 2 3 (Minor) 51-100 3 4 (Intermediate) 101-200 4 5 (Major) 201-500 5 6 (Greater) 501-1,000 6 7 (Eminent) 1,001-2,000 7 8 (Paramount) 2,001-3,000 8 9 (Transcendent) 3,001+ 9 The save DCs for living idol powers are 8 + the living idol’s proficiency bonus + its Charisma modifier. Armor of Faith. While not wearing any armor and not using a shield, the living idol’s AC becomes 12 + its Dexterity modifier + its Charisma modifier. Changes to AC can affect the living idol’s CR. Blessing of Power. A living idol may use its action to grant a blessing of power to a worshipper with a touch. This blessing grants the worshipper advantage on ability checks for one ability score of the living idol’s choice and lasts for 24 hours multiplied by the living idol’s rank. The living idol may revoke this blessing at any distance (no action required). Channel Energy (3/Day). As an action, the living idol can release a pulse of healing energy, if good-aligned, or necrotic energy, if evil-aligned. A neutral living idol may choose either kind of energy upon taking this power but cannot change its decision later. The pulse radiates in a 60-ft. radius sphere centered on the living idol. If the living idol channels healing energy, each creature in the area regains a number of hit points equal to 1d6 multiplied by the living idol’s Challenge. If the living idol channels necrotic energy, each creature in the area must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take necrotic damage equal to 1d6 multiplied by the living idol’s Challenge. A creature that saves against this ability instead takes half damage. Conceal. The living idol is warded from divination spells, as if under the effects of nondetection. Demagogue’s Aura. The living idol radiates a holy or unholy presence and gains a +2 bonus to AC against creatures of an opposite alignment (good/evil/law/chaos). In addition, the living idol has advantage on saving throws made to avoid being charmed, frightened, or possessed by a creature of an opposite alignment. A neutral idol may choose which alignment to be protected against but cannot change its decision later. A living idol of Greater rank or higher becomes immune to being charmed, frightened, or possessed by a creature of an opposite alignment and had advantage on saving throws made to resist the spells of a creature of an opposite alignment. Changes to AC and condition immunities can affect the living idol’s CR. Enthrall (1/Day). As an action, the living idol can trigger subtle reverence in the minds of nearby creatures. This ability functions similarly to an enthrall spell, though the living idol need not speak—its semi-divine presence manifests as a gentle ecstatic hum in the minds of witnesses, potentially swaying the weak-willed toward veneration. An unwilling target can negate this effect with a successful Wisdom saving throw. Feast or Famine (1/Month). The living idol can reward its followers by exerting its influence over the weather, usually by manifesting rain to relieve droughts and yield fertile crops through an effect similar to control weather. Conversely, angered idols can turn the weather against their followers to show displeasure or to reflect their moods towards trespassers, creating more hostile seasonal effects. When the living idol changes the weather conditions, it may change a chosen condition by two stages, up or down. Immortal Promise. The living idol grants a form of immortality to some of its worshippers. Each day, the living idol selects a number of its worshippers equal to its rank plus its Charisma modifier. Within 1 mile of the living idol, these selected worshippers do not age; do not need to eat, drink, or bathe; and do not suffer any ill effects from extreme heat or extreme cold. The recipients of this gift can change daily on the living idol’s whim. The living idol must be of Greater rank or higher to select this power. Locate Worshipper. A living idol can precisely locate any creature that worships it that is on the same plane. Possess Worshipper. The living idol can, as an action, possess one of its worshippers. A living idol may only possess worshippers within line of sight unless the living idol can perceive through the creature’s senses or vice-versa (such as with the Share Senses idol power). While possessing a worshipper, the living idol’s life force occupies the host’s body. The host’s soul is imprisoned with the living idol but can still use its own senses (though it can’t assert any influence or use even purely mental abilities). The living idol can communicate with its host telepathically. The host retains all of its physical abilities but substitutes its mental ability scores and proficiencies for the living idol’s. Moving outside of the living idol’s line of sight does not eject the living idol. If the host’s body is killed, the living idol returns to its original body. If the living idol’s body is slain, the living idol’s soul is ejected from the host’s body as it begins its rejuvenation process. A living idol may end this possession at any time (no action required). Reanimate Sacrifice. When a creature with an Intelligence score of 3 or higher is sacrificed by a living idol’s worshippers, the living idol may choose to reanimate the creature’s corpse as if by animate dead, a living idol of Intermediate rank may instead reanimate the corpse as if using create undead, and a living idol of Eminent rank may reanimate the corpse as if using create undead into its choice of ghoul, ghast, or wight. A living idol may create any number of undead, but only maintains control over a number of undead with a combined CR equal to or less than the living idol’s rank. Revelry (1/Day). As an action, the living idol can thrum with power, affecting a number of enthralled supplicants equal to its rank with an effect similar to heroes’ feast. The living idol must have the enthrall ability to select this ability. Sacrifice Worshipper. A living idol can instantly kill any worshipper that is on the same plane as the living idol as a bonus action. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or die. On a successful save the target instead takes 10 (3d6) points of damage and is poisoned for 1 round. A living idol that successfully slays a worshipper within 30 ft. with this ability increases its own AC and Strength score by 2 for the next hour. A living idol can only use this ability once per day per follower. A living idol must be of at least Intermediate rank to select this power. Share Senses. As an action, a living idol with this ability may share all of the senses of one worshipper that it knows by name. A living idol may end this ability at any time (requiring no action). A living idol must be at least Intermediate rank to select this power. Supernatural Presence. The living idol’s presence is supernaturally unsettling or captivating. Foes that start their turns within 60 feet of the living idol must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened or poisoned (the living idol’s choice) for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the living idol’s Supernatural Presence for the next 24 hours. Living Idol Entropy Power gained by living idols is not permanent, and worse yet, forgoing a connection with worshippers creates a dangerous vulnerability in the living idol’s divine spark, causing the entity to hemorrhage power over time. Once a living idol accepts its first worshipper it enters into an unending parasitic relationship with the adoration and faith of its worshippers. Worshippers must maintain the semi-divine power a living idol has achieved through offerings. Without sacrifice and veneration, living idols eventually become inert vessels for a trapped, frustrated entity, relying on whispered promises to entice the weak-willed to rebuild their congregations. A living idol that doesn’t receive monthly sacrifices whose sacrifice values total at least its Challenge x 100 gp (or au in the Aethera setting) also reduces their Charisma, Intelligence, and Wisdom scores by 2 at the start of the following month and loses the use of one special ability. This is permanent, though the points and abilities can be regained through sacrifices and worship (see below). A living idol reduced to 0 in any one of these ability scores falls unconscious and enters a torpor state and is incapable of using abilities with the exception of telepathy (if it possesses such an ability.) A living idol in this torpor state reduces its Constitution score by 2 each day. If the living idol reaches 0 Constitution its body petrifies and it becomes indistinguishable from an ordinary statue and incapable of using telepathy unless it is in physical contact with another creature. Sacrifices Sacrifices come in a number of forms—sacred feasts, magic items, the weapons of slain enemies, aetheric energy, and the blood of slaughtered creatures are just a few possibilities. For a living idol to benefit from such offerings, it must be offered up in the living idol’s presence—typically within a 20-ft. radius of the living idol—and can’t be removed or disturbed for 1 day. Sacrificed Items. The sacrifice value of feasts and treasures is based on their standard costs. All such items must be freely given. After 1 day, sacrificed food spoils and nonmagical treasure mysteriously vanishes from sight. Magic items offered in this manner innately resist being sacrificed, requiring the living idol to make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw in order to receive the sacrifice. If the living idol fails this saving throw, worshippers may attempt to sacrifice the item again 24-hours later. Artifacts cannot be sacrificed. Blood Sacrifice. Slaughtered living creatures also increase the power of an evil idol when sacrificed. A nonsentient creature, such a plant or insect, is not a suitable sacrifice for an evil idol, and attempting to sacrifice such a creature may offend the living idol. Animal sacrifices offer the least benefit; a creature with an Intelligence score of 1 or 2 has a sacrifice value of 250 au multiplied by its CR. The tortured awareness of fate felt by a creature with an Intelligence score of 3 or greater offers the most advantage to the living idol, having a value equal to 500 au multiplied by the creature’s CR when it’s slaughtered, plus additional au equal to the creature’s Intelligence bonus (minimum 0). A nonevil idol that accepts a blood sacrifice immediately shifts its alignment to evil. Sacrificial Limits. Although cults may offer sacrifices as if their idols were insatiable, the benefits an idol can gain in a single month are limited. The maximum sacrifice value an idol can benefit from in a month is equal to its Challenge x 500 gp/au. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Corbel; panose-1:2 11 5 3 2 2 4 2 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1610611985 1073783883 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.H1Body, li.H1Body, div.H1Body {mso-style-name:"H1 Body"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-next:Normal; margin-top:12.0pt; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:none; page-break-after:avoid; mso-hyphenate:none; tab-stops:9.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; text-transform:uppercase; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold;}p.AetheraStatBlock1, li.AetheraStatBlock1, div.AetheraStatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Aethera Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Corbel",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;} @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Corbel; panose-1:2 11 5 3 2 2 4 2 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1610611985 1073783883 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.H1Body, li.H1Body, div.H1Body {mso-style-name:"H1 Body"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-next:Normal; margin-top:12.0pt; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-line-height-rule:exactly; mso-pagination:none; page-break-after:avoid; mso-hyphenate:none; tab-stops:9.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; text-transform:uppercase; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:JA; font-weight:bold;}p.AetheraStatBlock1, li.AetheraStatBlock1, div.AetheraStatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Aethera Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Corbel",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;} @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Corbel; panose-1:2 11 5 3 2 2 4 2 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1610611985 1073783883 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.AetheraStatBlock1, li.AetheraStatBlock1, div.AetheraStatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Aethera Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Corbel",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;} @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Corbel; panose-1:2 11 5 3 2 2 4 2 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1610611985 1073783883 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.AetheraStatBlock1, li.AetheraStatBlock1, div.AetheraStatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Aethera Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Corbel",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Expansion: 32483

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

