# Lizardfolk Bloodeye

**description**: Lizardfolk prefer warm, tropical climes, but they’re willing to settle in any humid region—the more moisture in the air, the better. Even in colder climates, lizardfolk can be found in any sufficiently marshy environment. Bogs and wetlands are favorites. Their scales protect both against weapons and the moisture in their native environments. Coloring and hue vary wildly with environment and diet. Lizardfolk aren’t especially hostile unless they feel their territory is threatened—which they often feel, because it often is. But for respectful travelers, entering lizardfolk territory need be no great hardship. Lizardfolk cultures often take up a specific trade, like boatmaking, fletching, weaving, or navigating, and they sell their services to travelers in need, including lizardfolk from other places. Homeland Protectors . Adventurers cross paths with lizardfolk while trekking through their homelands. The reptilian humanoids watch travelers who skirt too close to sources of food and shelter, attacking those who take more than they need. Many lizardfolk dwell in caverns and abandoned ruins for protection. Treasure-seekers who delve into these places are typically given one warning before the attack begins. Focused and Loyal. Most lizardfolk speak plainly, viewing blunt honesty as a sign of respect. When they make a vow or personal promise, they do all they can to honor that word. Lizardfolk who swear to destroy an enemy follow their quarry to the ends of the earth. Marshland Tyrants. In times of crisis, such as a food shortage, an evil lizardfolk leader can exploit the emergency, oppressing others in the name of defending their territory. But there are always other local lizardfolk tribes who oppose such aggressive, expansionist posturing; they often seek the aid of others who value freedom from tyranny. Traits Amphibious. The bloodeye can breathe air and water. Actions Multiattack. The bloodeye makes one Bite or one Bola attack and uses Bloodeye Bolt or Mesmeric Lure, if available. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. Bola. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target is restrained by the bola. A creature can use their action to make a DC 10 Strength check, freeing themself or another creature within their reach from the bola on a success. Dealing 5 slashing damage to the bola (AC 10) destroys it and frees a creature restrained by it without harming them. Bloodeye Bolt ( 3 /Day). The bloodeye shoots blood from their eyes at one creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Mesmeric Lure ( 3 /Day) . The bloodeye hypnotically stares at one creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or all creatures other than the bloodeye are invisible to them until the end of the bloodeye’s next turn. Reactions Reptilian Escape ( 1 /Day). If the bloodeye fails a Strength or Dexterity saving throw, they lose their tail and succeed instead. They regrow their tail when they finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Lizardfolk)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

