# Lobismuller

**description**: Meigas Meigas come from the Land of Dreams, where mortal minds wander while they sleep and use the substance of the land to build the dreams that run through their heads while they slumber. The Land of Dreams is said to be part of the fey realms, but can only be entered through dreaming, except by the most powerful of creatures, or by the fey that dwell there, including the meiga. Meigas differ widely in form and ability, but always appear as female. Clothing preference varies by individual, but meigas typically prefer bright colors and bold patterns. While all meiga can magically change their form to blend with mortal populations, their apparent age always shows through. If a meiga’s true appearance is elderly, then she appears elderly in any form she takes, while a more maiden-like meiga is always youthful when magically disguised. Dream Weapons. The meiga’s weapons are formed of dream-stuff and have a link to the Land of Dreams. When mortals are hit with such weapons, the pain is increased as their mind relives past pains from memory, brought forth by the meiga’s control over dreams. Functionaries of the Dream Realm. While in their own realm, a meiga serves a particular function in maintaining the dreamscapes of mortals. The cartuxeira oversees premonitory dreams of future events. The lobismuller is the bringer of nightmares. The vedoira are caretakers of dreams in which the spirits of the dead make contact with the living; their purview over dream communication means they are also overseers of those who are contacted via the dream spell. Other types of meigas do exist, exerting their particular influence over the dreams of mortals according to their sphere of influence. Summoned to Serve. In the Land of Dreams, meigas are typically not hostile, unless waking mortals come and interfere with their duties or disrupt the dreaming of sleepers. However, spellcasters aware of their existence and the powers available to them in the waking world often summon meigas (through spells such as conjure fey) to do their bidding. Such summoners should take great care not to lose control over a meiga, however, as they hold a grudge and will pursue vengeance against those foolish enough to let their mastery of the meiga slip. RARE MEIGAS While the meigas described in this book are the most common and best-known of their kind, other meiga dream-spirits can be encountered more rarely. Their abilities are generally a mystery and they are known by their particular behavior. Chuchonas. The most dangerous of all meigas, chuchonas appear with different faces or transformed into fanged vampires, but also can take the form of insects, most often bumblebees. They suck the blood of children, especially newborns, to steal their life essence to craft their ointments and potions. Feiticeira. These meigas live near rivers and streams, appearing as elderly women who still retain their loveliness. The feiticeira has a very beautiful voice that with her singing hypnotizes men and boys who approach the river and makes them go into the river, where they will drown to be later devoured. Lavandeira. These meigas surprise walkers who passes by a lavandeira (laundry house), inviting him to help her in the same direction as her, because otherwise, misfortune will befall his house. The Lavandeira will appear in the person's house and will end the pregnancy if there is one, steal the youngest of the children if there are any, or kill one of the spouses while they are sleeping, if there are no children at home. Marimanta . The origin of these meigas is unknown, but they can be invoked with complex rituals that draw them across both spatial and planar boundaries. They often wanders of their own free will between Dreamland and our world, entering houses where there is a child on which no blessings or protection have been used, and often abducts them to a place from which they never return for reasons and uses unknown to anyone. Meiga, Lobismuller The lobismuller delivers nightmares to the mortal minds that wander into the Land of Dreams. This is not done from malice, as nightmares are as natural to mortals as pleasant dreams. A lobismuller can transform into a sinister, wolf-like figure, ferocious and deadly. Those spellcasters that summon fey for their mortal purposes often choose a lobismuller for their more deadly form. A lobismuller usually appears as a mature woman in colorful clothing, though frayed and worn in spots. Her yellow eyes have a cold, calculating gaze. When on the hunt, she may adopt more primitive garb of animal skins befitting her inner wolfish nature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 30635
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Mediterranean Monsters

