# Lolth

**description**: Lolth, The Spider Queen Lolth, the Queen of Spiders, is the primary deity of the drow. Cruel and unforgiving, Lolth demands blood and sacrifice from her worshipers. Those who gain her favor are gifted with her boon, and those who do not are severely punished by Lolth herself. This has caused much infighting within the drow, as Houses fight against each other to bring the best sacrifices to the Spider Queen. In truth, Lolth does not have an ounce of care for her worshipers. She revels in the death and destruction done in her name. Her hatred spans millennia and goes back to when she was first exiled to the Abyss. To this day, each and every plan and scheme she endeavors are all for the downfall of those who sent her to the Demonweb Pits. Spider Queen. Lolth usually appears as a slender female drow dressed in silk made from spider webs. Her true form, however, is the epitome of the Queen of Spiders. Lolth has the upper half of a strikingly beautiful female drow, with long white hair and gleaming black and purplish eyes. Her humanoid torso has eight arms and is connected to the head of a giant black spider with eight glowing red eyes, two poisonous fangs, and eight chitinous legs that end in razor-sharp points. Vicious Sadist. Lolth is known for extreme cruelty and sadism. She takes great pleasure in inflicting pain and psychologically tormenting her prey. In the rare instances that she finds herself in combat, she will toy with her opponents first, giving them false hope that they might have a chance of defeating her, only to quickly turn the tables and reveal that she was never in any real trouble. She will prioritize targeting those who are beloved by all so she can revel in their agony as she slowly kills that target while the rest of her victims watch helplessly in horror. Deadly Foe. As a deity, Lolth is incredibly powerful and does not need weapons when fighting. She usually summons her faithful handmaidens, or yochlols, and select high-level drow servitors to fight for her. Lolth relies on her spellcasting abilities to confound her opponents and trap them in her steel-like webs. Each of her legs can be used as a spear and can stab and pierce creatures with ease as she goes for the kill with her poisonous fangs. Lolth's Lair The abode of Lolth is a treacherous realm known as the Demonweb Pits. There are many ways to access the 66th layer of the Abyss where the realm of the Demonweb can be found but getting out may be the biggest problem. The Demonweb is a mass of deep chasms, rocky gorges, tunnels, and pathways that stretch from all directions and are all full of webs, traps, and hungry denizens. No one has ever been able to map this maze-like plane because Lolth constantly changes paths when she spins her webs. The entire realm of Demonweb is difficult terrain, and any creature that seeks to traverse its web-filled tunnels will need to take care not to get caught in any of the webs lest they be food for Lolth’s faithful. The Pit, which resides at the bottom of the Demonweb, is a dark cavern Lolth occupies. The entire cavern is lit with blue flame torches scattered about its numerous alcoves. Thick webs cover every corner and also form a natural carpet on the floor, making walking more difficult for everyone except spiders and spider-kin alike. In the middle of the cavern is Lolth’s throne, just behind a stone altar used for sacrifices. Behind the throne is a set of golden doors through which are multiple passages to different planes and locations. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Lolth can take one of the following lair actions; she can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Lolth casts web (spell save DC 25, no components required) at 4 different points within her lair. Lolth doesn't need to see the points and doesn't need to maintain concentration on the spell. The webs lasts for 1 minute, until Lolth uses this lair action again, or until Lolth dies or is incapacitated. Lolth magically summons 2d4 phase spiders ( MM, pg. 334 ) or 1d3 driders ( MM, pg. 120 ) to appear in unoccupied spaces that she chooses within the lair. They vanish after 1 hour. Lolth magically summons a yochlol ( MM, pg. 65 ). It appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of Lolth and obeys Lolth without question. It remains for 10 minutes, until it or Lolth dies, or until Lolth dismisses it as an action. Regional Effects The region containing Lolth’s lair is warped by its magic, creating one or more of the following effects: Giant spiders and spider swarms infest the areas within 6 miles of the lair. These arachnids are aggressive and will immediately attack intruders. Surfaces within 6 miles of the lair are frequently covered by webs. Any creature touching these webs will be detected by Lolth's Web Sense. Webs within 6 miles of the lair appear and block paths or disappear and reveal new paths, making navigation in the area exceedingly difficult. If Lolth dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Discorporation. When Lolth drops to 0 hit points or dies, her body is destroyed but her essence travels back to her domain in the Abyss, and she is unable to take physical form for a time. Legendary Resistance (4/Day). If Lolth fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Limited Magic Immunity. Unless she wishes to be affected, Lolth is immune to spells of 6th level or lower. She has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects. Regeneration. If Lolth has at least 1 hit point, she regains 30 hit points at the start of her turn. Spider Climb. Lolth can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Web Sense. While in contact with a web, Lolth knows the exact location of any creature in contact with the same web. Web Walker. Lolth ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Actions Multiattack. Lolth uses Web. She then makes one Bite attack, one Whip attack, and two Foreleg attacks or uses Insidious Bolt three times. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) force damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is reduced to 0 hit points, unless it is immune to poison damage. Otherwise, the target takes 22 (4d10) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute on a failed save. Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) force damage plus 21 (6d6) poison damage, and the target has disadvantage to attack rolls and saving throws until the end of Lolth's next turn. In addition, the target must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 25 feet toward Lolth. Foreleg. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) force damage, and if the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 17). While grappled, the target is restrained, takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage at the start of each of Lolth's turns, and Lolth can't use one of her Foreleg attacks on another target. Insidious Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +17 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) poison damage and 14 (4d6) psychic damage, and the target is poisoned until the end of Lolth's next turn. While poisoned, the target can't use reactions and has disadvantage on saving throws. Web. Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one Huge or smaller creature. Hit: The creature is restrained by webbing. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 22 Strength check, escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 15, 20 hit points, resistance to bludgeoning damage, and immunity to acid, poison, and psychic damage. Spellcasting. Lolth casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 25): At will: alter self (can become a Medium female Drow when changing her appearance), detect magic, web 3/day each: confusion, dispel magic, dominate person, fly, teleport 1/day each: maddening darkness, psychic scream Legendary Actions Lolth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Lolth regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Insidious Poison. Lolth chooses one creature within 30 feet that she has poisoned. The target must make a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target uses its reaction to move up to half its speed as Lolth directs and make one weapon attack against a visible creature of Lolth's choice. Web. Lolth uses Web. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). Lolth makes a Whip or Foreleg attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). Lolth uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 28

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

