# Lorabella Crimsongaze

**description**: “I will wait ‘till it’s time for revenge. But make no mistake, in waiting, I will not rest.” Lorabella Crimsongaze is the Head of Military in the city of Cyherested. She is an elderly elf who has long blue straight hair and is quite fit. As the Head of Military, she oversees the training of new soldiers, the general state of the army, and the protection of the city from the dangers on the outside. Lorabella is among the few people who can contact the Prime Sorcerers directly. Lorabella’s Story In her youth, Lorabella wanted to see the world and be universally beloved. She and her parents lived in the forest upon which the City of Sorcerers now resides. She helped her parents with day-to-day tasks they needed to undertake to survive, but never liked the idea of a settled life. One day, her mother went out to forage for supplies, and she never returned. This wasn’t unusual for such a dangerous place as Tolia, but that had no effect on her father’s grief. For better or worse, he was changed. He started to train Lorabella to become a ferocious warrior with an iron will. Lorabella knew that her father was training her so that if it came to it, he didn’t have to lose his beloved daughter as well. Besides, Lorabella enjoyed her education immensely; she was a natural with weapons and she felt free in combat. Many years later, her father passed away and the city was established. Knowing Cyherested held opportunities and riches beyond her imagination, Lorabella became a citizen. She wanted to prove her worth and show off her skills, and began to fight for coin (as a performance) in taverns. As the years passed by, the restlessness in Lorabella’s heart never gave way. She thus gathered a few friends and formed an adventuring party. However, life had different plans for Lorabella. As soon as they left the city, they were faced with an army of blood-sucking monsters rushing out through the mountains and the forest. Lorabella lost all her friends in the attack, and barely made it back to the city with her life. Upon her return, she learned that the vampires of Kanrath had attacked. Furious, she joined the army to defend the city. And in the military, she found her true calling. She moved her way up the ranks through the years, giving little care to anything other than the military. Through the grueling training she put herself through, she took strength from her wrath against the vampires, whom she believed to be the worst of the worst. They had taken her friends, and she was sure that it was them who had taken her mother all those years ago. Holding on to her hate, she waited for the day of revenge. After about sixty years of joining the army, she became the Head of Military, and her first action was to lay siege on Kanrath to exterminate the evil that lurked there once and for all. After months of tireless effort, just as the siege was nearing success, Lorabella received an order from the Prime Sorcerers to desist. Disappointed, she heeded her orders returned with the same thirst for revenge polluting her mind. Lorabella knew that she’d get another chance one day, and established the Dragon’s Nest where she began to train soldiers. Nowadays, she spends her days in the Dragon’s Nest planning and evaluating, waiting for an opportunity to cleanse Tolia of its monsters. Lorabella’s Goals Lorabella wants to eradicate the city of Kanrath, especially its vampire rulers. She believes all evil is rooted there. Her life in both the wilderness and the Cyherested has taught her one thing for certain; as long as there is one sole predator left, everything else is prey, and so she has no choice but to become the sole predator. Roleplaying Lorabella Lorabella is usually aggressive in her demeanor. Since she works with soldiers, she is used to giving orders. She can’t always adjust her behavior in social situations, and sometimes talks to people as if they were inferior officers. She swears quite a lot, and usually talks in the imperative. She tries to be serious at all times, though she can sometimes slip. Lorabella in Combat Lorabella mostly has 4 Bloodwork Automatons (soldier) with her for protection. She only initiates combat if the fight is worth it. However, if the enemy is a vampire, she never hesitates or holds back.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

