# Lord Soth

**description**: Lord Soth is the most powerful death knight on Krynn. Once a Solamnic Knight of the Order of the Rose, Soth was a paragon of virtue and justice who allowed his pride to lead him down an evil path. Soth perished during Krynn’s Cataclysm, then rose from the ashes as a death knight. Soth lives in his cursed castle, Dargaard Keep. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Soth fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Soth has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Marshal Undead. Unless Soth has the incapacitated condition, he and Undead creatures of his choice within 60 feet of him are immune to features that turn Undead. Actions Multiattack. Soth makes three Forsaken Brand attacks. Forsaken Brand. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage plus 18 (4d8) necrotic damage, and if the target is a creature, it can’t regain hit points until the start of Soth’s next turn. Cataclysmic Fire (1/Day). Soth hurls a magical ball of fire that explodes at a point he can see within 120 feet of himself. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 35 (10d6) fire damage and 35 (10d6) necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Additionally, any Medium or smaller Humanoid killed by this damage, as well as every corpse of such a creature within the sphere, becomes a skeleton under Soth’s control. The skeleton acts on Soth’s initiative but immediately after his turn. Absent any other command, the skeleton tries to kill any non-Undead creature it encounters. Spellcasting. Soth casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: Command (cast at 3rd level) 2/day each: Dispel Magic, Hold Person (cast at 3rd level) 1/day: Banishment (cast at 6th level) Word of Death (1/Day). Soth points at a creature he can see within 60 feet of himself and magically commands it to die. The target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 100 necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target dies. Legendary Actions Soth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Soth regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Implacable Maneuver. Soth moves up to his speed or commands a mount he is riding to move up to its speed. The movement from this action doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. If he or his mount moves within 5 feet of a creature during this movement, he can force the creature to make a DC 20 Strength saving throw. The creature has the prone condition unless it succeeds on the saving throw. Strike (Costs 2 Actions). Soth makes one Forsaken Brand attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). Soth uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead (Paladin)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 30583
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Vecna - Eve of Ruin

