# Lord Iychthus

**description**: Adorned in fancy crimson clothes, the sickly gray-green flesh of this humanoid glistens with moisture. A wide-brimmed hat conceals his bald head, but his piercing red eyes penetrate the gloaming shadows nevertheless. Blood-red gill slits on each side of his neck betray an aquatic origin, as he cracks a confident smile. Lord Iychthus, Brine Vampire Lord Iychthus is an intelligent foe, and uses his Shapechanger and Regeneration traits to continue his confrontation against the characters. Give the characters several opportunities to reduce him to 0 hit points, but eventually, these hit-and-run tactics can get frustrating for the characters. If the GM desires, at some point Iychthus simply flees the ship, content to return to his masters. He makes the perfect recurring villain, eventually returning with reinforcements to recover the Eye , and exact revenge on the characters. The undead Mathias can remain with the characters to provide an interesting NPC, but only if the characters' priority remains the defeat of the brine vampire Lord Iychthus's Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Lord Iychthus can harness the power of his lair (the Black Orchid) to cause one of the following effects: A part of the ship (the rigging, an oar, or a door) animates to attack a nearby creature. Treat this as a melee weapon attack with a +8 to hit. If the attack hits, it causes 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. A nearby sail, net, or rope attempts to entangle up to two targets no more than 10 feet apart. Each target must succeed a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or become restrained (escape DC 17). A part of the ship (the railing or a deck board) uses a special melee attack to shove or trip a target. The target must make a contested Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check against the ship's equivalent Strength check (+10). Failure indicates the target takes 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage and is either knocked prone, or if within 5 feet of the ship's railing, is shoveled over the side of the ship and into the water. In this case, allow the shoved target a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, with success indicating the target grabbed the railing and now dangles over the side of the ship. TRAITS Special Equipment: Lord Iychthus wears a fancy red cloak, a matching wide-brimmed hat, and black boots of the zephyr (see appendix A ). He carries a skeleton key but no weapons. Shapechanger: If Lord Iychthus isn't in direct sunlight or standing on solid ground, he can use his action to polymorph into a Tiny carrion gull or a Medium cloud of mist, or back into his true form. While in carrion gull form, Lord Iychthus can't speak, his walking speed is 5 feet, and he has a flying speed of 30 feet. His statistics, other than size and speed, are unchanged. Anything he is wearing transforms with him, but nothing he is carrying does. He reverts to his true form if he dies. While in mist form, Lord Iychthus can't take any actions, speak, or manipulate objects. He is weightless, has a flying speed of 20 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature's space and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through a space, the mist can do so without squeezing, although it can't pass through water. Lord Iychthus has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws, and is immune to all nonmagical damage except the damage he takes from sunlight. Legendary Resistance (3/Day): If Lord Iychthus fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Misty Escape: When Lord Iychthus drops to 0 hit points outside of his resting place, he transforms into a cloud of mist (as in the Shapechanger trait) instead of falling unconscious, provided he isn't sunlight or standing on solid ground. If he can't transform, he is destroyed. While he has 0 hit points in mist form, he can't revert to his vampire form, and must reach his resting place within 2 hours or be destroyed. Once in his resting place, he reverts to his vampire form. He is then paralyzed until he regains at least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in his resting place with 0 hit points, he regains 1 hit point. Regeneration: Lord Iychthus regains 20 hit points at the start of his turn if he has at least 1 hit point and isn't in sunlight or standing on solid ground. If he takes radiant damage, or damage from holy water or consecrated soil, this trait does not function at the start of his next turn. Spider Climb: Lord Iychthus can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Vampire Weaknesses: Lord Iychthus has the following flaws: Forbiddance. Lord Iychthus can't enter a residence without an invitation from one of its occupants. Harmed by Standing on Earth. Lord Iychthus has disadvantage on all attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks while standing on earth. Stake to the Heart. If a piercing weapon made of wood is driven into Lord Iychthus's heart while he is incapacitated in his resting place, he is paralyzed until the weapon is removed. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. Lord Iychthus takes 20 radiant damage when he starts his turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, he has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. ACTIONS Multiattack (Vampire Form Only): Lord Iychthus makes two attacks, only one of which can be a bite attack. Unarmed Strike (Vampire Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Instead of dealing damage, Lord Iychthus can grapple the target (escape DC 18). Bite (Squid or Vampire Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one willing creature, or a creature that is grappled by Lord Iychthus, incapacitated, or restrained. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and Lord Iychthus regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target completes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and then placed in water rises the next night as a brine vampire spawn under Lord Iychthus's control. Charm: Lord Iychthus targets one humanoid he can see within 30 feet of him. If the target sees Lord Iychthus, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be charmed. The charmed target regards Lord Iychthus as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although the target isn't under Lord Iychthus's control, it takes his requests or actions in the most favorable way it can, and is a willing target for Lord Iychthus's bite attack. Each time Lord Iychthus does anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or until Lord Iychthus is destroyed, is on a different plane, or takes a bonus action to end the effect. Children of the Dark Sea (2/Day): Lord Iychthus magically calls 2d4 swarms of carrion gulls or bilge rats, provided the sun is not up. While outdoors, Lord Iychthus can call 3d6 vampire squid instead. The called creatures arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting as allies and obeying spoken commands. The beasts remain for 1 hour, until Lord Iychthus dies, or until he dismisses them as a bonus action. LEGENDARY ACTIONS Lord Iychthus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Legendary actions are regained at the start of Lord Iychthus's turn. Move: Lord Iychthus moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Unarmed Strike: Lord Iychthus makes one unarmed strike. Bite (Costs 2 Actions): Lord Iychthus makes one bite attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead (shapechanger)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 25195
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Goodman Games

**book**: Eye of the Leviathan (FEF 8)

