# Lord Syuul

**description**: Traits Draw In. If Lord Syuul fails a saving throw while grappling at least one enemy, he can choose to release all grappled creatures and succeed on the saving throw instead. Actions Multiattack. Lord Syuul makes two Tentacle or two Psionic Repeater attacks then manifests a power or uses Memory Transfer. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d10 + 6) psychic damage, and if the target is Large or smaller, they are grappled (escape DC 19). Psionic Repeater. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (3d10 + 6) force damage. Brain Overload ( 1 /Day; 6 th-Order Power). Lord Syuul creates a sudden surge of energy in the mind of a creature he can see within 120 feet of him. The target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 77 (14d10) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the target has a brain and is reduced to 0 hit points, their brain explodes, and if they can’t survive without their brain, they die. Flay ( 6 th-Order Power). Lord Syuul shoots a 15-foot cone of psionic energy from his eyes. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Intelligence saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Memory Transfer. Lord Syuul psionically plunders the mind of each creature he is grappling. Each target must succeed on a DC 19 Intelligence saving throw or take 44 (8d10) psychic damage. If a target fails their saving throw and doesn’t escape the grapple by the end of their next turn, they must choose one of these effects: The target’s proficiency bonus drops to 0, they can’t form new thoughts or speak, and they have disadvantage on all ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws. Only the cure ailment power, a lesser restoration spell, or a similar supernatural effect can end this effect. Additionally, until Lord Syuul finishes a long rest, he gains a cumulative +5 bonus to damage rolls. The target is charmed by Lord Syuul for 1 hour. While the target is charmed, Lord Syuul can issue the target telepathic commands (no action required), which the target does their best to obey. Each time the target takes damage, they can make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, ending the effect on a success. Guise ( 3 rd-Order Power). Lord Syuul projects a psionic image over his body, transforming his appearance for 1 hour into that of a Medium creature he has seen. When he manifests this power, he can also change the appearance of any equipment he carries. The changes wrought by this power fail to hold up to physical inspection. A creature can use an action to inspect Lord Syuul’s appearance and make a DC 19 Intelligence (Investigation) check, noticing the image is a projection on a success. Bonus Actions Grappling Jaunt. Lord Syuul and each creature grappled by him teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Reactions Brain Drain. When a creature grappled by Lord Syuul makes a saving throw against Memory Transfer, Lord Syuul momentarily weakens the creature and the creature has disadvantage on the saving throw. Villain Actions Lord Syuul has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Mindblind. Each enemy Lord Syuul can see within 60 feet of him must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature can’t see creatures other than Lord Syuul for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Action 2 : Was I Ever Here? Lord Syuul becomes invisible, teleports 60 feet to an unoccupied space he can see, and can take the Hide action. At the same time, an illusory psionic image of Lord Syuul appears in the space he left, gesturing, speaking, and behaving as he chooses (no action required). A creature who touches the image for the first time on a turn or makes a melee attack against it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (6d6) psychic damage. Lord Syuul’s invisibility ends and his image disappears at the end of his next turn. Action 3 : Mindshatter. Each enemy Lord Syuul can see within 60 feet of him must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 55 (10d10) psychic damage and is dazed for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn’t dazed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

