# Lord of Dread

**description**: The Shadowlands are filled with horrific creatures, from screaming specters to mortals warped beyond recognition to the twisted beings known as oni. Many of these horrors are unique beings, spawned of the bitter rage of Fu Leng and the bile of the deepest hells of the afterlife. Others are former servants of the Fortune of Death who have turned their terrifying powers to this wretched cause. When pitting a Shadowlands horror against the PCs, consider the fact that the unknown is far more terrifying than the known. Rather than throwing wave after wave of identical creatures at them, make each encounter uniquely challenging and horrific by selecting traits from the Shadowlands Powers, below. Lords of Dread. The mightiest of oni can be represented with this profile, including those oni who have gained power from a name stolen from or granted by a past summoner. Such a fiend can be a serious threat even to a large group of experienced samurai, and is likely to massacre those who approach it without proper caution. Table A-12: Shadowlands Horror Motivations D6 Roll Shadowlands Horror Motivation 1 Enjoys scheming for its own sake, and enacts plans far more convoluted than necessary. 2 Seeks to deceive and humiliate mortals before killing them. 3 Desires to have mortals turn to its cause willingly, and tempts them with offers of power. 4 Has nothing but disdain for mortals, and seeks to slaughter them without pretense or schemes. 5 Enjoys the thrill of the hunt, and sets “challenges” for mortals by which it abides. 6 Seeks to lord over mortals and other Shadowlands horrors, dominating them through fear. Shadowlands Powers The otherworldly powers of the oni are strange and varied, as their demonic proclivities take many different forms. Listed on the following pages are example powers, featuring some of the more common tricks and talents oni tend to wield, as well as some that are designed to provide interesting and unique antagonists for players. Each Shadowlands Power has a listed CR increase that should be applied when it is added to a creature. Table A-11: Shadowlands Powers D12 Roll Power 1 Scent of Weakness (+0 CR). The secret desires of the heart are playthings to this horror, for it can smell the wants and needs mortals struggle to keep hidden as clearly as wafting perfume. As a bonus action on its turn, this horror can choose one creature it can perceive and learn one of that creature’s motivations. 2 Bony Carapace (+1 CR). The horror is covered in thick hide, bony plates, entirely skeletal, or has some other form of natural armor beyond even the substantial protection typical of its kind. It gains resistance to piercing and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks, or gains resistance to all piercing and slashing damage if it already had that resistance. 3 Captivating Voice (+1 CR). Some horrors speak with honeyed voices at odds with their hideous appearance, giving them the ability to cajole and coerce even stalwart heroes with their words. When making a Charisma-based check against another creature, this horror has advantage if it knows one or more of that creature’s motivations. Additionally, its spellcasting ability is Charisma, and it can cast the following spells: 1/day each: charm person , h old person 4 Dark Puppet (+1 CR). By some vile art, the horror can manipulate its shadow, its reflection, or a representational form of some kind to torment its foes. As a bonus action on its turn, it can either move its proxy form to a surface that it can inhabit within 60 feet (such as a reflective surface for a reflection, any illuminated surface for a shadow, or any painted surface for a diabolical portrait or similar). On its turn, the creature can spend its action to have its proxy perform an action. If it has legendary actions, at the end of another creature’s turns, it can spend 1 of its legendary actions to have its proxy use one of its actions. 5 Dread Feeder (+1 CR). This horror can feed upon the very fear of its prey. When this creature causes another creature to fail a Wisdom or Charisma saving throw, it regains 1d12 hit points. 6 Obsidian Jaws (+1 CR). The hideous visages of some horrors are further marred by massive jaws filled with teeth of obsidian shards, or other equally vicious fangs. Its bite attack inflicts an additional 1d12 necrotic damage, and inflicts a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. 7 Shadowlands Venom (+1 CR). The horror’s weapons or attacks carry the threat of deadly venom, smeared on a weapon or injected by its claws or bite. When this creature inflicts a critical hit on another creature, its target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On failure, it suffers 3d6 poison damage and the poisoned condition. 8 Winged (+2 CR). The horror has dreadful wings, or hangs aloft in defiance of gravity. It gains a fly (hover) speed of 90 ft. 9 Foul Separation (+2 CR). This horror exhibits the disturbing power to tear out their own organs or limbs to serve as puppets for its will, allowing it to see, act, or speak at a distance through a scuttling claw, floating eye, or other horrific disembodied appendage. On its turn as an action, it can spend its action and 4d6 hit points to create 2 lesser horrors. These lesser horrors have all of its Shadowlands powers except for this one, and take their turns immediately after the main body’s turn. If the horror’s main body is killed, the fragment becomes the center of its consciousness. On its turn as an action, the main horror can devour one or more of these lesser horrors within 5 feet to regain 2d6 hit points per lesser horror devoured. 10 Illusion Master (+2 CR). The treachery of this horror knows no bounds, and it has learned vile magics that can deceive the senses and mind into perceiving that which is not there. By means of this sorcery, such a horror can call up phantasms of lost family to torment its victims, cloak its movements in impenetrable shadow, or pursue its prey into the Realm of Dreams. The Rakshasa of the Ghostlands that plague the Ivory Kingdoms are especially adroit at crafting these delusions. The horror’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16 for lesser horror, 12 for horrific brute, 20 for lord of dread). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: disguise self , invisibility , mino r illusion 1/day each: blur , dream , fear , hypnot ic pattern 11 Necromantic Secrets (+2 CR). Some of the most fearsome horrors wield powerful necromancy learned from Bloodspeaker cultists whose hubris let them think they could tame such creatures. The horror’s spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16 for lesser horror, 12 for horrific brute, 20 for lord of dread). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: bestow curse , mark of desecration (see page 403), speak with dead 1/day each: contagion , inflict wounds , vamp iric touch 12 Vile Depredation (+2 CR). This horror’s flesh gruesomely knits back together after it is injured, and feasting upon the viscera of its foes hastens this process. The horror regains 1d12 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. When it inflicts a critical hit on another creature, it immediately regains 3d10 hit points. Traits Vile Mutation. At the start of its turn, if a lord of dread’s current hit points are lower than or equal to half of its maximum hit points (128), it gains 2 additional Shadowlands Powers. Roll twice on Table A–11: Shadowlands Powers or choose 2 powers. It loses those powers at the end of the encounter. It cannot use this ability again until it completes a long rest. Actions Multiattack. The lord of dread makes two claw attacks and one bite attack, or three claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10+7) piercing damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d6+7) slashing damage. Acid Spit. Breath Weapon (Recharge 4–6): The lord of dread spews acid in an 80-foot cone in front of it. Each creature in that area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On failure, a creature suffers 50 (10d10) acid damage. Legendary Actions A lord of dread can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The lord of dread regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Dread Cry (Costs 2 Actions). The lord of dread howls, chilling the souls of all around. Each creature in a 30-foot sphere must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the lord of dread unless it chooses to suffer 3d6 psychic damage. A creature that fails can repeat this save at the start of each of its turns to remove the condition. Furious Swipe. The lord of dread makes a multitarget attack roll against each creature in a 15-foot sweep around it. On a hit, a creature suffers 18 (3d6+7) slashing damage and the bleeding condition (1d4 piercing damage at the start of each of its turns, removed after it regains HP) for one minute. Scorn of Eternity. The hostile creature with the highest hit points within 90 feet must make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw. On failure, that creature suffers 12 (2d12) psychic damage and is marked for death (the next successful melee attack the lord of dread makes against it deals an additional 1d8 force damage) for one minute or until the lord of dread deals damage to it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: lost fiend
- Alignment: any evil
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

