# Lorendi Aetherwalker

**description**: Lorendi A millennium has passed since the planet Eldor was consumed by the energies of an activating Crucible, decimating the ecosystem and transforming the Nesieve people. Flush with metaphysical powers they did not yet understand, the discord that followed would forever divide the nesieve. Kindred clashed as those who wanted to rebuild their home fought against those with much darker, tyrannical ambitions. Intoxicated with newfound power, a small faction of the military rallied in an attempted coup against the ruling class. The incursion was short-lived, as a vast majority of the people sided with their sovereign, determined to remain a peaceful society. After their defeat, the remaining nesieve dissenters were banished from Eldor. After months of scavenging in the outer zones, they found solace in the guidance of their new leader, Loren Kaysa. Driven by a vision of eminence, Kaysa led his people through the great expanse until they discovered another active Crucible in a sparsely inhabited system. Using the Crucible's power, the banished nesieve mastered their newfound abilities and established a seat of power on the system's second planet. The system's primary star was named Loren Jah, in honor of their new god-emperor. In the years that followed, Loren Kaysa and his Lorendi Imperium set out to wreak havoc upon Eldor and the rest of galactic society in a war that came to be known as the Nesieve Conflict. Lorendi have slightly scaled skin with color ranging between different shades of red. Their hair is thick and most often a deep gray, black, or a combination of the two. It can also take on a bluish hue when viewed in natural light. Destined to Rule. While most of the nesieve, now known as the eldori, focused on rebuilding and protecting their home, Loren Kaysa viewed the Crucible's transformation of the nesieve as a sign from a higher power. He established a belief among his people that they were gifted these supernatural abilities, intended to help them lead the people of the galaxy into a glorious new age. This was not only their mission; it was also their right granted by the higher powers that chose them. Peace Through Strength. The lorendi claim divine providence over all life in the galaxy. As such, any action taken by the lorendi, regardless of its cruel nature, is an effort to establish a peaceful, prosperous galactic order. Those that challenge this claim are branded as insurgents or anarchists. The Sorium Accord is an example of such agitators, often spoken of as a deceitful band of conspirators against the Imperium. Lorendi-Controlled Systems. The Lorendi Imperium comprises hundreds of star systems surrounding the Imperium's primary system, Loren Jah. The people of the Imperium live and operate under a charter of laws created and enforced by the lorendi. A number of these systems bear grand cities or sprawling space stations used as an operational hub for lorendi commanders and nobles. These high-tech metropoles are fitted with fortified barriers or energy shields through which only lorendi may pass.Outside of these places, travel and commerce function normally between all species, as long as they don't violate the laws of the Imperium. Will of the Emperor. The first and great Emperor Loren Kaysa is both admired and feared. The reverence bestowed upon him by the lorendi is equivalent to that of a grand deity. His word is sacrosanct; to question it is nothing short of treasonous. Kaysa remains as young and vibrant as when he founded Loren Jah, a feat which adds to his legendary status. His redemption of the nesieve is a tale taught to all who live in the Imperium as a testament to their right to rule over the galaxy. Inherited Talents. Esper powers and their use are an everyday part of lorendi society. All lorendi are inherently attuned to the Crucibles' energies, possessing innate talents they master at a young age. Those that have pursued the acquisition of more powers have become some of the most dangerous espers in the galaxy. The Circle of Power. Similar to their eldori cousins, the lorendi have their own view of the Great Wheel. Their natural attunement to the Crucibles enables them to increase their prowess by drawing power from the cycle of metaphysical energy that maintains balance in the universe. Militant Structure. Social status within lorendi society is earned through military achievements and accolades. The most prominent nobles among the lorendi are also high-ranking commanders, captains, generals, and admirals. Though most soldiers hold their honor and loyalty to the Imperium above all else, internal politics and rivalries are also common between military factions, with many seeking to increase their station at the expense of the honor or reputation of their superiors. Lorendi Aetherwalker High-ranking lorendi that master the path of esper channelers carry the esteemed title of aetherwalker. They often serve as advisors to generals or as a patron elder to other lorendi seeking to master the art of esper channeling. Lorendi Harbinger Harbingers hold rank only second to the grand marshals and Emperor Kaysa himself. Both great warriors and tacticians, they oversee many important military operations. They lead the charge themselves without hesitation should the objective be one of great significance to the Imperium. Lorendi Machinist Machinists are experts in sorium crafting and forging. The greatest among them design and build mighty lorendi fortresses, starships, and weapons. Machinists can be found in any lorendi contingent but also regularly accompany more prominent figures, such as the harbingers.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (lorendi)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

