# Lost

**description**: The Lost appear in Midnight - Legacy of Darkness Undead The SRD presents undead creatures as separate entities with no defined relationship. In the world of Midnight , the more common undead creatures are each actually part of a continuum of decay and corruption, both physical and spiritual. While undead once existed in Midnight thanks to the normal means of restless spirits and foul necromancy, the Sundering has caused them to be far more common thanks to a corruption of the natural cycle. Whereas once all souls ascended to some higher place or joined the spirits of their ancestors as part of the Eternal, now they are trapped, either in body or in spirit, to the world that birthed them, unable to pass the veil brought down by the Sundering. Undead of Eredane With nowhere to go, the spirits of the dead far too often remain tethered to their bodies or emerge as the Lost, dangerous incorporeal undead with an unpredictable but often dangerous attitude toward the living. Whenever an intelligent creature with a soul dies, if it has enough strength of will, the soul of the deceased departs their body and vanishes into the maelstrom of trapped but harmless spirits that wreath the world of Aryth like an incorporeal halo. However, if their strength fails, the deceased is doomed to rise as a Fell within one or more days unless it is beheaded, or its body is destroyed by fire. In addition, there is always a chance, no matter how strong the soul’s willpower, that it becomes trapped and doomed to rise as a tormented shade, one of the Lost, within one year of the person’s death. The Horror of Undeath Undead are an important, tone-setting part of Midnight . The desperate and vile nature of their existence lends the world a bleak aspect that few other creatures can provide. It is therefore important that GMs use them effectively, giving undead the power and emphasis they need to truly frighten and threaten the player characters. The most important thing is to make them realistically frightening. These are horrible creatures that are not only physically revolting but are driven to literally eat the player characters’ flesh! GMs should avoid falling into the trap of simply calling such creatures “zombies” or “ghouls.” They should describe them as they appear and let the players decide what their characters are encountering. Describing an undead as a “shambling figure of sinew-covered bones, hung with tatters of dried flesh, red eyes glinting in a broken skull” is much more evocative than simply calling it “a skeleton.” GMs should also play up the threat level of these creatures. Remember, they want to eat the flesh of the living and can be cunning night stalkers or savage, animalistic pack hunters. Some undead have dangerous magical powers and are less vulnerable to certain kinds of damage. They can carry disease and can be psychologically traumatic to encounter. Remember that these creatures can be, at least in the earlier stages of decay, intelligent and therefore they should be able to stalk their prey and fight with more cunning than they are typically given. Well fed and relatively fresh ungral might even be able to pass cursorily in civilized places as they cleverly attempt to find prey. Keep in mind, too, that the Fell can speak. For a uniquely disturbing scene, a GM should set up an encounter with undead that doesn’t necessarily lead immediately to combat. Setting things up so that the characters have to parley with the undead makes for a horrifyingly strange, tension-filled, and memorable encounter. Other Undead Izrador’s high priest, Sunulael, is himself an undead creature, but not a randomly risen Fell. He is the product of Izrador’s corrupting will, an eternal creature of jealousy and ambition. All the other undead of the world have their origins in Izrador, and most came seeking him in order to extend their lives and grow their power. There are rituals known only to Izrador and his high legates that can bestow undeath on a creature, willing or not. Different rituals produce different undead—vampires, liches, and even ghosts—all of whom reach the other side with new powers, new perceptions, and a complete and utter devotion to Izrador’s cause. For the most part, Izrador leaves these new servants to their own devices, secure in the knowledge that even as they fulfill the desires that led them to this choice, they will also be furthering his goals. Sunulael often demands a period of service from those he transforms, and it is hoped that the commanders among his undead army at Cambrial may, if the offensive is stalled long enough, eventually desert his service. If such desertion can be timed just right, it could turn the tide of the war in Erethor toward the forces of good. Traits Incorporeal Movement. The lost can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Invisible. The lost is invisible. If it makes an attack, it becomes visible for one minute. Haunting Visage. When the lost becomes visible, each creature within 60 feet of the lost that can see it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of it for one minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success. If the target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the lost’s Haunting Visage for the next 24 hours. Actions Withering Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8+2) necrotic damage. Life Drain (recharge 6). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d8+2) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

