# Lunar Revenant

**description**: The inexplicable feeling of fear that grips the heart and wrenches the gut is not a rare occurrence in Luyarnha. Most citizens blame that fear on the horrors that lurk in the streets at night, but some of the town's most deranged denizens accuse an unseen force: skeletal behemoths that lie in wait atop the spires of the city, and alongside its walls. Silent Watchers Lunar revenants move unseen, their form only revealed by the light of the moon, dwelling in locales where the stench of death permeates the very air they breathe. Hence, it comes as no surprise that so many are drawn to Luyarnha and its murderous madness. These eerie creatures do not make a sound, even upon death, they simply vanish, leaving behind naught but a thin trail of ash, the sole memento of their existence. Peaceful Brutality Although they never initiate a battle, once provoked, Lunar revenants become brutal engines of death, relentlessly attacking until their opponents lie shattered, before returning to their idle occupations, as if the fight was but a mere bad dream. Few hunters can testify to their ruthlessness, as few ever made it out alive. The first attack against a lunar revenant was ordered by the Radiant Church, in a misguided attempt to quell the tale of their existence. That night, dozens of hunters perished to bring down a single revenant, a sacrifice none were ready to pay. Thereafter, it was decided that these beings were best left well alone; after all, it is much easier to silence those who would spread rumors. We don't know where they came from, nor what they desire, but we have learned through bloodshed that they are best left well alone. Traits Fear Aura. Any creature that starts its turn within 120 feet of the revenant must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the revenant's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. If a creature cannot see the revenant, it automatically fails the saving throw. Lunar Invisibility. While not in moonlight, the revenant is invisible and incapacitated. Magic Resistance. The revenant has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The revenant's attacks are magical. Spider Climb. The revenant can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Actions Multiattack. The revenant makes three attacks: two slams and one with its greatsword. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (6d6 + 6) slashing damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Teleport. The revenant magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is illuminated by moonlight. Maddening Screech (Recharge 5-6). The revenant howls an inaudible sound that shatters the mind. Each creature within 60 feet of the revenant must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) psychic damage and gaining one short-term madness on a failure.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

