# Lunar Dragon Wyrmling

**description**: Lunar dragons (also known as moon dragons or phase dragons) are capricious, xenophobic creatures that make their lairs inside desolate moons by burrowing through the rock. Before laying eggs, a female lunar dragon stocks her lair with food; she won’t leave the lair again until the eggs hatch and the offspring are old enough to fend for themselves. Lunar dragon eggs have stony shells that are pale white to light gray in color. Lunar dragons are alabaster white when they hatch and gradually turn darker as they age. Ancient moon dragons are the color of slate. Lunar dragons enjoy depriving other creatures of treasure more than acquiring the treasure themselves. Often found among the treasures in a lunar dragon’s hoard are one or more spelljamming helms (see the Astral Adventurer’s Guide ) taken from vessels that dared to invade the dragon’s territory. A lunar dragon can become incorporeal, but not to the extent that it can pass through other creatures or solid objects. In this semi-incorporeal state, roughly half of the dragon’s body has a dark, indistinctly spectral form. A Lunar Dragon’s Lair The cave complex where a lunar dragon makes its lair contains ample space for food, as well as one or more hidden chambers where the dragon keeps its treasure. Depending on the composition and features of the moon, the lair might contain natural springs and heat vents, wild gardens, crystal formations, magical phenomena, or an ecosystem of lesser life forms that have adapted to living with the dragon. Regional Effects The region containing an ancient or adult lunar dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which produces one or more of the following effects: Black Frost. A thin layer of black frost covers the ground, which kills all ordinary plants growing within 6 miles of the lair if the dragon is ancient, or within 3 miles if the dragon is an adult. Haunting Moan . A haunting sound gets louder or fainter (dragon’s choice) the closer one gets to the lair. The moan is audible 6 miles from the lair if the dragon is ancient, or 3 miles if the dragon is an adult. Moon Devils. Swirling funnels of dust and frost known as moon devils crisscross the area within 1 mile of the lair, intercepting other creatures they encounter. A moon devil is a free-willed air elemental that deals cold damage instead of bludgeoning damage. If the dragon dies, the moaning stops, the moon devils dissipate, and the black frost disappears over the course of 1d10 days, allowing plant life in the area to recover. Traits Tunneler. The dragon can burrow through solid rock at half its burrowing speed and leaves a 5-foot-diameter tunnel in its wake. Unusual Nature. The dragon doesn’t require air. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) cold damage. Cold Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon exhales a blast of frost in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in the cone must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 13 (3d8) cold damage, and its speed is halved until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage, and its speed isn’t reduced. Bonus Actions Phase (2/Day). The dragon becomes partially incorporeal for as long as it maintains concentration on the effect (as if concentrating on a spell). While partially incorporeal, the dragon has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: typically neutral evil
- Expansion: 16643
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Spelljammer - Adventures in Space

