# Lupinal

**description**: The lupinal can be mistaken for a werewolf from a distance, though it is far less bestial and possesses a face that exudes empathy, intelligence, and nobility. A lupinal has a slim, athletic body and is about 5 to 6 feet tall, covered with short, silver-gray hair, and often wield a weapon in each hand. Cunning Opportunists. In combat, lupinals are cunning and versatile warriors. They always use their ethereal jaunt ability and utilize hit and run tactics. They take advantage of the vulnerability of foes already engaged with an ally, striking at them with high accuracy. When outnumbered, lupinals will cast spells and unleash a howl that can unnerve and terrify their foes. Guardinals The noble guardinals are celestials that resemble animal-humanoid hybrids. Despite their bestial appearance, guardinals are the most honorable and pure-hearted beings one will ever encounter. Native to Elysium and the House of Nature, the guardinals embody virtue and good-naturedness without being constrained by law nor distracted by the chaos of freedom. They are welcoming, mirthful, and witty. Though they always seek to resolve conflict through peaceful means, guardinals are ready to fight if needed. Due to their nature, guardinals often clash with fiends, tyrants, and evil undead. Noble Heroes. While guardinals have no strict hierarchy as do the celestial archons, they recognize the authority and follow the guardinal paragons known as Talisid and the Five Companions. From time to time, guardinals may be called upon by deities of Elysium and the House of Nature to perform noble quests, at times aiding heroes from the Material Plane. Squads of guardinals also mount lightning raids and rescue missions in the Lower Planes. Traits Keen Smell. The lupinal has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Magic Resistance. The lupinal has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Pack Tactics. The lupinal has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the lupinal's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Speak with Beasts. The lupinal can communicate with beasts as if they shared a language. Actions Multiattack. The lupinal makes two melee attacks. Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The lupinal casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: alter self, blur, cure wounds (as a 2nd-level spell), darkness 2/day each: blink, cone of cold, fly Howl (1/Day). The lupinal emits a magical howl. Each enemy creature within 300 feet of the lupinal and able to hear the howl must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bonus Actions Ethereal Jaunt. The lupinal magically shifts from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane, or vice versa. Two-Weapon Fighting. When the lupinal takes the Attack action or uses Multiattack, it makes one melee weapon attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Neutral Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

