# Luposphinx

**description**: The rapacious luposphinx bears the head of a giant wolf on its leonine body. It is a shrewd creature that constantly seeks to expand its territory. It does this by forming packs of subservient beasts and humanoids, establishing itself as their alpha. Woodland Predator. The luposphinx lives in temperate swamps, coastal prairies, and woodland areas. It makes its lair in the ruins of temples and keeps or large caves. The luposphinx will eat any type of meat, even carrion, but it has developed a taste for elven and halfling flesh and goes out of its way to hunt for them. Pack Tactics. In combat, the luposphinx usually lets its allies attack first. It then picks the most vulnerable target, maneuvering into a position where it can flank it and possibly attack by surprise. If faced with large numbers of enemies, the luposphinx can let loose a terrifying howl that can cause creatures to turn and flee. Monstrous Allies. Luposphinxes tend to associate with and dominate bugbears, goblins, xvarts, wolves, dire wolves, and winter wolves. They have also been known to work with werewolves and with cultists of Malar the Beast Lord. Sphinxes Not all sphinxes are divine guardians tasked to guard gods' treasures. Some sphinxes, like the canisphinx, crocosphinx, dracosphinx, luposphinx, taurusphinx, and the threskisphinx, are free to do as they please. They sometimes work as mercenaries, offering their services to powerful entities. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The sphinx has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Magic Weapons. The sphinx's weapon attacks are magical. Pack Tactics. The sphinx has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sphinx's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The sphinx makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage. Howl (2/Day). The sphinx emits a magical howl. Each enemy creature within 100 feet of the sphinx and able to hear the howl must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from the sphinx as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of it. The frightened creature also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The sphinx can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The sphinx regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw Attack. The sphinx makes one Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The sphinx magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Raking Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The sphinx moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and makes two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

