# Lutheria

**description**: Lutheria was once a goddess of many things. She created all the fey races, including satyrs, nymphs, and dryads. As the sister-wife of Sydon, she suffered the same losses as the Lord of Storms when humanity came to Thylea. Her children were slaughtered, and many of her powers were stolen by the Five Gods. In the years that followed, a vengeful madness grew in her mind. Now, Lutheria schemes to capture the souls of the sinful, to fuel her dream of transforming humanity into brutish beasts, remaking their world into an endless nightmare. Lutheria takes the form of a beautiful, black-eyed woman who sleepwalks through the underworld, greeting the spirits of the dead. She has a third eye upon her forehead that usually remains closed, but when opened allows her to see through the eyes of the dead in the underworld. When she does this, her third eye moves independently of her other eyes in a disconcerting manner. She carries a crystal scythe, which she uses to harvest the souls of those who displeased her during their lives. Lutheria expects her followers to live without remorse or thought of the consequences: to drink, dance, and feast to your heart’s desire, because any day could be your last. Lutheria views the mortal races as playthings, and she takes great pleasure in reducing them to the status of beasts. She created the maenads and goatlings in mockery of the human settlers, and she delights in the destruction they cause to outlying villages. She sincerely believes that she will one day be worshipped by every living creature in Thylea, and she hopes that this is best accomplished by deadening minds and appealing to baser instincts. For those who resist, she conjures nightmares as punishment for their lack of faith. Nevertheless, she is still celebrated in Mytros with annual wine festivals and secret bacchanals. Epithets of Lutheria . The Lady of Dreams. The Queen of Hypnos. The Mistress of Death. Goddess of the Underworld. Queen of the Nether Sea. The Mad Goddess. The Twin Titan. Roleplaying Lutheria Curious . Lutheria is curious about the lands beyond Thylea, especially of distant civilizations, gods, and dragons. She seeks the means to expand her power and influence, and her ambitions extend beyond the reaches of the Forgotten Sea. Apparently Empathetic . Lutheria understands the hopes, dreams, and fears of mortals far better than most gods. She is charming and approachable (with just a tinge of madness in her eyes), and never outwardly judgmental. Thieves, murderers, and other criminals venerate her, taking solace in her apparently forgiving nature. Few discover her secret loathing for mortal weaknesses until it’s much too late to escape her scythe. Manipulative . Lutheria is fond of bargaining with mortals, offering them their dreams and riches, but she will always exact a terrifying price. She is true to her promises, but she always finds a way to bend and twist consequences to her advantage, or for her amusement.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: celestial (empyrean)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 4963
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

