# Luzgrigaul

**description**: Mind Flayer Attendants The colony of Zellix’Phor consists of many mind flayers, but some of the most notable of the community have been promoted to the rank of attendant – illithids whose unique strengths make them most useful to the elder brain, and who act as its council. The attendants are described in detail in chapter one, but their game statistics are listed here. Traits Displacement. Luzgrigaul projects a magical illusion that makes it appear to be standing near its actual location, causing attack rolls against it to have disadvantage. If it is hit by an attack, this trait is disrupted until the end of its next turn. This trait is also disrupted while Luzgrigaul is incapacitated or has a speed of 0. Innate Spellcasting (Psionics). Luzgrigaul is a 10th-level spellcaster. Its innate spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16; +8 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no components: At will: detect thoughts, levitate 1/day each: dominate monster, plane shift (self only) Luzgrigaul has the following spells prepared: At will: blade ward, mage hand, mending, vicious mockery 1st level (4 slots): command, comprehend languages, dissonant whispers, sanctuary 2nd level (3 slots): crown of madness, hold person, see invisibility 3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, fear, major image 4th level (3 slots): confusion, Otiluke’s resilient sphere 5th level (2 slots): modify memory, telekinesis Magic Resistance. Luzgrigaul has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Psionic Augmentations. Luzgrigaul has several augmentations that provide the following benefits: Luzgrigaul can breathe normally in any environment (including a vacuum) and has advantage on saving throws against harmful gases (such as those created by a cloudkill spell, a stinking cloud spell, inhaled poisons, and the breath weapons of some dragons). Luzgrigaul has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Intelligence (Investigation) checks that rely on sight. Luzgrigaul’s speed increases by 20 feet. Special Equipment. Luzgrigaul wears mind carapace armor: breastplate and wields a mind lash . Actions Mind Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage plus 5 (2d4) psychic damage. Any creature that takes psychic damage from the mind lash must also succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) psychic damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 16) and must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until this grapple ends. Extract Brain. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid grappled by Luzgrigaul. Hit: The target takes 55 (10d10) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, Luzgrigaul kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain. Mind Blast (Recharge 5–6). Luzgrigaul magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or take 23 (4d8 + 5) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

