# Lycaon

**description**: Lycaon, the King of Wolves Once upon a time he was known as the King of Arcadia, his bloodline spreads far and wide. Husband to several wives, including nymphs of certain renown, and father to 50 sons which would become founders of many towns and cities in the region of Arcadia. In an effort to test the character of this king and his children Zeus chose to approach the kingdom in disguise. Attempting to pass off as a simple laborer, Zeus was unable to completely hold back his divinity, which started a series of rumors and tales that eventually reached the ears of the king. Lycaon chose to put this mysterious laborer through a test of his own, however. He arranged a grand banquet with the help of his sons, inviting the laborer under the pretense of royal hospitality for a newcomer. A child was killed, butchered and served up as a meal for the king of the gods. Some versions of this tale say that the child was a son or relative or the king, which only highlighted the utterly monstrous act. A furious Zeus exploded into a storm, tearing apart the castle. His thunder and lightning reverberated through the kingdom as he dealt his punishment. The children of Lycaon who participated in the heinous crime were obliterated by the sky god’s bolts, while the fleeing Lycaon was forcefully turned into a wolven monster with an unending hunger, the first werewolf. Hateful Plague. After thousands of years the damned king has spread his curse through terrible violence, expanding his pack. He eternally hunts all living beings, as his animal instincts and the immeasurable loathing for Zeus drive him into madness and rage. It is said that those who hunt down the sovereign wolf will be blessed by the King of Olympus. Lycaon as a Mythic Encounter Lycaon is a haunting foe to face, with eons of experience as a hunter. If you wish to make an encounter with the cursed king truly legendary, Lycaon might use his King's Rancor trait. The very curse placed on the king’s body by Zeus invigorates his soul with malice and desire for violence. When this happens, Lycaon can choose one of his mythic actions when he uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when Lycaon uses his King’s Rancor trait: The King of Wolves lays beaten The former King of Arcadia breathes heavily, blood and drool dripping from his mouth. Slumped on his side, like so many of his victims before him. His lightning scars glow red, his eyes snap open as he reaches into the very depths of his soul. Hatred burning like Zeus’ bolts surges forth and he rises with a howl that shakes the very nature around him. Blood-red eyes fall on his opponents, the ones who hurt him. They would become the next members of his pack. There is no other way. Fighting Lycaon as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 20 creatures in one encounter. Award a party an additional25,000 XP (50,000 XP total) for defeating him after his King’s Rancor trait activates. Monstrosities Monsters have been common amongst the obstacles of heroes since ancient times. These monsters are often born from terrible primordial beings and the damning hubris of the gods. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the lion fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. King's Rancor (Recharges after a short or long Rest). If Lycaon would be reduced to 0 hit points, his current hit point total instead resets to 330 hit points, and he regains any expended uses of Legendary Resistance. Additionally, Lycaon can now use the options in the “Mythic Actions” section for 1 hour. Keen Hearing and Smell. Lycaon has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Magic Weapons. Lycaon's weapon attacks are magical. Pack Tactics. Lycaon has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of his allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. Lycaon uses his Maddening Presence and then makes four attacks: four with his claws or bite (humanoid or wolf form) or one with his bite and three with his claws (hybrid form). Bite (Wolf or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 29 (4d10 + 9) piercing damage. If the target is a humanoid, it must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with werewolf lycanthropy. Claws (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) slashing damage. Maddening Presence. Each creature of Lycaon's choice that is within 120 feet of him and aware of him must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success, and taking 7 (2d6) psychic damage on a failure. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Lycaon's Maddening Presence for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Shapechanger. Lycaon can polymorph into a humanoid of medium size or into a wolf of huge size, or back into his true form, which is a wolf-humanoid hybrid. His statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment he is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. Lycaon reverts to his true form if he dies. Legendary Actions Lycaon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Lycaon regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. Lycaon can move up to his speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. Lycaon can make a claw attack. Detect. Lycaon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Mythic Actions If Lycaon’s King's Rancor trait has activated in the last hour, he can use the options below as legendary actions. Cursed Barrage. Lycaon can make a bite and a claw attack or two claw attacks. Enraged Howl (Costs 2 Actions). Each creature that has been afflicted with lycanthropy over the last hour within 120 feet of Lycaon that can hear his howl must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, if the creature fails the saving throw then they take 38 (7d10) psychic damage. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage. If a creature reaches 0 hit points because of this damage they forcefully become a werewolf under the control of Lycaon, maintaining their ability scores, class features and recovering 40 hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity (shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

