# Lysswin

**description**: Listen, I'm the best there is at this job. Even better than some of the House members that actually have a Mark. It makes them lazy. They think, ‘oh the Mark will find them for me.' Then the fugitive gets away, and I've got to be called in. Growing up in the Shadow Marshes without a Mark doesn't mean much. Everyone is worth the same. I've heard tales and seen it for myself how the markless are treated in other Houses. It's strange how a person's worth isn't determined by their deeds but by something they didn't even earn. Despite the other Houses' strange practices, their money's worth the same as everyone else's. I don't get hung up on the details of why someone needs to be found. I find them and bring them back. I'm paid well not to think about anything else. Traits Dwarven Toughness. Your hit point maximum increases by 1 (included in the stat block), and it increases by 1 every time you gain a level. Ear to the Ground. You are in frequent contact with people in the segment of society that your chosen quarries move through. These people might be associated with the criminal underworld, the rough-and-tumble folk of the streets, or members of high society. This connection comes in the form of a contact in any city you visit, a person who provides information about the people and places of the local area. Earth Walk. You can move across difficult terrain made of earth or stone without expending extra movement. Hunter's Intuition. When you make a Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check, you can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the ability check. Petrification Resistance. You have advantage on saving throws against being petrified. Spellcasting. Your spellcasting ability is Charisma (+6 to hit with spell attacks, spell save DC 14). You know the following bard spells: Cantrips (at will): friends, thunderclap 1st level (2 slots): charm person, disguise self, sleep, unseen servant Actions Attack. You can attack when you take this action, using the following: Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 1d4 + 2 piercing damage. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8 + 2 piercing damage. Bonus Actions Bardic Inspiration (4; Recharges After a Long Rest). Choose one creature other than yourself within 60 feet of you who can hear you. That creature gains one Bardic Inspiration die, a d6. Once within the next 10 minutes, the creature can roll the die and add the number rolled to one ability check, attack roll, or saving throw it makes. The creature can wait until after it rolls the d20 before deciding to use the Bardic Inspiration die, but must decide before the DM says whether the roll succeeds or fails. Once the Bardic Inspiration die is rolled, it is lost. A creature can have only one Bardic Inspiration die at a time.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Dwarf, Genasi)
- Expansion: 24690

**publisher**: Gnome Made Games

**book**: An Elf and an Orc Had A Little Baby

