# Mad Wizard

**description**: The wastelands hold enough forbidden secrets, fell monsters, and corrupted arcana to break the mind of those who simply wish to cross its ruin-strewn environs. The risk is even greater for those who set out to plumb the depths of the wastes’ wonders and horrors. Occasionally, some succumb to the ever-changing torments of chaos and reappear as shattered shells of their former selves. The mad wizard is one such sorrowful figure. This mad wizard was once a powerful archmage, wielding powers and spells few could match. She walked the halls of power, advised kings and emperors, and the fate of the world, or even the planes, hinged on her actions. Not so anymore. Today, she wears torn and tattered magical robes, decorated with odd symbols that make sense only she can decipher. Her belt holds wands and potions alongside random objects that happened to catch her eye. The mad wizard maintains a constant dialogue with herself, posing questions and answering them in the same voice. Though she is unkempt and has the air of unpredictable wildness in her eye, her powerful arcane skills are by no means diminished. It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to fully understand the plans and goals of someone touched by chaos, especially because these goals tend to change frequently. It is important to understand, however, that to the mad wizard, it makes perfect sense. She is often found guarding a particular ruin, dungeon, or well of magical power that acts as the focus of her latest obsession. Occasionally, she will seek out travelers or adventurers if she believes they need certain items or information or out of an unconscious need for “human” interaction. TRAITS Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the mad wizard fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The mad wizard has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Special Equipment. The mad wizard wears a torn robe of the archmagi , which provides only the benefit to Armor Class. Unintended Side-Effects. Whenever the mad wizard casts a spell, a random creature within 120 feet experiences one of the following magical effects until the start of the mad wizard’s next turn: Creature’s skin turns a different color. Strange music plays whenever the creature moves or uses an action. Creature’s race changes to a random race, though its statistics do not change. Bees or other insects love the creature. Illusory animals caper and frolic around the creature. Creature forgets everyone’s names or can speak only in a strange language. Creature gains a new appendage like a tail or arm, but it can’t be used to hold or use items. A random Small object falls into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the creature. The GM creates a similar effect. ACTIONS Multiattack. The mad wizard makes two Arcane Burst attacks. Arcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) force damage. Channel Raw Magic. A creature of the mad wizard’s choice within 60 feet that she can see must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 22 (4d10) psychic damage, and one of the following secondary effects is triggered. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage, and a secondary effect does not occur. Chain. Three additional foes of the mad wizard within 30 feet of the target must make the Charisma saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) lightning damage on a failed save. Blast. All creatures within 30 feet of the target must make the Charisma saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) fire damage on a failed save. Healing. The target instantly regains hit points equal to twice the amount of the psychic damage it took. Teleport. The target is teleported to an unoccupied space within 120 feet. Laugh with Me (Recharge 5–6). The mad wizard sees the humor in existence, and her laughter is infectious. Each creature within 120 feet of the mad wizard must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is overcome with laughing, falls prone, and becomes incapacitated. At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The mad wizard casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: mage hand, message, prestidigitation 3/day each: confusion, counterspell, dispel magic, mage armor 1/day each: globe of invulnerability, teleport REACTIONS Shield of Delusion. When the mad wizard is hit by an attack or targeted by a spell, her loose grip on reality protects her. She reduces the damage to 0, and an ally of her choice within 30 feet of her regains a number of hit points equal to the damage that was negated. LEGENDARY ACTIONS The mad wizard can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The mad wizard regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Cast a Spell. The mad wizard uses Spellcasting. Chaos Magic. The mad wizard uses Channel Raw Magic. Arcane Regeneration (Costs 2 Actions). The mad wizard regains an expended spell slot.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Gnome)
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

