# Madame Wheatwood

**description**: Madame Wheatwood On the surface, Adelaide Wheatwood looks like any other sweet old human lady with one too many cats. She’s warm and charming, gracing visitors with homemade confections and her doll-like, joyful countenance. Unless you’re a thief. Behind her delicate ruse, Madame Wheatwood is a 65-year-old badass: a dauntless world-class animal trainer with the voice of a chain-smoker. In her heyday, Madame Wheatwood was an elite cavalrywoman who could tame any beast for battle, but her devil-may-care attitude and blatant disregard for orders made her a liability for the regiments she served. Unemployed and out of options, a young Addy Wheatwood leveraged her talents outside the bounds of the law. It turned out to be quite lucrative. In addition to her duties as a fence, Madame Wheatwood runs Rock Bottom Ranch: an underground operation for breeding, training, and trading unusual and monstrous mounts. She even offers riding lessons to those who can stomach her ruthless training regimen. Madame Wheatwood uses the bandit captain stat block and never leaves home without a spell scroll of feather fall . Personality Trait . “Animals welcome. People tolerated.” Ideal . “I always help an animal in need.” Bond . “Rock Bottom Ranch is my home and the only place I can be myself.” Flaw . “Some call it tough love. I call it little patience for weakness.” Inventory Madame Wheatwood can provide the characters with virtually any piece of equipment related to mounted combat, such as saddles, barding, or lances. She sells them at normal cost but advertises them as “rock-bottom prices.” At the GM’s discretion, she may be willing to sell some of these items at a discount if they have heat. Madame Wheatwood also sells a selection of magic items useful in mounted combat, as outlined in the Wheatwood’s Wonders table. Item Price Horseshoes of speed 3,500 gp Potion of animal friendship 125 gp Potion of water breathing 250 gp Horseshoes of a zephyr 5,000 gp Spell scroll of feather fall 50 gp Special Service: Mounts Business booms at Rock Bottom Ranch. In addition to the mounts available for purchase in the core rules, Madame Wheatwood offers a selection of exotic mounts to trusted clients. She has a strict “You break it, you buy it” policy for adventurers who rent her mounts for dangerous missions. See the Rock Bottom Mounts table for available mounts and prices. Availability fluctuates at the GM’s discretion. Mount CR Rental Price (Per Day) Purchase Price Axe beak 1/4 30 gp 300 gp Giant bat 1/4 75 gp 750 gp Giant lizard 1/4 50 gp 500 gp Giant owl 1/4 125 gp 1,250 gp Giant toad* 1 100 gp 1,000 gp Hippogriff* 1 250 2,500 gp Nightmare* 3 750 gp 7,500 gp Owlbear* 3 300 gp 3,000 gp Pegasus 2 500 gp 5,000 gp Rhinocerous 2 200 gp 2,000 gp *Expanded rules for controlling this and other mounts can be found in Jumping on Mounted Combat ( ARCADIA 1) and Swimming Through Sand and Speed: More Mounted Adventuring ( ARCADIA 4) by Willy Abeel.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human)
- Expansion: 22441
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 11

