# Maelef Gullion

**description**: The Knower of Other Worlds Maelef has always been something of an enigma to the Matron Mother; while she is undoubtedly loyal, Naraneus has not blessed Maelora's eldest daughter. Rather than follow in the Matron’s bloody footsteps, Maelef has pursued an arcane path of her own. Maelef spent her youth disguising her lack of divine favor. She learned spells in the fashion of wizards, through study and practice, without any formal training, and she tailored those spells to appear as though they were bestowed by Naraneus. She partook in the rituals in praise of the dark goddess, and kept secret the true source of her burgeoning power. Unsure how long she could maintain the ruse, Maelef was certain the Spider Goddess was watching. In preparation for dealing with Maelora’s disappointment, Maelef set about a plan to make herself useful, beyond any gifts the goddess might grant. The young drow spent decades scouring the Underworld—through intermediaries—for answers. Her research brought her all manner of writings, magic, and knowledge. For those who would not barter their books and scrolls, Maelef sent thieves and assassins. Tales of shopkeeps found dead but with all their goods intact were the only indication of her plan in action. At times, whole caravans would be found in the wilds, seemingly abandon. For all this clandestine effort, Maelef built her library one book at a time. She paid well to ensure not a single sign of the drow was left behind; the disguised bandits even went so far as to use the weapons of other races, in case someone managed to send a message as the attack was in progress. As the years went by Maelef steadily built one of the largest repositories of knowledge in the Underworld. Maelef knew that a day would come when Maelora tasked her with something only a deity’s magic could accomplish, and then her ruse would end. When that time came, Maelef intended to secure her place as a font of worldly knowledge, or die in the effort. A dream sent to Maelora from the Spider Goddess thwarted Maelef’s plan. Naraneus commanded that while Maelef would not become the heir apparent, she yet had an important role to play. As Maelora set her plans in motion and declared war on the Under and Upperworld, Maelef’s vast knowledge became a distinct advantage when facing previously-unknown foes, and Maelora quickly began to consult her daughter prior to any attack. Of course Maelef certainly doesn’t lack a talent for intrigue or guile, so has developed these other avenues of interest now it is clear her Matron Mother isn’t going to support her as the next leader of House Gullion. When Maelora began to show a desire to move from simply undertaking attacks against enemies to enslaving any lands she could, and the Upperworld in particular, Maelef decided to use her position as the eldest daughter of Holoth’s First House to increase the size of her collection by obtaining hundreds of books from the surface. She continues to search for more, and remains a key part of the duplicity of the Underworld city through the knowledge gained via every scrap of literature she can remove from exotic lands. As most members of House Gullion know she isn’t heir to Maelora’s throne, Maelef commands relatively little power compared to her sisters. The exception is her cadre of thieves; the members of this compact group have all sworn a blood oath to ensuring knowledge from other places is brought to Maelef for the betterment of the drow herself, House Gullion, and Holoth. As part of their reward, these sharks have access to any roguish techniques described in the works they recover, and are known to develop and demonstrate some surprisingly un-drow-like abilities. For now Maelef is happy not to engage overly in the city’s politics, but does keep a mental record of every comment and action made against her; she won’t suffer much more of this, and senses Maelora will turn to her fully at some point during current events. The Eldest Daughter remains a cunning and dangerous individual, and greatly values her “free” life and information above all else. If it comes to a straight choice of either dying pointlessly for House Gullion or taking a chance in the Upperworld to save her knowledge, there is no contest, for written words speak louder than suicidal actions. Indeed, at a word, her collection will be instantly transported to a hidden series of rooms many miles from Holoth, along with Maelef herself. There, she has magic in place to transport the loyalist eight of her gatherers, ready to start a new life.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

