# Maelora Gullion

**description**: The Matron Mother The ruler of Holoth and leader of House Gullion is a drow matron. She carries no special equipment other than a vorpal longsword, but she gains a number of abilities as Naraneus’s chosen. She also has access to many hidden powers of the Vidrefacte. Matron Maelora, matriarch of House Gullion, dominates all who stand with her and commands respect even from those who oppose her. She is a skillful negotiator, religious visionary, and mother of nine mostly obedient children. As current ruler of Holoth, Maelora is the personification of drow nobility: a psychotic, pathological genius who undertakes whatever horrific activity is required, by any necessary means. Early Life Even in her nascent years, the young dark elf proved prodigious at weaving deceptions and ploys to undermine her adversaries and peers. Unprovable lies and disorientating half-truths, all delivered with the greatest sincerity and conviction, came naturally to her; those who were responsible for her upbringing rarely asked anything of her unless they were already certain of the answer, otherwise they would find themselves woven into a deceiving web of words that could lead to disaster for all concerned. Her birth was shrouded in mystery; when she came into the world her appearance left the clerics baffled, for the child was dotted with coarse, black setae and retained four withered vestigial limbs. The attendants knew who the father was—the bounty on his head for suggesting he had seduced a Matron, which was braggadocio at its worst, grew with each lunar cycle—and though he was striking, he was not arachnoid. When handled, the girl either wailed with indignation or tried to bite the nurse. These actions at first even extended to her mother when the two were put together, and within a few hours the girl was branded as a troublemaker. To the relief of all, the bristles and appendages fell away over the next few days and the child settled. This period of quiet was short-lived. All too quickly Maelora demonstrated a thaumaturgical skill beyond what should be possible for one so young: an alarming ability to produce at will a flare that bathed its victims in the sacred form of Naraneus. Those that cared for Maelora swiftly learned to carry a curative with them at all times as well as ways to make the youngster smile and giggle rather than coat them in the damaging radiance. The injuries were little more than a scratch at that stage, but irritating nonetheless. If the flames and minor wonders had been anything other than forms of the goddess, Maelora would almost certainly have been done away with very early in her life, particularly as she was her mother’s fourth daughter. As Maelora grew, it quickly became apparent that she was a cunning and dangerous individual. Even before reaching maturity, she was known for leaving any who displeased her either blind or deaf. Poisonings, too, were common. The child took great pleasure in watching slaves and servants fall ill from the same fare she so freely partook. As she matured, she started to feel deeply dissatisfied with her relatively low position in the house hierarchy: fourth in line. Given that her mother had birthed two further children after Maelora, the restless priestess saw an opportunity. Like a spider waiting for prey to alight its web, Maelora bided her time. The Auction of Nalc’Uk The story goes as follows. Having been left on the doorstep of Holoth, Nalc’Uk was purchased from the city guard by House Toulan. It was a simple, if secret transaction. Then within a week, every one of the recipient guards was sent to a battlefront far from Holoth, never to be heard of again. To this day, House Toulan gold is regarded as cursed in some very far flung Underworld settlements, and attempting to pay for something with it gets you killed instantly at best and used for foul purposes at worst. The Patron Father ensured that the dwarf was afforded every healing consideration to recover while inducing a number of dependencies into Nalc’Uk’s physical and mental systems. This took time, and many believed the Master either had grown tired of the dwarf or had made a mistake in his calculations, with either situation leading to Nalc’Uk’s demise. But rather than weaken the former mayor, the Master had strengthened the dwarf’s already-iron constitution, ensuring the man could endure long and painful privations that had him begging for release at every moment. After four years his work was done; without ceremony, the Patron Father put the Emblan up for sale to the highest bidder. Frenzy flooded the city as every noble worthy of the name vied to be the winner. The Master was cunning with the timing of the auction too. It lasted 33 days—a lunar cycle and the greatest five-day holiday celebrating the Spider Goddess, the city’s supreme deity. This wasn’t lost on the city’s citizens. Auctions in Holoth often take on a life of their own, as a series of interwoven strands come into play. It ought to be the case that the Matron Mother of the highest ranking house wins either by asserting her will, or by having the greatest riches at her disposal. But when it comes to exacting revenge on a non-Holothian, the whole city becomes involved. Those who desire truly to win find they can benefit from a “sum greater than its parts” by forming alliances, calling in favors, making extravagant promises alongside sinister threats, and providing public and private services of all types. All of this revolves around what a bidder vows to do to the person on whom revenge is being exacted; flamboyance, longevity, imagination, terror, and humiliation grab the crowd’s attention, and the more degrading the intended show, the better. Such sales also become a chance to eliminate rivals, and bidders often use their foes to demonstrate what they will do to the creature being auctioned. All in all, such events are riotous times indeed. Although just a young cleric in House Gullion, Maelora, grown frustrated with the lowly position of her house, the lack of skill and ambition in her Matron Mother, and her own thwarted dreams due to both of these, plunged herself into a series of deep, dangerous reveries about Naraneus, quaffing venomous drafts that took her to the edge of insanity, death, and worse. The Spider Goddess deigned to notice these dreams and chose to look within Maelora. The deity’s gaze was severe and judgmental, able to spin its recipient into eternal insanity if they were found wanting in even the slightest way. But Naraneus saw the woman to be full of righteous desire: for her goddess, her people, her house, and herself. So she granted Maelora permission to bid, despite both her lowly position in Holoth’s noble hierarchy and her Matron’s fearful approach to such events. At the same time, the Spider Goddess implanted in her newest vessel the start of an intricate web that would take decades to fully create but would ensure that She, Naraneus, could ultimately entrap a world! During the last of these visions, and with just eight days of the auction left, Maelora sprang into action. Prompted by great urgency, behind the scenes the young drow did absolutely all she could to raise private funds: she made extravagant promises to people she knew she couldn’t trust; she formed pacts with those whose influence was waning and hoped for one final chance to climb to power on her back; she took loans against everything she owned three times, knowing her mind, body, and soul would be taken if she failed to pay back her debts; she borrowed at exorbitant rates; and she called in every debt she was owed and renounced every threat of malicious influence she had over others in return for hard cash. At the same time as this, she spent the money by having a minor enemy assassinated on the hour every hour for the eight remaining days, each one killed by a different method that drew heavily on the physical and venomous methods associated with Naraneus. She did this anonymously, presenting only a stylized image of a Spider Goddess cleric as the initiator. The public flocked to her without knowing who she was, with banners displaying the likeness springing up everywhere even as more senior members of the nobility withdrew from the auction in fear of incurring the wrath of this mysterious high-powered cleric. With just 36 hours to go there were three bidders remaining and Maelora knew that either the auction would make her forever or break her on the back of the winner. Then she took her greatest gamble, one that only a Chosen of Naraneus would dare think of, let alone enact. She took the form of the most revered image of the Spider Goddess and visited House Toulan’s Patron Father. It was reckless beyond all belief, but that was what drove her: belief in Naraneus, belief in her destiny as a cleric of the Spider Goddess, and belief that the omens showed her winning and growing in power. Using honeyed words and just the right level of sinister imperiousness, Maelora, with the Patron Father by her side, communed with Naraneus for the night before the auction. The sound of goddess’ spirit within both of them echoed through the halls of the house, and none dared venture to their Father’s offices. The next morning, on the day of the auction, House Toulan was run by a man sure of his own position in Naraneus’ mind at the same time as he was fearful of it all being a narcotic-induced nightmare. For he’d been shown who was behind the mask of the Spider Goddess, who was responsible for over 150 killings in just seven days, and who had made him a thrall to his physical weaknesses. There was nothing he could do for he had been beaten by the better drow. Resigned to hoping he could survive what might come next, the Patron Father had promised enough of his personal funds to Naraneus’ Chosen to ensure the result She expected in the forthcoming auction. And so when the bidding took place that night, the mysterious cleric responsible for so much blood-letting and with so many promises to keep stepped forward to beat her two remaining rivals. With the entire low-caste population behind her, and to the horror of those who expected sport at her expense, Maelora won. Holoth was never the same. To this day rumors still spread of what other tortures the wayward dwarf suffered, and by now almost every Underworlder has heard one of the many tales of his 33 Enduring Sufferings; each lasted for a year, an event of as much pain as there was embarrassment. There were daily accounts of Nalc’Uk’s condition, frequent reports of what tools or venom had been used on him, and regular demonstrations on hapless foes of the methods being employed. Maelora’s power grew as did her clerical strength. At the same time, the web of dominion Naraneus intended to build through her work took form, and her name became a byword for fearful retribution. Occasionally, when Maelora descended into frenzied depravity that rivaled anything seen before, someone might say that perhaps Nalc’Uk had suffered enough. But all that came of any pleas for a cessation was the petitioner becoming an additional victim for the cleric’s horrific displays, always in front of Nalc’Uk, to ensure he was fully aware of his responsibility for the terrible deaths of his would-be saviors. And through all of this, the drow priestess used her clerical abilities to ensure that her prized dwarf never died. Finally Maelora’s display ended and an awed populace chose only to whisper her name. There’s no agreement in folklore as to what eventually became of the ruined Nalc’Uk. The most popular claims are that Maelora slowly and excruciatingly removed the dwarf’s ears, eyes, nails, “unnecessary” bones and extremities, and then quartered him but prevented his death, leaving him a senseless and maimed wretch. The final ignominy was to enchant him so that even now he projects a malevolent aura of death that either rapidly kills outright or induces a putrefying rot to everything he approaches, and that to this day he crawls through the Underworld, forever driven deeper into the subterranean darkness by a pair of the Matron Mother’s most adoring driders, themselves blessed with immortality by Naraneus. The Rise of Maelora After slaying her mother and ascending to the position of Matron, Maelora searched far and wide for ways to improve and cement her own position as well as elevate her house. Nothing seemed beyond her; everything she touched turned to the “gold” every senior drow craves; power! She took what she wanted from whoever had it, either by asking with an irresistible force behind her or by having her assassins and thieves demonstrate there was no such thing as an immovable object. She lavished rewards on those who succeeded as readily as she punished with great cruelty those who failed her. She demanded and received due deference even as she handed out retribution, for those who didn’t show proper gratitude soon found out that yesterday’s high regard could easily become tomorrow’s loathing. And as for those to whom she owed something? They either wrote off the debt as rapidly as possible or simply disappeared. If the next drow in line insisted on collecting, they too vanished. Matron Maelora sat at the center of the web designed by Naraneus, but knew she was charged with taking the fight beyond Holoth. This seemed impossible until she obtained the Vidrefacte from the exotic outsiders, and she has since developed plans that stretch beyond the subterranean realms and into Upperworld itself. Now she is instilled with supreme confidence—some would say unbridled arrogance, but never directly to a supporter of the matron—and has cast that web far beyond the borders of the drow-owned lands. No settlement is safe, whether insignificant myconid village or great dwarven city. So far, it appears her every decision and action has been considered worthy of success by Naraneus, and the goddess has ensured the matron’s name is spreading far and wide as a watchword for dread fear. The Matron Mother revels in her reputation, expending much of her waking energy on ensuring her actions speak much, much louder than the words of others. Whether the recent forays away from the Underworld are resource-gathering genius or outright folly is unclear—few surface dwellers have seen a drow until now, and the apparent ability to silently strike before disappearing into inky night is earning a label of “vengeful spirits” for the dark elves. Every report of blundering, cringing humanoids being dragged back to Holoth fills Maelora with deep satisfaction as she knows their souls will fuel the Vidrefacte and allow her to build an even greater empire. More practically, the soul-forged memories of the brawn of dwarves, insight of surface elves, bonhomie of halflings, inventiveness of gnomes, and all-round adaptability of humans are developing interesting forms and defenses within Tolgorith Tower. The Matron Mother’s efforts will eventually bring Naraneus’s plans to completion. Holoth will be at the center of a three-dimensional realm that reaches a mile above it, 10 miles below it, and 1,000 miles around it. It will be the greatest dark elf domain ever known, under the control of the one true representative of the Spider Goddess on the planet. After that is achieved, not even the loyalist of drow sages dare imagine how Maelora’s influence will spread, as their history will be entering new chapters. The only questions is whether Maelora will be at the center of that realm personally, ruling over the domain as only the chosen of a deity can do, or whether she will be a memory and talismanic former figurehead that one of her daughters will use to rally the drow of the future. For now it seems the answer is the first of these, but the leader of both house and city is careful not to displease her goddess, Naraneus, for that way folly resides!

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

