# Maganax

**description**: Though the maganax at first glance may appear to simply be a red-scaled arcanax, the magic that these fire-attuned creatures wield is of a less flashy nature and focuses on controlling their enemies as they fight in melee combat. Like the arcanax, they are somewhat resistant to magical harm, but their death leads to an eruption of raw arcane force, rather than death energy. Gliders. Although dragonblooded have wings, the majority of them are incapable of true flight and are only able to glide. Except for the Voludan, a dragonblooded’s fly speed can’t be used to gain altitude, and they drop 5 feet per round that they remain aloft. Tactics. The tactics used by the dragonblooded vary by their type, but can be generally summarized as single-minded in service to their creator. Each dragonblooded seeks to make the best use of their death as possible, and may even hasten their own demise when escape seems impossible if it means harming a greater number of foes in the process. Traits Arcane Body. The maganax's Injury thresholds are considered 5 higher for Injuries inflicted with spells. It also has advantage on saving throws against spells that would inflict an Injury as part of the spell. Arcane Bomb. When the maganax dies, it erupts in raw magical energy. Each creature within a 10-foot radius must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away from the maganax and take 24 (7d6) force damage. On a successful save creatures take half damage and are not pushed. Innate Spellcasting. The maganax casts spells using its Charisma. The DC for saving throws against its spells is 15 and its spell attack bonus is +7. Actions Burning Claw. Melee Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6+2) slashing damage, plus 10 (3d6) fire damage. Mindfire. The maganax chooses a creature within 60 feet and sets its nerves ablaze with pain. That creature must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 18 (4d8) psychic damage and have its speed reduced to 0 (and it can’t benefit from any bonus to its speed) until the end of its next turn. A successful saving throw halves the damage and negates the speed reduction. Bane (recharge 5-6). The maganax casts bane at 3rd level. Up to four creatures of the maganax’s choice that it can see within 30 feet must make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw. Whenever a target that fails this saving throw makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the attack roll or saving throw. Wrack (recharge 5-6). The maganax casts wrack *. One creature within 60 feet must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or take 18 (4d8) psychic damage and be stunned until the end of the maganax’s next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature takes half damage and is sickened until the start of its next turn instead. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs. Hold Person (1/Rest). The maganax casts hold person at 4th level. Three humanoids the maganax can see within 60 feet that are within 30 feet of each other when it targets them must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute (requires concentration). At the end of each of its turns, targets can make a new Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell ends on the target.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (dragon)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

