# Maggie Keeneyes (Tier 3)

**description**: People might laugh when a 12-foot-tall ogre orders a drink at a bar and says her name is Maggie, but they don’t laugh for long. Some people fixate on her name, her enormous size, her muscles, or the weapon at her side. Wiser folk take notice of Maggie’s bright blue eyes. All her life, people have considered Maggie a stupid meathead because of her size, but her eyes betray her intelligence. She can read others with a glance, whether in conversation or in a duel. When her eyes dart back and forth across a battlefield, they take in enough information to give her allies an advantage in the fight. Things changed for Maggie when she first arrived in Jigow and met Ayo Jabe three weeks ago. She came looking for mercenary work to make ends meet but found a true friend instead. Ayo saw the intelligence in Maggie’s eyes and was keen to hear Maggie’s thoughts. They became fast friends, and Maggie would sooner die than let harm come to her new companion. Maggie loves poetry and music with profound lyrics, as well as matching wits with people as clever as she is. She hates being stereotyped and has a dim view of those who are too quick to judge others. Rivals’ Goals Spar with a true tactical genius; write a song or poem that causes someone to weep with emotion; be able to retire and never kill again Rival Tiers Just as the characters advance in level and gain new equipment over the course of this adventure, so do the rivals increase in power. Each rival is represented by three stat blocks. Tier 3 Rivals Their journey has forced the tier 3 rivals to make decisions, sometimes out of grim necessity, that they might have not made earlier. All five suffer from ruidium corruption (see “Ruidium” in the introduction). When the characters encounter them, assume that the rivals have removed all levels of exhaustion from themselves through rest or magic, but the other effects of ruidium corruption remain. If instead you want to weaken the rivals to make them less of a physical threat or reinforce the danger of ruidium corruption, you can give one or more of the rivals 1d4 levels of exhaustion each. In this case, you’ll need to keep track of each rival’s exhaustion level and the condition’s corresponding effects (see “Exhaustion” in the Player’s Handbook ). Useful Magic. To facilitate their efforts, Galsariad has learned the water breathing spell. Additionally, all the rivals have acquired ruidium equipment to protect them from the effects of underwater pressure. Traits Push. Once during each of her turns, after hitting a creature with an attack, Maggie can force the target to make a DC 16 Strength saving throw; on a failed save, the target is pushed up to 15 feet horizontally away from Maggie and knocked prone. Special Equipment. Maggie wears a suit of ruidium armor (plate; see appendix B). If Maggie rolls a 1 on a saving throw while wearing the armor, she must succeed on a DC 20 Charisma saving throw or gain 1 level of exhaustion. Tactical Readiness. Maggie and allies within 30 feet of her have advantage on initiative rolls, as long as Maggie isn’t incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. Maggie makes two Heavy Greataxe or Hammer Toss attacks. Heavy Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 16 (2d12 + 5) slashing damage. Hammer Toss. Ranged Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 15 (4d4 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Bonus Actions Rally (1/Day). Maggie targets one creature she can see within 60 feet of herself and bolsters it with words of encouragement. The target gains 30 temporary hit points if it can see or hear Maggie.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant (Ogre)
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 13016
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Call of the Netherdeep

