# Magma Elemental

**description**: These elementals are born from the burning embers and discarded earthly ores from the work of the God of the Forge. They can be found in the elemental plane of fire, the plane of magma, or places in the material plane where volcanic activity is present and constant. Their appearance is rarely consistent, as they look like ever-shifting blobs of magma that take on a vaguely humanoid form only when intentionally attacking. At any other time they resemble an ooze-like creature more than an elemental. Despite belonging to a very dangerous element, their typical behavior is rather calm and lazy. They prefer resting alongside currents of molten rock rather than do anything else. Moreover, they are not known as aggressive until they are threatened, in which case they are extremely dangerous. Tools of the Strong. As a result of their easy going nature they often end up being used by smarter and more powerful beings. It is not uncommon to see them act as a deterrent to the entry of a red dragon’s lair, for example. Elementals These beings are intrinsically tied with the domains of various gods, even said to be divine servants at times. They are the object of study of many wizards and theologists for this reason. About the Greek Elementals These elementals very much resemble those present in the Monster Manual and work on similar mechanical structures. Elemental Nature: An elemental doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Subject to Conjuration: An spellcaster can summon these elementals through the conjure elementals spell, by using an appropriate spell slot to the Challenge Rating of each elemental. Traits Magma Form. The elemental can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. A creature that touches the elemental or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 5 (1d10) fire damage and must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or the weapon becomes stuck in the elemental. If the weapon's wielder can't or won't let go of the weapon, the wielder is grappled while the weapon is stuck. While stuck, the weapon can't be used. Until the grapple ends, the wielder takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. To end the grapple, the wielder can release the weapon or pull it free by taking an action to make a DC 16 Strength check and succeeding. Actions Multiattack. The elemental makes two magma slam attacks. Magma Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) fire damage. Magma Glob. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 20/40ft., one target. Hit: 17 (5d6) fire damage. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) fire damage at the start of its next turn. Magma Wave (Recharge 6). The elemental sprays magma in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If a creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it catches fire. Until someone takes an action to douse the fire, the creature takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

