# Makinnga Gullion

**description**: Gatekeeper of the Crypt Makinnga was an oddity from the moment of her birth; two of her great, great, great grandparents showed up at the moment of her arrival, which may not seem so strange for long-lived elves, except they had both been dead for more than 500 years, killed in the war against the gold wyrm Calanthaxtorishal and his troops in the defense of Holoth. Ucecarne and Venthori were once drow of great renown, not just in House Gullion but across the city and beyond, and had been at the vanguard of the war. Yet the dragon had swept away their undead forces. The couple bought precious time for the rest of the defenders to rally themselves. Their sacrifice was still celebrated within the family, and their unexpected appearance was an especially good omen for the child. They appeared at Makinnga’s mother’s bedside with two gifts that were both strange and beguiling: a periapt of foul rotting and a scarab of death. Ignoring the gasps of fear and fevered protestations of all the others in the room, not least Makinnga’s mother, Ucecarne the wizard placed the scarab into Makinnga’s right hand as Venthori the cleric pressed the periapt into her left. Makinnga clutched the two items, in the way any small child would grip anything new and interesting, and simply giggled, with no sign of ill effect from either accursed gift. The child’s grip on them remained, even when an attendant went to take the items away. So the onlookers waited until the she fell asleep, dropping the artifacts into small lead boxes decorated with platinum. But no matter how securely they were stowed away, they regularly and frequently reappeared in the girl’s hands. As she grew, Makinnga was visited on rare occasions by Ucecarne and Venthori, but only when alone. Many of House Gullion thought the young girl made these encounters up, voicing the opinion that the tales were nothing more than the description of a youngster’s imaginary friends and that Makinnga was trying to outdo her older sisters, but if anyone openly disbelieved the girl they invariable found themselves in possession of one or other of her birth-gifts and that was their lot. Often, all that was found of such individuals was a single crawling claw, perhaps with a distinctive ring or glove still in place, desperately trying to get away from House Gullion. It became a game for other house youngsters to chase after these wretched hands and stamp on them until they were dust. It was soon noted that as time went by Makinnga attracted more than her fair share of interest from the undead workers and soldiers of the city. On trips away from the house—even just in the vicinity of House Gullion let alone around the city as a whole—skeletons, zombies and other minor undead beings would stop whatever it was they were doing and begin to trail after her, often away from their overseers. It was as though undead turned their will to Makinnga’s whim in her presence. It was this disjointed empathy that would eventually manifest as an unspoken, and perhaps even unrealized, trust between her and Maltorya. As the seer withdrew from the world of the living, her outlook and persona became that of someone no longer concern with life. Makinnga found herself drawn to listen to Maltorya’s ramblings. It is from these words of seeming nonsense that Makinnga learned of the Moonshard. Though still very young for elfkind, Makinnga was tasked with overseeing the crypts of House Gullion, at which she proved to be more than adept. Helped along by the tutelage of the undead she had been given responsibility for, instruction that far outweighed what even the longest-lived sage could have provided, she has since raised a veritable army of supernatural creatures, all of which have sworn an oath of timeless loyalty to her, and many of which have given their unlife in pursuit of House Gullion’s plans. Curiously, Makinnga herself shows no outward sign of intent to abuse her growing power. Instead, her attention is focused on the comfort of her charges, and little else. Within the familial machinations that take place, Makinnga’s siblings are only too ready to dismiss her as an anomaly to be ignored. The Matron Mother trusts Makinnga explicitly, even as she fails to understand the child. In truth, Makinnga is perhaps the only one who has heard Maltorya’s cryptic words and deciphered their meaning. If Matron Maelora is doomed to fail, there is no reason House Gullion must accompany her. When she became aware of the machinations of the Moonshard, involvement of the heroes, and the eventual destruction of the Vidrefacte, she learned that prophecy cannot be avoided, but it can be controlled. “Physical death is a process, more than a final event: what many consider conditions indicative of final death are just stages along the path of life, unlife or undeath, and death. Indeed, death itself is reversible, and thus should be considered as no more than a temporary inconvenience. Where in the process a dividing line is drawn between “being alive” and “final death” depends on factors beyond the presence or absence of vital signs. In general, a healer’s accepted definition of death is neither necessary nor sufficient for a determination of deific death. A creature with working heart and lungs determined to be brain dead can be pronounced visibly dead without deific death occurring. As arcane knowledge and divine wisdom grow, setting out a precise definition of death becomes more difficult, and allows the acceptable states of unlife or undeath to increase.” —Makinnga Gullion

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

