# Malach, Angel of Flesh

**description**: Once a manikin, forged like countless others by the hands of the Scions, Malach found itself twisted and warped by its loathing for the races of flesh. Donning a macabre suit crafted from the very skin of those it had slain, Malach's mechanical form lay concealed beneath this grisly mantle. Its form is that of a blasphemous angel, its wings composed not of feathers but of a multitude of hands and heads, each reaching and grasping, desperate souls trying to flee this prison of flesh. The face of this monstrous being, rent asunder in some long-forgotten conflict, now unveils its original visage of exquisite gold. Mechanized Malevolence The metamorphosis into this grotesque perversion of an angel transpired gradually, as Malach sought to augment its own form by sewing the dismembered remains of its vanquished foes upon itself. Ever more powerful it grew, until at last it brimmed with the arcane power it sought, leeched from the grafted limbs of its enemies. No madness plagued Malach, but rather its own psychotic mind, driven to eradicate the very beings that had spawned its wretched, empty existence. It harbored a seething hatred for the frailty of flesh, for where flesh falters, metal endures, and Malach had endured enough. Consumed by a maelstrom of destruction, it seeks to bring about the annihilation of those born of flesh. Malice Unbound The origins of Malach's revulsion toward flesh are uncertain. Perhaps it had been spurned by humans and elves, abused and mocked by them; perhaps it bore the mark of a flaw in its creation; or in complete opposition to that theory, perhaps Malach was the perfect construct, imbued with both soul and sentience, its spirit wracked with torment as it witnessed the silent suffering of its fellow manikins. Its weapon of choice, a censer, exudes a pestilential miasma that suffocates and poisons those formed of flesh—a fitting tool for one who bears such deep-seated hatred towards the living. For each manikin that falls to Luyarnha’s bloodthirsty madness, Malach shall rend twice as many mortal souls. In its zealous mission, Malach emerges as ally or foe, depending on the beholder's intent. To those who made the mistake of being born of flesh, it is an implacable adversary, its censer an omen of retribution. Yet, to those who stand beside Malach in its quest to topple the reign of flesh, it serves as a monstrous champion, one who shall not waver from its fell mission. Traits Angel of Flesh. Malach's form changes according to his hit points, losing his mantle of flesh when reduced below half his hit point maximum: While he has more than 81 hit points, Malach is draped in the flesh of the foes he fell. He has the following benefits: A flying speed of 120 feet, using his wings of flesh. Advantage on Perception checks that rely on sight. He can cast alter self at will, requiring no components, disguising himself with flesh. While he has 81 hit points or fewer, Malach reveals the perfected golden machine beneath, and has the following benefits: Advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws against effects he can see. He can make two additional censer attacks as part of his Multiattack A +2 bonus to AC His speed is increased by 20 feet. Champion of Constructs. Malach can telepathically communicate to and understand constructs within 500 feet of him. Consuming Hatred. If Malach starts his turn within 5 feet of an enemy humanoid, he must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become consumed by wrath and spend his action attacking the creature with his censer. Deadly Miasma. Malach's censer emits a 10-foot-radius sphere of poisonous fog centered on itself. The fog spreads around corners and lightly obscures the area. When a non-construct creature enters the fog's area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save a creature takes 13 (3d8) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned. Creatures are affected even if they hold their breath or don't need to breathe. Innate Spellcasting. Malach’s innate spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). Malach can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components. At will: charm person, command, prestidigitation 2/day each: major image, ray of enfeeblement 1/day: dominate person Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If Malach fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons. Malach's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. Malach makes two censer attacks. Censer. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning and 9 (2d8) poison damage. Create Miasma. Malach creates a 15-foot-radius sphere of poisonous fog centered on a point within 60 feet of him. The fog spreads around corners. It lasts until the end of Malach's next turn. Its area is heavily obscured for creatures other than Malach. The fog otherwise functions like that of his Deadly Miasma trait. Bane of Flesh (Recharge 6). Malach chooses a non-construct creature he can see within 15 feet of him and attempts to rip out its flesh with vile magic. The creature must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 27 (6d8) poison damage and 27 (6d8) lightning damage. Creatures within Malach's Deadly Miasma have disadvantage on this saving throw and the weakening miasma causes the damage to ignore damage resistance. Legendary Actions Malach can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Malach regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Attack. Malach makes one censer attack. Zealous Path. Malach moves up to his speed. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. Miasma (Costs 2 Actions). Malach uses his Create Miasma. Higher Purpose (Costs 3 Actions). Malach reaches for a higher purpose. This effect changes based on his Angel of Flesh trait. If above 81 hit points, Malach releases an all-powerful miasma with a 20-foot radius centered on a point 120 feet of him. Each non-construct creature in the area must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or become paralyzed until the end of Malach's next turn. While paralyzed in this way, a creature automatically fails its saving throws against Malach's Deadly Miasma. If at or below 81 hit points, Malach uses his golden form to release a glimmer of sickening light. Each non-construct creature within 120 feet of Malach must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 18 (4d8) radiant damage and become poisoned for 1 minute. This ignores immunity to the poisoned condition. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: construct
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

