# Malaxxix

**description**: Malaxxix the Shackler Legends describe the dread being Malaxxix as the child of one of the night hags who created the first yugoloths. Malaxxix is often lumped in with such Fiends, perhaps because it too has a grand intellect and self-centered agenda. Malaxxix’s machinations are many, but it is most infamous for crafting cursed armaments and distributing them throughout the multiverse in the hope that they’ll be found by mortals who are desperate for power and ripe for corruption. Malaxxix seeks the Books of Keeping : ancient tomes that contain the true names of all yugoloths. To this end, it patrols the vilest swaths of the multiverse from atop its unholy vehicle, the Unborn Palanquin. This shambling collective is made up of thousands of mezzoloths devoted to their liege, who roams the Lower Planes as a tyrannical marauder. Using Malaxxix in a Game Malaxxix is a powerful and violent brute, an ideal enemy for a deadly high-level combat encounter anywhere in the multiverse. The best way to presage such a confrontation is to present the party with one or more of Malaxxix’s custom-made cursed items, exposing characters to the curse of Malaxxix. Sample cursed items and rules for the curse of Malaxxix are included below. Malaxxix’s creations appear at fortuitous times. A character might find one days after some great misfortune, such as after wronging a powerful hag or drawing the Flames card from a Deck of Many Things . Of course, you can also place such a cursed item in your next dungeon or among an otherwise unremarkable treasure hoard. Once a character attunes to one of Malaxxix’s cursed items, that character becomes afflicted with the yugoloth’s curse. Malaxxix can spy upon any creature so afflicted and can teleport to a cursed creature at will. Malaxxix typically reserves this attention for creatures it believes might advance its goal of locating the Books of Keeping. It could be some time before Malaxxix presents itself to the party. Beforehand, Malaxxix is likely to craft additional cursed items for the party to find on their adventures, then watch in delight as the characters squirm under the weight of their unholy armaments. Only once Malaxxix has tired of the characters does it teleport to the characters’ location, attempt to slay the buffoonish mortals, and reclaim the treasures. Roleplaying Malaxxix Malaxxix is a being of great cunning, terrible rage, and insatiable bloodlust who regards any opportunity to inflict misery on others as worthwhile. When Malaxxix deigns to speak with others, the fiend displays grandiloquent diction and a pompous demeanor—a stark contrast to the yugoloth’s usual fury. Malaxxix’s Lair The Unborn Palanquin—a monstrous, centipedal vehicle—serves as both Malaxxix’s primary conveyance and the Fiend’s lair. Malaxxix can take lair actions (see below) while astride the palanquin. When encountered on the palanquin, Malaxxix’s challenge rating is 19 (22,000 XP). The Unborn Palanquin The Unborn Palanquin is a wormlike leviathan of screeching gears made up of hundreds of tireless mezzoloths. It is a unique vehicle and Gargantuan object with the following statistics: Armor Class: 20 Hit Points: 250 Speed: 50 ft., burrow 30 ft. Damage Immunities: poison, psychic Only Malaxxix can pilot this vehicle. If Malaxxix is slain, the palanquin crumbles in seconds. Lair Actions In its lair on initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Malaxxix can take one of the following lair actions; Malaxxix can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Reassemble. Malaxxix chooses either itself or the palanquin. The target gains 19 (3d12) temporary hit points. Slam. Malaxxix commands the palanquin to slam the ground. Each creature within 15 feet of the palanquin must make a DC 20 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and has the prone condition. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage only. Surge. Malaxxix commands the palanquin to move up to its speed. Regional Effects The region around the Unborn Palanquin is warped by its presence, creating the following effects: Cranial Discomfort. Creatures that spend more than 24 hours within 1 mile of the palanquin hear an incessant scraping sound in their minds. Grinding Gears. Constructs within 1 mile of the palanquin move sluggishly. Constructs’ speeds are halved, and they have disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws. Swarming Insects. Insects and insectile Beasts within 1 mile of the palanquin become disoriented and aggressive, coalescing into unnatural swarms and attacking any creatures in sight. If Malaxxix dies or the Unborn Palanquin is destroyed, these effects end immediately. Curse of Malaxxix A creature that attunes to one of Malaxxix’s cursed items becomes afflicted with the curse of Malaxxix. The curse enables Malaxxix to interact with the cursed creature in special ways: Scrying. Malaxxix can cast the Scrying spell on the cursed creature without material components or a spell slot. Malaxxix doesn’t need to be on the same plane of existence as the creature to use this ability, and the creature automatically fails the saving throw against the spell. Teleport. As an action, Malaxxix can teleport, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, to an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the cursed creature, regardless of the creature’s location in the multiverse. The curse of Malaxxix lasts until ended with a Remove Curse spell, a Greater Restoration spell, or similar magic. Cursed Magic Items Here are two items Malaxxix crafted and placed on the Material Plane for unsuspecting mortals. In addition to their other properties, one or both of these items might bear the curse of Malaxxix (see above). Blasted Goggles Shrieking Greaves Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Malaxxix fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Malaxxix has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. Malaxxix makes two Forge Hammer or Whip attacks in any combination. Forge Hammer. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 60/180 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage, and the target can’t take reactions until the end of Malaxxix’s next turn. Hit or Miss: The hammer then magically returns to Malaxxix’s hand. Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 30 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) slashing damage, and the target has the restrained condition for 1 minute. The restrained target can make a DC 20 Strength saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Only one creature can be restrained by the whip at a time. Mezzoloth Vortex (Recharge 5–6). Malaxxix summons a vortex of whirling mezzoloths at a point it can see within 90 feet of itself. The vortex is a 30-foot-radius, 100-foot-high cylinder centered on that point. Each creature other than Malaxxix in that area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) force damage and has the restrained condition while within the cylinder. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and is pushed to the nearest unoccupied space outside the cylinder. The vortex lasts until the start of Malaxxix’s next turn. Legendary Actions Malaxxix can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Malaxxix regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Fiendish Stride. Malaxxix moves up to its speed. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. When Malaxxix moves within 5 feet of a creature during this movement, that creature takes 5 (1d10) lightning damage. A creature can take this damage only once per turn. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). Malaxxix makes one Forge Hammer or Whip attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Yugoloth)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 27234
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Book of Many Things

