# Maligno

**description**: Maligno (Muh-lig-noh) If a depraved and misanthropic humanoid who has done countless atrocities against its own kind dies in an accursed forest, a deity like Auril, Malar, or the Queen of Air and Darkness may reincarnate it as a maligno, an insidious and malevolent engkanto. The maligno appears as a shadowy humanoid figure with bestial eyes that glow red in the dark. It wears the bark of a gnarly and twisted dead tree like a skin, and its limbs end in long, razor-sharp claws. Sometimes it will don the bones and skulls of its victims like dreadful head and shoulder ornaments. Wicked, Twisted, and Cruel. The maligno seethes in the darkness, waiting to unleash its wrath on any mortal that might intrude on its realm and waylay anyone else that might stray too close to its territory. To protect its realm, the maligno corrupts those around its grove, transforming all flora and fauna living within it into dreadful, twisted, and evil reflections of themselves. If a humanoid settlement is established near its lands, the maligno will send its minions to destroy it. Some folk who rely on the bounties of the forest try to appease the maligno by sending its young to it to be sacrificed. Creature of Nightmare. In combat, the maligno is a terrifying and deadly opponent. Its mere supernatural presence can paralyze creatures with fear, while its dreadful claws can wither its victims to death. If faced with multiple foes, the maligno has an array of powerful spells it can use to confuse, dominate, maim, and snuff the life of its targets. A Maligno's Lair The lair of a maligno is a dreadful grove of dismal, misshapen trees with branches that look more like claws. The maligno attracts the company of blackroot treants, bugbears, dark duwendes, death's head trees, evil darklings, goblins, hags, harpies, meazels, quicklings, redcaps, tikbalangs, and will-o'-wisps. These creatures revere and are subservient to the maligno. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the maligno takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the maligno can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The maligno casts bestow curse (no components required) and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. The effect ends after 1 minute, or if the maligno uses this lair action again. The maligno casts entangle (no components required) and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. A creature that starts its turn restrained takes 5 (2d4) piercing damage from thorns. The effect ends after 1 minute, or if the maligno uses this lair action again. The maligno unleashes a wave of madness. Each creature within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or must use its reaction to move up to half its speed toward a creature of the maligno's choice that it can see and make one weapon attack against it. Regional Effects The region containing a maligno’s lair is warped by the maligno’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Once per day, the maligno can alter the weather in a 6-mile radius centered on its lair. The maligno doesn’t need to be outdoors; otherwise the effect is identical to the control weather spell. Beasts and plant creatures within 1 mile of the lair become evil and violent — even creatures that are normally docile. Thickets form labyrinthine passages within 1 mile of the maligno’s lair. The thickets act as 10-foot-high, 10-foot-thick walls that block line of sight. Creatures can move through the thickets, with every 1 foot a creature moves costing it 4 feet of movement. A creature in the thickets must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw once each round it’s in contact with the thickets or take 3 (1d6) piercing damage from thorns. Each 10-foot-cube of thickets has AC 5, 30 hit points, resistance to bludgeoning and piercing damage, vulnerability to fire damage, and immunity to psychic and thunder damage. If the maligno dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Engkanto (Eng-kaan-toh) Despite their plant-like appearance, engkantos are actually mighty fey spirits that dwell in the Material Plane. They were once humanoids who died in ancient enchanted forests and, through Feywild magic or by a nature deity's intervention, were reincarnated into engkantos. They may not fully recall their mortal life, but engkantos will occasionally see glimpses of their past. This sometimes leaves engkantos confused and even frustrated. Thankfully, the forest where it now lives gives enkantos a sense of peace. In return, the engkantos become its mighty guardian. Engkantos tend to be reclusive and very rarely show themselves to nonwoodland dwellers. However, they are fascinated with the humanoids who live near their territories, perhaps because it reminds them of their past. At times, enkantos even act as their invisible guardians and even transform themselves into normal humanoids to get closer to the neighbors' communities, possibly mingling with them without them knowing of their true nature. Nature's Guardians. Engkantos see themselves as protectors and wardens of the forests and its inhabitants and often work with druids. Because of this, they often come into conflict with those who enter, encroach, and defile their territories, which can span miles of wooded areas, though how they react and pursue a course of action dramatically differs from one another. There are three types of engkantos: anitos, diwatas, and malignos. Grove-bound. Engkantos are bound to a special grove or group of trees, just like a dryad is bound to a tree. An engkanto can emerge from any of the trees within its grove and travel the lands around it, but the grove remains its home and roots the enkanto to the Material Plane. As long as one tree from the grove remains alive and unharmed, the engkanto stays healthy. If any of the trees are harmed, the engkanto suffers. If the grove is ever destroyed, the engkanto descends into madness and will seek vengeance against those responsible. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the maligno fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The maligno has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Plant Camouflage. The maligno has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuring plant life. Regeneration. The maligno regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it is within 120 feet of its grove. If the maligno takes fire or radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the maligno’s next turn. The maligno’s body is destroyed only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Speak with Beasts and Plants. The maligno can communicate with beasts and plants as if they and the maligno shared a language. Spell Penetration. When the maligno casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The maligno can use its Terrifying Presence. It then makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Terrifying Presence. Each creature of the maligno’s choice that the maligno can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the maligno for 1 minute. The frightened creature is paralyzed. The frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the maligno’s Terrifying Presence for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The maligno casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks): At will: bestow curse, chill touch (4d8), dancing lights, druidcraft, entangle, invisibility, tree stride 2/day each: blight, confusion, erupting earth, phantasmal killer, polymorph, wrath of nature 1/day each: circle of death, contagion, dominate person, geas, insect plague Change Shape. The maligno magically transforms into a Medium humanoid, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the maligno is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Legendary Actions The maligno gains 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The maligno regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The maligno moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Claw. The maligno makes a Claw attack. Debilitating Gaze. The maligno turns its magical gaze toward one living creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and gain 1 level of exhaustion. Cast Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The maligno innately casts a spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

