# Maltorya Gullion

**description**: The Eyes and Ears of What Cannot Be Seen or Heard Maltorya attracted attention from an early age, although not all of it was appreciated by the house matron. The girl seemed to have the uncanny knack of knowing just what was going on, and rarely keeping that information to herself. The child was not infrequently visited by spectral undead, ethereal travelers, and scrying apparitions. The house diviners and sages quickly grew to relish the task of sifting through the words of the child to draw out their specific, and invariably accurate, meaning. Maltorya’s insights seemed to be worth a great deal to those who begged an audience with the child, and protecting her became important, then essential, as she predicted the rise of the house and the method of its advance with unerring accuracy years before it happened. The books and records of her words took on a legendary, almost mythical status. It was rumored that anyone who owned a page from one of these books would have great fortune in their most heartfelt endeavor, although whether that fortune would be good or bad was never clear. This tale gained such traction that more than one servant was caught trying to steal a leaf from one of the records, and suffered greatly as a result, if only to emphasis the degree of “misfortune” that would befall those found to be inept thieves. Eventually Maltorya learned to keep her portents to herself and use them to influence events, always with House Gullion’s interests at heart. Her ability grew from simple augury to true prophecy. Amongst the drow of Holoth, the phrase “Maltorya’s Wisdom will guide us” is used to colloquially describe that feeling of doubt one experiences when taking great risks. The phrase is tantamount to saying, “Don’t worry, we have no control over our fates.” Before long, the Matron took every word Maltorya uttered as house gospel and followed the path laid out as closely as possible. But such was the delayed accuracy of the course predicted by Maltorya that it wasn’t long before the Matron believed that such an easy advancement didn’t need to be followed exactly. Maelora began to only hear the parts which highlighted growth and her personal glory, rather than ensure that House Gullion’s foundations were set firm for the distant future as well as the here-and-now. She chose to ignore the warning notes and cryptic suggestions that all might not be well—Maltorya knew better than to come right out with the mistakes the Matron had made even in her protected position—until the path Maltorya knew to be true, and the one her mother announced to the members of the house, were no longer one and the same. Now Maltorya is charged with finding a solution to the Matron’s problems by any means possible, including delving deep into the history of Holoth. Her biggest concern is that she sees her mother’s actions as a fragile web with every strand under great tension. Occasionally a strand snaps and the whole weakens. Through Maelora’s force of will alone, it seems, does the web remain intact, but Maltorya sees only one end. She isn’t sure how to relate this news to her mother, who tends to take bad reports poorly. But she also is aware that not revealing what she knows will be seen as an act of betrayal, should her foreknowledge be discovered. Now Maltorya spends long hours peering far into the future in a desperate attempt to draw the most positive path from the Matron Mother’s decisions. Maltorya travels the planes at no small risk to herself, often taking a retinue of expendable undead along to act as distractions should the need to return prove urgent. She has learned the language of outsiders and is beginning to get a grasp of the elemental tongues without the use of magic. She learned Terran first, to better understand the nuances and inflections required to deal with the most ancient of texts buried deep within the Underworld. Increasingly she feels more at home on the outer planes than she does in Holoth, and as she delves deeper into prophecy and dream visions, her disconnect with the Material Plane only grows. Maltorya seeks only to guide House Gullion to ever greater heights, but Naraneus has made it clear that Maelora’s current path of hubris, even insolence in the face of the goddess, only ends in ruin for the Matron.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

