# Manananggal

**description**: Manananggal (Muh-nuh-nuhng-guhl) The disturbing manananggal is a vicious self-segmenting aswang that feeds on the heart, liver, and intestines of humanoids. By day, the manananggal appears as an attractive and charming humanoid, often with pale skin and long hair. In its horrifying fiend form, it resembles a disembodied upper torso of a humanoid with a pair of large, bat-like wings sprouting from its back and intestines dangling from under its exposed, severed waist. It has bloodshot eyes, wiry unkempt hair, leathery skin, a mouth filled with jagged teeth, a long, serpentine tongue, and claw-like hands that end in razor-sharp talons. Self-Segmentation. The manananggal's name means "to sever." When the manananggal transforms into its demonic form, it goes through a painful process where its torso separates from its lower body at the waist. Because its lower body becomes vulnerable while in this form, the manananggal takes steps to protect it, often hiding it in the attic, concealed compartments, or behind secret walls. The manananggal must attach itself back to its lower body before dawn, or else it will slowly die. If its lower body is destroyed, or if salt or garlic is poured on the exposed section of the lower body, the manananggal won't be able to attach itself. Opportunity Hunters. Manananggals often take up occupations of one who meets many people during the day, such as bakers, locksmiths, or shopkeepers. It provides them an opportunity to find potential victims, like pregnant women and children, because manananggals prefer to dine on unborn fetuses and the organs of young folk. By nightfall, they transform and head toward the home of their marked prey. Once there, they search for an opening into their sleeping target's room, often using open windows, chimneys, and roof egresses to gain access. Manananggals avoid direct combat, but if they are unable to feed via their preferred method, it searches and stalks for other suitable prey, targeting lone victims. Aswang (Uh-swung) An aswang is an accursed humanoid that transforms into a fiend. In its natural form, an aswang resembles a typical humanoid. At night, it can change its shape into a cunning, demonic predator. It hunts other humanoids and feasts on their blood, organs, or life force. Aswang Curse. A humanoid creature can be afflicted by the aswang curse after it willingly made or was tricked into making a dark pact with a Demon Lord, sometimes through the actions of a hag. One can also be born into it if one or both of its parents are aswangs. Casting remove curse, greater restoration , or similar spell can free a humanoid of the curse, but a natural born aswang can only be freed of the curse with a wish . An aswang can either resist its curse or welcome it. By fighting the curse, an aswang keeps its normal behavior and personality while in its natural form. It can try to live its life as it wants but must constantly stave off the urge to feed. However, at nights of the full moon, the hunger becomes too great, and the curse overcomes the individual, forcing it to transform into its fiendish form. An aswang driven to this state becomes ravenous and will not stop hunting until it has fed. Each night that it fails to feed in its fiend form, it gains 1 level of exhaustion. A genuinely depraved individual, or someone corrupted by it, sees the aswang curse as a gift and, over time, masters the ability to change into a fiend. However, an aswang can only transform at night and retain its demonic form until dawn, at which point it automatically transforms back to its humanoid form. Masters of Deception. Aswangs hide in plain sight, living amongst normal folk and often taking up occupations like butchers, hunters, gravediggers, taxidermists, and trappers to help divert suspicions of why their homes may sometimes smell of carrion and death. They insert themselves into humanoid communities and earn their neighbors' trust through charm, friendliness, and generosity. They avoid getting physically close to an individual, though, because if one looks directly at their eyes, they will discover that their reflection is upside down. Aswangs tend to prey on members of society that no one will miss if they suddenly disappear. If such targets are unavailable, they travel to another community, settlement, or location that is far from their homes. They won't risk feeding near where they live. Anyone who becomes suspicious of them, or sees them in their fiendish form, is always dealt with immediately for fear of rousing an organized mob. A successful clan of aswangs can live in the outskirts of town, preying on its citizens for years without getting caught. If things start to go awry, the aswangs will not risk staying. They will leave as soon as they can and establish themselves in another community to begin anew. Night Stalkers. Aswangs are careful, patient, and stealthy hunters, often choosing targets that are defenseless or weak. Typically during the day, aswangs pick and mark their target and identify where they live. At night after they transform, they stalk their prey and bide their time until they can attack when their target is most vulnerable. This means most of their assaults happen when their target is alone or asleep. They often just leave the bodies of their victims where they are to avoid the risk of getting caught. Because their kills bear specific types of wounds commonly attributed to ghouls, lycanthropes, or vampires, they aren't worried suspicions about their presence will be brought up. Aswang Weaknesses. Aswangs, much like vampires, have several weaknesses. They find the pungent smell of garlic repulsive, and the chemical properties of pure salt sicken it. While an aswang can resist most blows, weapons made from a stingray's barbed tail, even simple ones, can hurt them normally. Because they become fiends while transformed, they are susceptible to attacks that specifically harm fiends, such as holy water. If an aswang fails its saving throw against a Dispel Evil and Good spell, it reverts to its humanoid form and can't transform for 1 minute. Traits Horrific Appearance (Fiend Form Only). Any humanoid that starts its turn within 30 feet of the manananggal and can see the manananggal must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the manananggal is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the manananggal 's Horrific Appearance for the next 24 hours. Unless the target is surprised or the revelation of the manananggal's Fiend Form is sudden, the target can avert its eyes and avoid making the initial saving throw. Until the start of its next turn, a creature that averts its eyes has disadvantage on attack rolls against the manananggal. Self-Segmentation. When the manananggal transforms into its Fiend Form, its upper body separates from its lower body. Its upper body becomes the active creature, while its lower body becomes incapacitated. While the two bodies are part of the same creature, each is treated as a separate entity, with the upper body having its full hit points and its lower body having 1 hit point per HD and retaining its standard humanoid statistics. Before it can revert to its true form, the manananggal must use its action to graft back with its lower body. If the lower body is destroyed, or its exposed separation point is covered with at least a pound of garlic or salt or a mixture of both, the manananggal can't graft with its lower body. If the manananggal is unable to rejoin its lower body by dawn, it and its lower body take 10 necrotic damage when it starts its turn. Keen Hearing and Smell. The manananggal has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Actions Multiattack. The manananggal makes two attacks: two with its Dagger (humanoid form) or one with its Bite and one with its Claws (fiend form). Bite (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) necrotic damage, and the manananggal regains hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. Claws (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Dagger (Humanoid Form Only). Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Change Shape. The manananggal polymorphs into its Fiend Form or back into its true form, which is humanoid. In Fiend Form, the manananggal appears as a disembodied upper body of a vampire with bat-like wings. Its statistics, other than its Speed, damage, and damage resistances, are the same in each form. It reverts to its true form at dawn or if it dies. The manananggal can only use this action at night. While transformed, the manananggal also gains the following features: The manananggal's creature type changes to fiend. The manananggal has advantage on Strength and Dexterity checks and Strength and Dexterity saving throws. When the manananggal makes a melee weapon attack, it gains a +3 bonus to the damage roll (included in the attack). The manananggal can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. If the manananggal starts its turn within 10 feet of a pound of salt or garlic, it becomes poisoned until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

