# Manticore Companion (PB 3)

**description**: A weary traveler hears a clarion call through the forest or friendly voices from a rocky shelter, and their heart leaps at the promise of refuge—only to find themself at the mercy of serrated teeth and poisoned spikes. In a manticore’s territory, people go missing without a trace. These fearsome creatures carve out their hunting grounds in forests near small villages, mountain passes where caravans travel, and other locations with plentiful wildlife. While manticores can subsist on a carnivorous diet of any nearby prey, their choicest meal is humanoid flesh. Uncanny Appearances. A manticore has a lion’s body, a dragon’s wings, and a scorpion’s tail barbed with spines, but their most unnerving trait is their humanoid face. Owing to a quirk of magical evolution, manticores develop the features of common mortal lineages that populate their region of birth. For example, a manticore in an area densely populated by tieflings inherits fiendish eyes and devilish horns. Manticores are born with an inherent understanding of a regional language, but they can speak only through mimicking that which they’ve heard—a talent manticores use to lure in prey. Heralds of Death. Manticores have a magical howl like a trumpet. This haunting sound not only terrifies creatures, but makes them more susceptible to the manticore’s bite. While on the hunt, manticores often take to the skies, shooting poison-tipped spikes from their tail to weaken their victims before howling and closing in. Ferocious Companions. A manticore who develops a taste for humanoids can rarely be tamed. But a young manticore who has yet to cut their teeth on such flesh can be raised into a fearsome ally. After a trained manticore companion finally tastes delicious humanoid flesh, they typically remain loyal to their caregiver. Traits Learning to Fly. The manticore has a flying speed of 10 × PB feet. Mimicry. The manticore can mimic any words or phrases they have heard in a language the manticore’s caregiver understands. A creature who hears the speech can tell it is an imitation with a successful DC 10 plus PB Wisdom (Insight) check. Actions Signature Attack (Bite). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB piercing damage. 1 st Level: Tail Spike ( 2 Ferocity). The manticore hurls a spine from its tail. This attack uses the statistics for their signature attack, except the spine is a ranged weapon with a normal range of 30 feet and a long range of 60 feet, and on a hit, the attack deals an extra PB of poison damage. 3 rd Level: Trumpeting Howl ( 5 Ferocity). Each enemy within 30 feet of the manticore who can hear them must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of them until the end of the manticore’s next turn. 5 th Level: Poisoned Sting ( 8 Ferocity). The manticore stings a target within 10 feet of them with their tail. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes PBd10 poison damage and becomes dazed until the end of their next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t dazed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

