# Marilith General

**description**: The highest ranking officer of a demon army that only answers to balors, demon lords, and demon princes, the marilith general is a cunning and brilliant strategist. If she finds an opportunity, however, she will wade into melee with her six poison-tipped swords and possibly unleash her Bladestorm feature. The known marilith generals are Marilith, the great demon for whom the race of mariliths was named, Bethshiva, Charsultketh, Kalistes, Mulvassys the Sceptered, Nethess, the servants of Graz'zt Reluhantis and Unhath, Vhissilka, Y'tossi, and Yxunomei. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the marilith fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The marilith has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The marilith's weapon attacks are magical. Reactive. The marilith can take one reaction on every turn in a combat. Actions Multiattack. The marilith makes six Longsword attacks and one Tail attack. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, the marilith can automatically hit the target with its Tail, and the marilith can't make Tail attacks against other targets. Spellcasting. The marilith casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: detect magic 3/day each: fly, polymorph (self only), telekinesis 1/day each: blade barrier, project image Teleport. The marilith magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Bladestorm (Recharge 5–6). The marilith moves up to its walking speed and targets each creature within 5 feet of it during its movement. Each target must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 44 (6d12 + 5) slashing damage plus 21 (6d6) poison damage. The marilith's movement during this action will not provoke opportunity attacks. Legendary Actions The marilith can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The marilith regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Ruthless Command. The marilith targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the marilith, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack with advantage on the attack roll, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of the marilith's next turn. Longsword. The marilith makes a Longsword attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The marilith uses Teleport. Tail Swipe (Costs 3 Actions). Each creature within 10 feet of the marilith must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw, taking 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone on a failed save, or half as much damage and isn't knocked prone on a successful one. The marilith can't use Tail Swipe if it has a creature grappled with its Tail. Reactions Parry. The marilith adds 6 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the marilith must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

