# Marid Padisha

**description**: Found in the heart of the marid seat of power known as the Citadel of Ten Thousand Pearls in the elemental Plane of Water is the Great Padisha of the Marid. He can grant wishes if he likes, but only if he thinks he can twist the wish's intent. Traits Elemental Demise. If the marid dies, its body disintegrates into a burst of water and foam, leaving behind only equipment the marid was wearing or carrying. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the marid fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The marid has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Greater Spell Penetration. When the marid casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The marid makes two Trident attacks. Trident. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d6 + 8) piercing damage, or 21 (3d8 + 8) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack. Water Jet. The marid magically shoots water in a 120-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the target takes 28 (8d6) bludgeoning damage and, if it is Huge or smaller, is pushed up to 30 feet away from the marid and knocked prone. On a success, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage, but is neither pushed nor knocked prone. Spellcasting. The marid casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: create food and water, detect evil and good, detect magic, fog cloud, purify food and drink, tongues, water breathing, water walk 3/day each: conjure elemental (water elemental only, as an action), control water, dispel magic, gaseous form, invisibility, plane shift 1/day each: tsunami (as an action), wall of ice Teleport. The marid magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Grant Wish (3/Year). The marid grants a wish spell to a creature that isn't a genie. In order to work, the marid must be willing to grant the wish . Unless carefully and properly worded, the marid will pervert the wish's intent into a literal but undesirable or partial fulfillment. The marid can't grant a wish purposely to serve its own needs. Legendary Actions The marid can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The marid regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Teleport. The marid uses Teleport. Trident. The marid makes a Trident attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The marid uses Spellcasting. Surging Waves (Costs 3 Actions). The marid magically unleashes a violent wave of water that gushes forth from it in all directions. Each creature within 30 feet of the marid must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw, taking 31 (9d6) bludgeoning damage and if the target is Huge or smaller, is pushed up to 15 feet and knocked prone on a failed save, or half as much damage and isn't pushed and knocked prone on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Elemental
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

