# Marlos Urnrayle

**description**: Marlos Urnrayle is the earth prophet of Elemental Evil and the leader of the Black Earth cult in the Sumber Hills. He is a medusa of unusual power who was once a vain and cruel human nobleman. Marlos delights in petrifying his foes, especially those of great physical beauty, and smashing the remains to rubble. Marlos wields the magical war pick Ironfang , which he found in the Fane of the Eye after being drawn to the spot by a vision. Because of his medusa curse and his possession of the elemental weapon, the other Black Earth cultists believe that he stands high in Ogrémoch’s favor and are fanatically loyal to him. In the Earth Node When the Temple of Black Earth is threatened, Marlos Urnrayle retreats to the Black Geode, the earth node. Within this node, Marlos gains one additional use of his Legendary Resistance trait. Lair Actions If Marlos is in the earth node while Ogrémoch isn’t, the medusa can take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Marlos uses a lair action to cast earthquake without using components. As long as he maintains concentration on earthquake , initiative count 20 is the start of Marlos’s turn for the purpose of the spell. He can take no other lair actions while concentrating on earthquake . Marlos’s second option for a lair action is to draw power from the earth node to heal. When he does so, he regains 30 (6d8 + 3) hit points. Black Earth Cultists Murderers, lunatics, hateful nihilists—these are the sort of people drawn to worship the might of Elemental Evil. The followers of evil elemental earth call themselves the Cult of the Black Earth, and dream of the day when earthquakes reduce the world of mortals to rubble. They seek to recruit evil or destructive monsters that burrow or dwell in the ground, and in fact emulate subterranean creatures to the greatest extent possible, using burrowing magic to carve out their hidden lairs. Black Earth cultists are slow to act, but when they do, they are utterly implacable. They are single-minded and stubborn, working tirelessly to undermine their enemies. They get along well with the Cult of the Crushing Wave, but they hate the Howling Hatred cult— elemental air is fickle and insubstantial compared to the power of elemental earth. Traits Earthen Defeat. When Marlos drops to 0 hit points, his body transforms into mud and collapses into a pool. Anything he is wearing or carrying is left behind. Earth Passage. Marlos can move in difficult terrain composed of anything made from earth or stone as if it were normal terrain. He can move through solid earth and rock as if it were difficult terrain. If he ends his turn there, he is shunted into the nearest space he last occupied. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If Marlos fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Petrifying Gaze. When a creature that can see Marlos’s eyes starts its turn within 30 feet of him, Marlos can force it to make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw if Marlos isn’t incapacitated and can see the creature. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is instantly petrified. Otherwise, a creature that fails the save begins to turn to stone and is restrained. The restrained creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn, becoming petrified on a failure or ending the effect on a success. The petrification lasts until the creature is freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see Marlos until the start of its next turn, when it can decide to avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at Marlos in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. If Marlos sees himself reflected on a polished surface within 30 feet of him and in an area of bright light, Marlos is, due to his curse, affected by his own gaze. Actions Multiattack. Marlos makes three melee attacks, one with his snake hair and two with Ironfang . Snake Hair. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage. Ironfang. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) thunder damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 8 (12 with lair actions)

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

