# Maroena Gullion

**description**: The Chosen of Naraneus Maroena is by far the truest daughter of Maelora; she goes to whatever lengths are necessary to achieve her objectives. The pressure of being the most talented offspring of the Matron Mother weighs heavily on her slender shoulders, and while her divine studies haven’t suffered at all, the condition of her mental state overall is another matter entirely. Born relatively closely to her elder sister, it soon became clear that Maroena had at least as much clerical ability about her as Maelef. In fact her talents quickly outstripped the matron’s firstborn and it became clear that for whatever reason, Naraneus had chosen to bestow her largess on Maroena. It wasn’t the speed at which she learned the divine arts that impressed her tutors, more the finesse and efficiency she displayed with magic. Early in her childhood Maroena received visions from Naraneus. From the moment she could speak, Maroena talked to, and of, an invisible friend who spun a web of protection around her, “like my mother.” No other person ever encountered this friend, yet for a decade the girl insisted space be made for Sulcus, even if she was the only one who knew where the creature was sitting or standing. Many believed Sulcus was entirely in Maroena’s head as the essence of the Spider Goddess channeled her, rather than being a spirit or manifestation. This explanation allowed those who cared for the young drow to make any and all allowances for her seeming eccentricity. Sulcus was, of course, the spirit of Naraneus as the goddess molded the young drow to be the vessel of Her desires. Maroena has become an extension of the goddess, as is her mother, but with each trait exaggerated further. Indeed, if anything happens to Maelora, Naraneus has arranged for all the Matron’s memories and experiences to transfer to Maroena immediately. Maroena is aware of much of this without understanding any of it in any great detail, and now actively pursues more prophetic experiences with reckless abandon. She uses a specialized drug, the mildly venomous “Lucid Mother,” to induce deep hallucinatory trances during which she explores the mind of the goddess herself, although she has no freedom while doing so; Naraneus leads in a meandering fashion through present thoughts and past experiences that keep Maroena on the edge of sanity. But through all of this, the young woman has prevailed, and is one of an exclusively small group that has truly seen what the Spider Goddess has planned for every living creature. Recent reveries reveal a future where she bears triplets, along with the promise that her offspring will lead an epic journey to establish an important city deep in the Underworld. Despite her considerable disdain of the opposite gender, Maroena is trying to conceive. But it isn’t clear who—or what—will be the father, and she gains no pleasure from the process of trying to find out. More than one male drow has ended up as a humiliated failure, sent packing with the knowledge that his standing in the city is forever ruined and that as a “fallen” he has the choice to leave or become a sacrifice to Naraneus. The occasional arrogant devil or cruel demon that demands an opportunity to prove its worth finds the divine energy contained within the Spider Goddess’s chosen powerful enough to regress it back to being an imp or lemure, and then to banish it to lowly insignificance. As it happens, it will take a “marauder able to raze an old city to be the catalyst to produce those destined to raise a new one,” but this is something Maroena’s closest Spider Priestesses are yet to openly acknowledge in both their obsession to fulfill the fate Naraneus has bestowed upon the young drow and fear of what Maelora’s response would be to the news. Nevertheless, drow nobility are ever at the throats of their kin and frantic to grasp more power; Maroena, being no different, is both prepared and eager to assume the mantle of Matron Mother. But she knows that her death will be swift should Maelora detect anything but the most devout subservience from her daughter, so bides her time. Then there is the threat presented by Makinnga, a matter that must be dealt with using the utmost delicacy. Should she ascend to her mother’s station, Maroena’s wits will be tested as surely as her will and patience. Unless, of course, that marauder appears and her destiny comes to fruition and she can take over the city.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

