# Marsh Hydra

**description**: Swamp hags, bog witches, and other mages of the wet places often eschew the stereotypical cat or bird familiar for something more evocative of their environment: snakes. For some, though, a snake—even a magically enhanced one—is too ordinary. These mages seek out ancient grafting spells and use them to create marsh hydras. This enormous monstrosity isn’t a true hydra, but forms when a swarm of snakes is magically conglomerated into a single creature with multiple serpent heads. Cooperation is Key. Freshly created marsh hydras are nearly impossible to command, as the individual snake minds inside their body vie for dominance. Many never make it out of this stage, succumbing to infighting and ultimately proving too chaotic and violent to be useful servants. Such feral marsh hydras account for the majority of those encountered by adventurers. However, those marsh hydras who do learn to work together as a single organism can serve their creators capably. Concealed Heads. Though they sport multiple heads like a common hydra, the marsh hydra functions differently. Instead of regrowing heads as they are destroyed, a marsh hydra’s body contains more heads beyond those initially seen on the outside. Though a marsh hydra rarely displays more than five or six heads at a time, some store as many as two dozen additional heads inside their body, depending on the ambition of their original creator. These internal heads can be rotated out and vice versa, allowing the creature to withstand even the most grievous wounds for a time. Big Ball of Snakes Before there was the marsh hydra, there was the big ball of snakes. When we first started working on the swamp environment, we created a creature that was just an enormous swarm of different snakes all entangled together in one ball, rolling through the swamp looking for a meal. This stat block was simply called the big ball of snakes. We had a lot of laughs about that idea but ultimately decided the big ball of snakes was just too silly for this particular book. The design team still really liked the stat block’s mechanics, so we changed the lore and adjusted some language and, voilà, the marsh hydra was born. Traits Multiple Heads. The marsh hydra has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, dazed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Roll Over. If the marsh hydra moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits them with an Entangling Serpents attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Actions Multiattack. The marsh hydra makes two Entangling Serpents attacks. They can replace one attack with a Many Bites attack. Entangling Serpents. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). Many Bites. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 18 (4d8) poison damage and is poisoned until the end of the marsh hydra’s next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t poisoned. Bonus Actions Serpent Surprise. The marsh hydra activates one of the following effects; if the effect targets another creature, the marsh hydra targets one creature they can see within 30 feet of them: Poison Spit. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 9 (2d8) poison damage and be blinded until the end of the marsh hydra’s next turn. Entrancing Gaze. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the marsh hydra for 1 minute or until the marsh hydra harms the target (save ends at end of turn). Terrifying Rattle. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened by the marsh hydra for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Reinforcements. The marsh hydra shuffles which heads are on the outside of their body and regains 10 (3d6) hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

