# Master Adranach

**description**: An adranach is a winged feline construct made of raw arcane energy, fuchsia in hue and flecked with stars. It is an iconic servitor of the League of Miracles , and the exact method of their creation is a closely guarded secret known only to the Wonderworker who guides that organization and the spellwrights who serve them. Perfect Obedience. As constructs, adranachs are unfailingly loyal servants to the spellwrights who created them. To the people of Tal’Dorei, they are best known as the creatures that allowed cities razed by the Chroma Conclave to be rebuilt in a matter of weeks, rather than years. But adranachs are also mighty combatants that serve their masters as hunters, bodyguards, and even assassins. Astral Body. An adranach’s body is formed from the energy of the Astral Plane. Their claws and face, as well as a number of rune-inscribed braces on their body, are made of mithral and are necessary to keep their form of pure energy from losing cohesion. The methods for creating these mithral foundations and for binding astral energy to them are known only to the Wonderworker (the leader of the League of Miracles) and the spellwrights who learn from them. This secret knowledge is granted to worthy spellwrights in the form of an orb of mithral bands, about three feet in diameter, called a dormen. As the bands are removed and forged into the adranach’s braces and mask, the dormen speaks aloud the instructions of how to craft an adranach in the magically recorded voice of the Wonderworker. Mithral Mask. Each adranach has a unique mask crafted by its creator as their signature. This mask is crafted from pure mithral, and is the key to summoning and dismissing an adranach to a unique pocket dimension where it can rest and repair itself. When not in use, the mask magically shrinks from its true size to an easily concealable size fit for a humanoid face. Most spellwrights keep this mask in a chest stored on the Ethereal Plane with the secret chest spell, and only produce the mask when it is time to call their adranach forth. Master Adranach. The secretive master spellwrights of the League of Miracles are taught how to build adranachs of monumental size, with strength to match. These legendary constructs are also inevitably outfitted with unique enhancements of their creators’ own devising, from upgraded espionage tools to the ability to sublimate their starry form and travel through the Astral Plane. Arcane Nature. An adranach doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Adranach Customization Adranachs are constructs personalized to their creators. One of the traits that make a spellwright candidate attractive to the League of Miracles is an interest in invention, and spellwrights are encouraged to customize any adranach they create. Below are some optional features with which spellwrights have outfitted their creations. Most adranachs have one extra feature, and most master adranachs have three. Advanced Tracking (Recharges after a Long Rest). When a creature fails its saving throw against the adranach’s Force Bolts, the adranach can mark that creature for the next 24 hours. The adranach knows the direction to a creature’s location as long as they are on the same plane. If the creature is moving, the adranach knows the direction of this movement. Arcane Bond. The adranach’s creator can communicate with it telepathically while both are within 1 mile of each other. As an action, the creator can see through the adranach’s eyes and hear what it hears until the start of the creator’s next turn, gaining the benefits of any special senses the adranach has. During this time, the creator is deafened and blinded with regard to their own senses. Astral Form (Master Adranach Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). The master adranach can cast astral projection on itself. Slipstream. The adranach can cast invisibility on itself at will. While it is invisible, its speed is doubled. Truesight (Master Adranach Only). The adranach has truesight out to a range of 30 feet. As an action, it can increase the range of its truesight to 120 feet until the end of its next turn. Traits Arcane Leak. When the adranach is reduced to half its hit point maximum (145 hit points), its mithral mask cracks and its arcane form begins to waver, creating a field of unstable magic around it. Any creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the adranach or enters that area for the first time on a turn takes 21 (6d6) radiant damage. Additionally, if a creature casts a spell within this area, it must make a DC 18 ability check using its spellcasting ability. On a failure, the spell backfires, consuming the spell slot and dealing 7 (2d6) force damage to the caster for each level of the spell slot that was consumed. Immutable Form. The adranach is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The adranach has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The adranach’s weapon attacks are magical. Colossal Build. The adranach’s carrying capacity is doubled, as is the weight it can push, drag, or lift. Slipstream. The adranach can cast invisibility on itself at will. While it is invisible, its speed is doubled. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the adranach fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The adranach makes three attacks: two with its claws and one with its tail. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: (4d12+7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: (2d12+7) bludgeoning damage. Force Bolts (Recharge 5–6). The adranach targets up to six creatures it can see within 120 feet of it. Each target must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 35 (10d6) force damage. Legendary Actions Master Adranach can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Master Adranach regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Claw Attack. The adranach makes one claw attack. Vanish (Costs 2 Actions). The adranach casts invisibility and moves up to its walking or flying speed. (This movement doesn’t benefit from its Slipstream trait.) Starry Burst (Costs 3 Actions). A burst of astral energy flares from the adranach’s body. Each creature within 60 feet of it must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (5d10) force damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and is not blinded. The adranach then turns invisible until the start of its next turn or until it makes an attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: construct
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

