# Master of Demon Mountain

**description**: With a dark beard and fiery eyes, the master of Demon Mountain has long been a figure of terror to those who live within sight of his castle. Some say he is the dark, twisted son of Baba Yaga and an unnamed lord of the Abyss. Demons, certainly, bow and speak politely to him, and the least of them jump to his command. Father of Fiends. The Master of Demon Mountain is a creature of lascivious appetites and the father of dozens of tieflings--and, at the same time, his family is a source of great pride to him. They are the foundation of an empire, and his brood is loyal and as ambitious as their father. They serve him ably in distant corners of the world, where he sends them to forge alliances through marriages or arcane trades. A Bound Legend. He remains a figure of legend as well as a political force. An expert demon binder, his power is terrifying even at a distance. But wielding worldly power and extending his influence is merely an entertaining game for him. His real goal is to reach immortality--although first he must break the pacts binding him to his dark manor. The Master of Demon Mountain in Midgard Hundreds of years ago, the Archmage of Vael Turog escaped the destruction his nation suffered in the Mage Wars and made his way far to the east, where he found a mountain at the site of the conjunction of two powerful ley lines. Located on the southern border of the tsar of Vidim's lands, this mountain was filled with dark and demonic energies and had been considered a blight on the map in the tsar's estimation. The archmage was offered dominion over the mountain if he could tame it and end the threats that issued from it. He summoned and bound a demonic legion, brought the mountain under his control, and staked his claim. The tsar, unaware and uninterested in the details, was delighted, and the archmage became known as the Master of Demon Mountain. He raised a castle there overnight, called Castle Dontrona, and there he has ruled for so long that the people of the surrounding plains have largely forgotten his name. Out of fear or dread of drawing his attention, they refer to him as "the Master" when occasion demands they speak of him at all. Since coming to the mountain, the Master's spells and incantations carry greater potency. The demons praise him, and he has mated with more than a few. The pacts the Master swore to gain power over the mountain and its creatures, however, are not the endless font of power that he had hoped. Indeed, he rarely leaves the mountain, and his children suspect he does not truly command it. Instead, the mountain commands him to bring it reagents and perform certain rituals, as demanded by demonic messengers, dreams, or priests of Chernobog. His lust for power drives him to ally with the Bemmeans, to offer arcana to the Dragon Empire, and to seek the hand of the tsar's comely daughters. His depravity simmers beneath an affected veneer of civility. In distant courts, the Master is known by the name he used in Vael Turog: Roggero Lucar Ordontrona, or sometimes an even older name, Gardever the Archmage of Vael Turog. He claims to be the last living scion of the noble bloodline of Vael Turog. Whether true or an empty boast, he acts the part and then some. Master of Ley Lines The Master of Demon Mountain first conquered the mountain by tapping into its ley line. He has since become a master of ley line magic. If using the Midgard setting, change the Master of Demon Mountain's spells to the following (see the Midgard Heroes Handbook): Cantrips (at will): fire bolt , light , mage hand , message , poison spray 1st level (4 slots): fog cloud , land bond , mage armor , magic missile , shield 2nd level (3 slots): acid arrow , ley disruption , mirror image 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell , ley energy bolt , ley sense , stinking cloud 4th level (3 slots): banishment , ray of life suppression 5th level (3 slots): contact other plane , dominate person , ley leech , seeming 6th level (2 slots): arcane gate , ley whip 7th level (2 slots): mirage arcane , plane shift 8th level (1 slot): disruptive aura , dominate monster 9th level (1 slot): ley storm , ley surge

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (tiefling)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

