# Mastiff of Tindalos

**description**: The hounds of Tindalos are the least of their kind, with a wide range of more powerful variants reported in ancient texts. The six-legged mastiff of Tindalos has a strange position among its kind in that they are traditionally the traveling companions of powerful envoys from Leng rather than stalkers throughout time itself. With their bulging eyes, tongues that melt into wisps of black smoke, and lipless fanged jaws, no hound of Tindalos could be mistaken for long for anything other than a monster. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The mastiff of Tindalos’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: find the path, invisibility (self only) 1/day: haste, slow Magic Resistance. The mastiff of Tindalos has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The mastiff of Tindalos’s weapon attacks are magical. Otherworldly Mind. Whenever a creature targets the mastiff with a mental effect or attack (psychic damage, mind reading, charm, enchantments or similar attacks) that creature takes 28 (8d6) psychic damage on a failed DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, or half damage on success. If the creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it also becomes confused for 1 minute as the confusion spell. Ripping Gaze. The mastiff of Tindalos’s eyes glow balefully, causing painful but bloodless wounds to tear open upon the body of a creature that meets its awful gaze. When a creature that can see the mastiff’s eyes starts its turn within 30 feet of the mastiff, the mastiff can force the creature to make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw if the mastiff isn’t incapacitated and can see the creature. The creature takes 28 (8d6) slashing damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that succeeds on its saving throw by 5 or more is immune to this mastiff’s gaze for 24 hours. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see the mastiff until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at the mastiff in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. The mastiff is immune to its own the gaze and the gaze of other hounds of Tindalos. Vulnerable to Curved Space. When a mastiff of Tindalos is not adjacent to a structural angle of 90º or smaller, its resistance to physical damage is suppressed and it gains the poisoned condition. It can’t recover from this condition, but the condition ends once the mastiff is again adjacent to a suitable angle. Actions Multiattack. The mastiff can use angled entry and then makes three attacks: one with its jaws and two with its claws. Jaws. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d10+6) piercing damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (4d8+6) slashing damage. Angled Entry. The mastiff of Tindalos teleports up to 120 feet to an angle of 90º (or more acute) it can see. Once per day, the mastiff can use this ability to plane shift to or from the Dimension of Time, with the same restrictions on what angles it can appear next to. Dimensional Anchor (1/Day). The mastiff of Tindalos targets a creature it can see within 120 feet of it The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be tied firmly to the plane it is currently in. Teleportation of any sort is impossible for the creature for 10 minutes. This effect is ended by dispel magic or similar magic. Dimensional anchor does not prevent summoned creatures from disappearing after the duration of the spell that summoned them.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

