# Master Geomancer

**description**: Geomancers are powerful practitioners of magic who specialize in harnessing the power of the earth and its energies. They use gravity to reshape terrain, create walls, projectiles, and other structures. One with the Earth. Geomancers tend to be introspective and meditative due to their commitment to attuning with the earth. To increase their sensitivity, they often keep a part of their body in contact with the ground, allowing them to perceive vibrations caused by objects impacting the surface of the earth, such as footsteps. Defense and Destruction. While geomancers are often sought after for their defensive uses, such as fortifying a section of land, they are also incredibly devastating magic-users. They can cause the ground to ripple like a wave, generate earthquakes, summon dangerous earth elementals, and even reverse an area's gravity. A Master Geomancer's Lair A master geomancer lives in great citadels made entirely from stone and rock. These can be located high atop tall mountains or in deep crevasses. A master geomancer encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 15 (13,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the geomancer can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the geomancer can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The geomancer casts spike growth (spell save DC 18, no components required) at 3 different points within its lair. The geomancer doesn't need to see the points and doesn't need to maintain concentration of the spell. The effect lasts for 1 minute, until the geomancer uses this lair action again, or until the geomancer dies or is incapacitated. The geomancer magically conjures a stone wall on unoccupied sections of the ground within 120 feet of it. The wall is 3 inches thick and is composed of five 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with at least one panel. The wall is an object made of stone that can be damaged and thus breached. Each panel has AC 15, 30 hit points, vulnerability to thunder damage, resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from attacks that aren't adamantine, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Reducing a panel to 0 hit points destroys it. The wall lasts for 1 minute, until the geomancer uses this lair action again, or until the geomancer dies or is incapacitated. The geomancer targets up to three Large or smaller creatures on the ground within 60 feet of it. The ground beneath each target animates and forms into giant stone grasping hand. Each target must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw or take 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage and be restrained by the giant hand. Each hand lasts for 1 minute, until the geomancer uses this lair action again, or until the geomancer dies or is incapacitated. While restrained in this way, a creature takes 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage at the end of each of its turns. As an action, a creature can make a DC 18 Strength check to free the restrained creature. The stone hand can also be destroyed to end the effect. Each stone hand has AC 13, 30 hit points, vulnerability to thunder damage, resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from attacks that aren't adamantine, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the geomancer fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The geomancer uses Rock Strike four times. Rock Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Rippling Earth (Recharges 5–6). The geomancer magically causes the earth to suddenly move in a violent, cascading motion in a 30-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature standing on the ground in that line must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 39 (6d12) bludgeoning damage, is pushed up to 10 feet, and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain until cleared. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand. Avalanche (1/Day) . The geomancer conjures rocks and boulders and launches them toward a chosen point within 120 feet of it. Each creature in a 30-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on that point must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 44 (8d10) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and restrained. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 18 Strength check. On a success, the creature is no longer restrained. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone or restrained. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain until cleared. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand. Spellcasting. The geomancer casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks): At will: acid splash (4d6), mage hand, mending 2/day each: mage armor, meld into stone, spike growth, stoneskin, thunderwave, wall of stone 1/day each: conjure elemental (earth), earthquake, move earth, reverse gravity Bonus Actions Earth Skate . While the geomancer is standing on the ground, the geomancer magically manipulates the earth to ripple and carry the geomancer a short distance. The geomancer moves up to 15 feet without provoking opportunity attacks. Reactions Stone Shield (5/Day). When the geomancer or a creature within 30 feet of it is hit by an attack roll, the geomancer gives the target a +5 bonus to its AC, which can cause the triggering attack roll to miss, and resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks until the start of the geomancer’s next turn. Legendary Actions The geomancer can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The geomancer regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Rock Strike. The geomancer uses Rock Strike. Stone Barrier. The geomancer conjures magical, levitating stones that spin around the geomancer and deflects attacks. The geomancer gains 16 (3d10) temporary hit points. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The geomancer uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

