# Mathorn Gullion

**description**: The Gatherer of Secrets Mathorn was a rarity among the drow: a happy child, relatively untouched by the hatred and political jockeying of the dark elves. Indeed, she invariable took herself away from disagreements, and always ignored the spiteful gossip about allies and enemies alike that made for conversation amongst the children of House Gullion. But she always managed to do this in such a way that she didn’t gain any kind of reputation of aloofness or disdain for her siblings, rather she was considered someone firmly set on enhancing the family over own ambition. As a potential heir to the title of Matron, she was given everything she could want. The Matriarch and Mathorn’s tutors tried to groom her into a Priestess of the Spider Goddess, but Mathorn did not feel the calling she was supposed to. Instead, she studied the ways of combat with her brother Gal. She took to the teachings well, but some of her divine tutor’s lessons had sunk in; rather than standing face-to-face with her enemies, she learned how to use her natural abilities to strike from hiding, with shadows seeming to bend to her will and supposedly becoming a literal cloak. Much of this was superstitious talk, but more than one ally swore it to be true. Mathorn took their words to heart and used the idea as her focus for the future. Her teachers reveled in the opportunity to explore the subject further, and a cadre of shadow users was formed. During an expedition to the surface world, while she was still young and under instruction, Mathorn’s party was attacked by a group of adventurers. Her favorite tutor, Mol, threw herself in front of the girl as a human warrior bore down on the child. At the last moment, the swordsman turned to attack Mol, even though she didn’t defend herself, and split the woman from shoulder to hip, getting his blade jammed in her body. He was fallen on by other members of the drow party, which allowed Mathorn to escape. The young drow was devastated—no tutor after that was good enough simply because they were not Mol. She sank into an outward depression but raged inside, swearing vengeance on the whole human race from that moment on. Mathorn continued her instruction, but for a great deal of the time she was little more than a pale shadow of herself. Maelora was patient with her, as Naraneus instructed her to be, and her daughter finally regained the desire to follow her chosen path. As she grew older, she felt the call of the Spider Goddess grow stronger, but not in the way a priestess should. She continued to heed the path of shadows and embraced their cold darkness, learning to harness them and make herself even more deadly. She found that not only was she good at killing, she enjoyed it, especially when humans were concerned. Through all this her memory for Mol burned fiercely, and on a daily basis she openly told Naraneus how she wished the tutor was with her still. It was only when she wrapped herself in the gloom that she realized Mol had been returned to her as a shadow. Despite the shock, and unthinking of the possible consequences, Mathorn embraced the shade with as much love as any child could show to a parent. Since then, Mol has never left her pupil’s side, night or day, and continues to protect her as if her unlife depended on it. The Matron noticed her daughter’s reenergization, and focused the abilities and skills the young drow had built up to mold Mathorn into a spy for the family. Maelora employs her to gather information on rival houses (which she is very good at) but didn’t count on her daughter using those same skills to gather secrets about her own family members, including her mother. Mathorn now has a vast array of information at her disposal to ensure none of her siblings ever betray her for some blown-out-of-proportion minor indiscretion; the threat of 10-fold retaliatory bribery is a fine tool to have to hand. Mathorn now spends her days mostly by herself, keeping tabs on the various major houses of Holoth and specific individuals as requested by her mother. She is usually found atop one of the spires of the palace maintaining watch, keeping both her wits and her blades sharp while Mol rests nearby. Alternatively she is found in or near one or other of her siblings’ rooms, surreptitiously finding out what they’ve been up to.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

