# Maul Juggernaut

**description**: The maul brute is a hulking and savage warrior who wields a massive maul. It rarely wears any armor, opting to fight bare-chested to show its horrifying scarred skin and make itself more mobile. When the maul brute approaches, the heavy thumps its iron boots make can be heard. During combat, the maul brute charges recklessly toward its foes with no concern about getting hit. It believes it can finish its foes quickly before they can deal any real injury to it. The maul brute can crush the skulls of its enemies with a single strike of its weapon and batter their armor and shields, rendering them useless. A maul brute is often encountered as a bodyguard, a guardian, a gladiator champion, or a warden of a dungeon. Traits Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the maul juggernaut hits with it (included in the attack). Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the maul juggernaut fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Overpowering Charge. If the maul juggernaut moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Maul attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be pushed horizontally up to 5 feet away and knocked prone. If the target's saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is also stunned until the end of its next turn. Reckless. At the start of its turn, the maul juggernaut can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Unarmored Defense. While the maul juggernaut is wearing no armor, its AC includes its Constitution modifier. Actions Multiattack. The maul juggernaut makes two melee attacks. Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and the target has disadvantage on the next weapon attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn. Sunder. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and if the target is wearing a nonmagical armor or shield, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or the Armor Class (AC) of the nonmagical armor or shield (determined randomly) of the target takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty. Armor reduced to an AC of 10 or a shield that drops to a +0 bonus is destroyed. Staggering Blow (Recharge 5–6). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 26 (6d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, can’t take reactions, and its speed is reduced to 10 feet for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effects on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The maul juggernaut can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The maul juggernaut regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The maul juggernaut moves up to its speed. Intimidate Foe. The maul juggernaut targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the maul juggernaut, it must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the maul juggernaut until the end of the maul juggernaut's next turn. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The maul juggernaut makes a Maul or Sunder attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Chaotic Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

