# Maur (Hunched Giant)

**description**: Maurs, also known as hunched giants, are rumored to be the devolved cousins of Storm Giants that have been trapped millions of years ago deep in the Underdark. The harsh, cramped, and tight spaces of subterranean life has transformed them into hunched, stoop-shouldered caricatures of their former greatness and their skin and hair pasty white. Unless there is actual space to stand up, these 15-foot tall giants are always hunched over and scraping their knuckles on the floor. Unfurled Might. Maurs are armed with stone-mail and stone weapons, and they decorate their skin by scarring glyphs onto it. They typically set up ambush by melding into stone, wait for their intended targets to pass by them, before launching an assault with their stone warhammer. If faced with difficult foes and there is a large enough space in the area, they can unfurl, stretch, and stand in a process that can be seen as intensely painful. Once fully upright, the Maurs are better able to leverage their strength and spell capabilities to their maximum potential. Due to their evolved physiology however, they are unable to maintain an upright position for a long period of time and must return to their hunched form as soon as they can. Symbiotic Giants. Maurs are only encountered in the Underdark, and unless forced, never leave it. They are very rarely encountered in large groups, and, due to the challenges they have with their size, they work and create symbiotic relationships with smaller intelligent races such as duergar, grimlocks, svirfneblin, and troglodytes to serve as guards in exchange for food and treasure. Traits Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the maur hits with it (included in the attack). Actions Multiattack. The maur makes two Warhammer attacks. Warhammer. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage, or 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage while unfurled. Unfurled Might (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute, the maur increases in size, along with anything it is wearing or carrying. While unfurled, the maur is Huge, deals one extra die of weapon damage on Strength-based weapon attacks (included in the attacks), makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage, and gains the ability to cast call lightning and chain lighting once per day. If the maur lacks the room to become Huge, it attains the maximum size possible in the space available. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (3d10 +7) bludgeoning damage, or 29 (4d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage while unfurled. Tunnel Scream (Recharge 5–6). The maur magically emits a deafening scream in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) thunder damage, is deafened for 1 minute, and stunned until the end of the maur's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened or stunned. Spellcasting. The maur casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): 2/day each: meld into stone, move earth, spider climb 1/day each (while unfurled only): call lightning, chain lightning

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

