# Maurezhi Lord

**description**: When a maurezhi exhibits intellect and cunning beyond what is normal for its kind and is always successful in spreading the ghoul plague, it may gain the attention of its master, Doresain. The King of Ghouls rewards the maurezhi by bestowing upon it part of its essence, which transforms the demon into a maurezhi lord. Giant Ghoul. The rapacious maurezhi lord resembles a normal maurezhi but is nearly twice as large, standing 10 feet tall. The ghoulish demon has an oversized mouth and disproportionately large hands and feet, each ending in iron talon-like claws. Ghastly Shrieker. Aside from having all the abilities of its normal kind, the maurezhi lord can also summon and command ghouls and ghasts. In combat, it can unleash a horrific shriek that can chill the blood of its foes, paralyzing them. Lord of the Ghouls. Maurezhi lords are rare and are mostly encountered in Thanathos, the 113th layer of the Abyss, leading packs of maurezhis, ghouls, and undead. A few can be found in the Material Plane, ruling over hordes of undead. Traits Assume Form. The maurezhi lord can assume the appearance of any Medium humanoid it has eaten, but will appear in Large size. It remains in this form for 1d6 days, during which time the form gradually decays until, when the effect ends, the form sloughs from the demon’s body. Magic Resistance. The maurezhi lord has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The maurezhi lord makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d10 + 4) piercing damage. If the target is a humanoid, its Charisma score is reduced by 1d4. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. The target dies if this reduces its Charisma to 0. It rises 24 hours later as a ghoul, unless it has been revived or its corpse has been destroyed. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature other than an undead, it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Raise Ghoul (Recharge 5–6). The maurezhi lord targets one dead ghoul or ghast it can see within 30 feet of it. The target is revived with all its hit points. Summon Ghoul (1/Day). The maurezhi lord summons 2d4 ghouls, 1d4 ghasts, or 1d4 ghouls and 1d2 ghasts. A summoned ghoul appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the maurezhi lord and acts as an ally of the maurezhi lord. It remains for an hour, until it or the maurezhi lord dies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action. Bonus Actions Command Ghoul. The maurezhi lord targets a ghoul or ghast it can see within 60 feet of it. If the target can hear the maurezhi lord, the target must use its reaction to move up to its speed or make one melee weapon attack. Legendary Actions The maurezhi lord gains 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The maurezhi lord regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The maurezhi lord makes one Claw attack. Ghastly Shriek (Costs 2 Actions). The maurezhi lord emits a horrifying shriek. Each creature that is neither a fiend nor an undead within 60 feet of the maurezhi lord must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. If a creature fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it is also paralyzed while frightened in this way. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to maurezhi lord's Ghastly Shriek for the next 24 hours. Mauling Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The maurezhi lord moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks, and it can make one Claw attack against each creature it moves past.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

