# Mavawhan

**description**: A winged demon with a body seemingly carved from blood-stained ice, the mavawhan is native to the Iron Wastes, the frozen 23rd layer of the Abyss. The mavawhan has a lean, muscular body, with an icy blue sheet of skin that is etched with jagged black runes. Its bestial legs and long, mantis-like arms end in sharp claws, while its long tail ends in six icicle-shaped blades. Growing out of its back is a pair of partially transparent bat wings with its edges lined with razor-sharp icicles. The mavawhan's noseless, skull-like head features a mouth full of jagged teeth and four vertically-aligned serpentine-like eyes. On each side of its face are two downwards-facing ice horns that extend past its chin toward its chest. Numb Tormentor. The mavawhan is a formidable fighter and spellcaster that can wreak havoc on large groups of foes with its array of cold-based abilities. It enjoys stalking and torturing its prey before turning it into ice with its deadly stinger venom, often leaving the head to freeze last so that its victim can experience the torturous process in its entirety. Bitter Slaves. The mavawhans have long dwelt in the Iron Wastes in great numbers. Their numbers have dwindled since Kostchtchie, the Prince of Wrath, and his army of frost giants, conquered the Iron Wastes and made it his domain. The demon lord slaughtered most of the mavawhans and enslaved those that remained. Recently, however, Kostchtchie was defeated by the archdevil Zariel and was imprisoned in Avernus. Because of this, the mavawhans broke free of the demon lord's control and escaped from the remaining frost giants. Since then, the mavawhans have broken into tribes and taken control of the Iron Wastes' other regions the frost giants don't control. Cold Mercenaries. When not fighting amongst themselves or against the frost giants, the mavawhans work as mercenary spies and scouts for other powerful demons, using their knowledge of the Iron Wastes to their advantage. Due to their frost magic, penchant for cruelty, and talents of torture, they have become popular to cultists and followers of Auril, Loviatar, Thrym, and Olhydra, who often summon them to the Material Plane to do their bidding. Traits Aura of Debilitating Cold. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the mavawhan takes 3 (1d6) cold damage and has disadvantage to saving throws against cold damage until the start of its next turn. Ice Walk. The mavawhan can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain composed of ice or snow doesn’t cost it extra moment. Magic Resistance. The mavawhan has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The mavawhan makes three attacks: two with its Claw and one with its Gore attack or Stinger. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) cold damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) cold damage. Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) cold damage and have its Dexterity reduced by 1d6. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. If a target's Dexterity is reduced to 0, the creature becomes petrified and its whole body transforms into frozen ice until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and doesn't have its Dexterity reduced. Spellcasting. The mavawhan casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: fog cloud, frostbite (3d6) 2/day: ice storm 1/day each: cone of cold, wall of ice Teleport. The mavawhan magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Fan of Ice Blades (Recharge 5-6). The mavawhan whirls its wings around, unleashing icy spikes that strike targets around it. Each creature within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (3d6) piercing damage and 10 (3d6) cold damage and can't use reactions until the end of its next turn. On a successful saving throw, a creature takes half as much damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

