# Mecharmadillo

**description**: “Ze mecharmadillo represents ein exciting next step in ze teknological enhancement of humanoids. As I vas tellink L’Arsène… Vait. Vere’s L’Arsène? Dillo! Bad boy! Let him out! Out, I say!" — Humperdink, Transhumanism Enthusiast Type: Construct Creature Component: Any CREO or Unit M3T4L Bonus Tamer Improvement: Resize I and +2 Hit Dice Mecharmadillos are incredibly adaptable constructs, modelled to thrive in a variety of different environments. They are geared towards symbiotic coexistence, and perpetuate their own survival by offering their aid to larger and stronger creatures in exchange for protection. Over time, a mecharmadillo’s internal code evolves, often causing it to develop new adaptations specifically suited to better assist the creature it bonded with. If any of the mecharmadillo’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the mecharmadillo’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the mecharmadillo’s Strength modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the mecharmadillo the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Resize I Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The mecharmadillo’s Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice) and the damage die of its Headbutt attack increases to a d6 . As an action, the mecharmadillo can increase or decrease its size by one category at a time. The mecharmadillo can’t become Medium or larger, or smaller than its original Tiny size. Its hit point maximum and the damage of its attacks don’t change from using this action. Holograms I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action) While the mecharmadillo’s size is Tiny, it can be worn as a helmet by its tamer. In this state, it can cast the disguise self spell, targeting its tamer instead of itself, and can take no other actions, except to detach itself from its tamer, which ends the spell. The mecharmadillo is covered by the illusion as well, appearing as its choice of headwear. After the mecharmadillo casts this spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Roll Out I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the mecharmadillo curls up into a ball until the end of its turn. In this state, it can move through other creatures’ spaces. When the mecharmadillo moves into a creature’s space in this way, the creature must make a Strength saving throw . On a failed save, it takes 3 ( 1d6 ) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone . On a successful one, it takes half as much damage and is moved to an unoccupied space of its choice adjacent to the mecharmadillo. A creature can only be affected by this feature once per turn. Creatures more than two sizes larger than the mecharmadillo automatically succeed on this saving throw. After the mecharmadillo uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the mecharmadillo’s tamer reaches 5th level in the tamer class, this action’s damage increases to 10 ( 3d6 ). Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) The mecharmadillo gains two new action options: Tail and Multiattack. The damage die of the Tail attack increases with the specified die size in the mecharmadillo’s Resize improvements. Multiattack. As an action, the mecharmadillo makes one Headbutt attack and one Tail attack. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: Str modifier + PB to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 + Str modifier bludgeoning damage. Resize II Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer, Resize I Type: Active (bonus action), Passive (companion) The mecharmadillo’s Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice) and the damage dice of its attacks increase to a d8 . The mecharmadillo can change sizes as a bonus action instead of an action, and it can increase up to Medium size. Reservoir Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action) The mecharmadillo gains five receptacles in its body, each of which can be filled with one dose of a liquid (such as acid, holy water, or a potion) as an action by a creature within reach of the mecharmadillo, if the mecharmadillo is willing. As a bonus action, the mecharmadillo can feed one of these liquids to a willing creature, or make a ranged weapon attack with a range of 20 feet as it sprays the liquid out of its nose. It is proficient with this attack and uses its Strength modifier for the attack roll. On a hit, the creature suffers the effects of the liquid, if there are any. Holograms II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Holograms I Type: Active (action) The mecharmadillo can cast the hallucinatory terrain and silent image spells. After it has cast one of these spells, it can’t cast that spell again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Roll Out II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Roll Out I Type: Passive (companion) The damage of the mecharmadillo’s Roll Out action increases to 17 ( 5d6 ), and creatures smaller than the mecharmadillo have disadvantage on the saving throw against it. The mecharmadillo can stop its movement in the space of a creature smaller than it that failed its saving throw against this action. If it does so, the creature is restrained until the mecharmadillo moves out of its space or until the creature uses its action to make a successful Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check (its choice) against the mecharmadillo’s save DC . When the mecharmadillo’s tamer reaches 13th level in the tamer class, this action’s damage increases to 24 ( 7d6 ). Resize III Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Resize II Type: Passive (companion) The mecharmadillo’s Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice) and the damage dice of its attacks increase to a d10 . When the mecharmadillo changes size, it can increase or decrease by up to two size categories at a time, and it can increase up to Large size. Exoskeleton Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Active (action) While the mecharmadillo is the same size category as its tamer and within 5 feet of it, the mecharmadillo can use an action to alter its form and wrap itself around the tamer, serving as an exoskeleton suit. In this form, the mecharmadillo acts as a set of plate armour that its tamer is proficient with. This armour doesn’t provide disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks and has no Strength requirement. The mecharmadillo is still a creature and can take actions on its turn as normal, but can’t make Headbutt attacks, change its size, or use its Roll Out action. Its speed is reduced to 0 feet and it moves with its tamer. A creature can decide whether to target the mecharmadillo or its tamer with attacks and other effects. While wearing the mecharmadillo as armour, the tamer’s Strength score is equal to the mecharmadillo’s, it gains the mecharmadillo’s Project Shield reaction, affecting itself instead, and its walking speed is increased by 10 feet . As an action, the mecharmadillo can detach itself from the tamer, moving to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of it. Living Tank Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Resize III Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) While the mecharmadillo is Large and isn’t wearing armour, its AC is 20 . In addition, if it's not using its Exoskeleton feature, it can use an action to try to scoop up a Medium or smaller creature within 5 feet of it into a compartment inside it. If the creature is unwilling, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw to avoid this. The mecharmadillo can only have one creature inside of it at a time. While inside the mecharmadillo, a creature has advantage on attack rolls against it and total cover from effects originating outside it. As an action, the creature can make a Strength check against the mecharmadillo’s save DC . On a success, it frees itself, exiting into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the mecharmadillo. A creature can also exit using 5 feet of its movement if the mecharmadillo is willing. If the mecharmadillo drops to 0 hit points or is no longer Large or larger, a creature inside it is ejected, landing prone in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 28918
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

