# Mechakobold

**description**: This little friend is sehr helpful. Sometimes too helpful. Von time, vhen I vas harvestink ein red dragon’s breath sak, I asked for a scalpel und it dropped it. Point down. Into ze sak. My hair’s only just grown back. — Humperdink, Recently Singed Type : Construct Creature Component : Koboldzilla Bonus Tamer Improvement : Pack Tactics and +2 Hit Dice From the crude blood-oil of the mecha koboldzilla can be harnessed the progenitor genetic code of the modern kobold. A combination of flesh and metal, the mechakobold retains much of the modern kobold’s ingenuity and penchant for mischief. Mechakobolds’ belief powers their magical inventions; the force of their personality directly augments their creations. Expect homemade explosions, picked pockets, and the pressing of any big, red buttons. If any of the mechakobold’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the mechakobold’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the mechakobold’s Charisma modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the mechakobold the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Pack Tactics Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Passive (companion) The mechakobold has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the mechakobold’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated. The mechakobold gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Puppy Dragon Eyes Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the mechakobold can stare endearingly at one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the creature can see it, the creature must make a Wisdom saving throw . On a failed save, the creature is charmed by the mechakobold for 1 minute . This effect ends early if the mechakobold harms the creature. If the creature observes the mechakobold acting contrary to the creature’s goals, the creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. After the mechakobold uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Dynoboom I Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the mechakobold can throw a homemade explosive device at a point it can see within 60 feet of it, where it explodes. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centred on that point must make a Dexterity saving throw , taking 17 ( 5d6 ) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After the mechakobold uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest, during which it crafts a new explosive device using bits, bobs, and pure belief. When the mechakobold’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 24 ( 7d6 ). Growth Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The mechakobold’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its slingshot attack increases to a d8 . Multiattack Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the mechakobold can make two slingshot attacks. Prehensile Tail Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion), Active (bonus action) The mechakobold gains proficiency with thieves’ tools. In addition, it can use its bonus action to make a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check (for example, to pickpocket a creature), to use a set of thieves’ tools to disarm a trap or open a lock, or to take the Use an Object action. Nimble Escape Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Active (bonus action) The mechakobold can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action on each of its turns. Dynoboom II Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Dynoboom I Type : Active (action) The damage of the mechakobold’s Dynoboom action increases to 31 ( 9d6 ), and the size of the explosion increases to a 20-foot-radius sphere . The mechakobold gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the mechakobold’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 42 ( 12d6 ). Uncanny Dodge Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Nimble Escape Type : Active (reaction) When an attacker that the mechakobold can see hits it with an attack, the mechakobold can use its reaction to halve the attack’s damage against it. Proto-Attunement Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The mechakobold can attune to one magic item, gaining the magic item’s benefits. If the mechakobold is wearing or holding this item when it is recalled, the item is recalled with it into the vessel. When it attunes to this item, it becomes bonded to it; however this item doesn’t count towards the number of items a companion can be bonded to (see Item Bonding.)

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: construct
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

