# Medusa Headstrong (PB 2)

**description**: Hunted as monsters with no thought given to their nature or origin, few creatures are as underestimated and misunderstood as medusas. Many people fear medusas for their monstrous appearance and ability to turn others to stone, but few realize the truth. Each of these monstrosities was once a humanoid, cursed and transformed for defying a god—but while some medusas embrace wickedness, others simply fight for their lives against ignorant hunters. Cursed for Defiance. When a powerful mortal defies a god for good or for ill, the deity may curse them to live as a medusa. The offender’s skin and eyes become reptilian, and a nest of black venomous snakes replaces their hair. When the medusa wishes, beams from their eyes can slowly petrify others to stone. The gods who use this punishment spread terrifying myths about medusas, causing mortals to attack and shun them. This often drives medusas into solitude—or to places haunted by creatures who don’t judge them based on mere appearance and horror stories. Warriors for Good or Ill. Though they might be secluded, medusas rarely stay idle. Many plot ways to break their curse, searching for lost healing rituals or secrets to use against the gods who cursed them. Others embrace their new gifts, building stone gardens of victims who foolishly hunted or harmed them. Serpentine Reflexes. While the medusa’s stone gaze is legendary, they also can move and strike as swiftly as a snake. This enhanced dexterity makes them incredible archers, and most prefer to fight at range. Lifting the Curse. The deity who inflicted a medusa’s curse can rarely be convinced to lift the punishment, usually by undertaking an impossible task in the god’s name or making a threat they can’t ignore. Some sages claim ancient rituals can undo a god’s curse, but these lost secrets are hidden by wrathful divine servants—and performing such a ritual would almost certainly entail great sacrifice. Traits Signature Attack (Snake Bite). Melee Weapon Attack : +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d10 plus PB piercing damage. Beginning at 7th level, the headstrong can make this attack twice, instead of once, when they take the Attack action on their turn. Features 3 rd Level: Snake Spit ( 3 /Day). As a bonus action, the headstrong spits venom at the eyes of a creature within 5 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw or be blinded until the end of their next turn. 5 th Level: Venomous Bite ( 3 /Day). When the headstrong hits a creature with a signature attack, the headstrong injects the target with venom. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes PBd6 poison damage and is poisoned until the start of the headstrong’s next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t poisoned. 7 th Level: Stone Gaze ( 3 /Day). As an action, the headstrong fires energy beams from their eyes at a creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Constitution saving throw or begin to turn to stone and be restrained. A target restrained in this way must repeat the saving throw at the end of their next turn. On a successful save, the effect ends. On a failed save, the creature is petrified for 1 hour or until they are restored by a cure ailment power of 4th order or higher, a greater restoration spell, or a similar supernatural effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Retainer

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

