# Melancholic Ooze Swarm

**description**: Formed from accumulations of runoff from arcane laboratories and regions of magical calamity, alchemical oozes are fist-sized blobs of volatile chemicals. Although composed of unpredictable compounds and toxins, these mobile oozes pose little threat individually, but in polluted quagmires and tainted sewers can collect in numbers great enough to threaten creatures many times their size. Swarms of the slimes linger in such contaminated areas and seek new accretions of vital solutions, like those found within the bodies of higher life forms, to fuel their erratic life cycles. Found in numerous varieties with a host of differing abilities, these weird, clinging oozes have been differentiated by likening them to the humors said to compose the bodies of living beings. Hungry Fluids. Appearing at first to be a collection of tiny blobs of viscous, translucent fluid, alchemical oozes become far more terrifying once their hungry nature becomes apparent. Each swarm is composed of several hundred palm-sized balls of ooze that all scuttle along as a single unit. Different types of alchemical oozes have various unique abilities, though they otherwise share the same statistics below. Choleric Ooze Swarm. Choleric oozes are composed of caustic chemicals, and living creatures failing their save against the swarm’s paralyzing slime takes 5 (2d4) acid damage instead of being paralyzed. Wooden or metal objects in contact with the swarm for 1 round take 8 (3d4) acid damage. A choleric ooze swarm has damage resistance to acid and damage vulnerability to lightning, and any amount of lightning damage ends the swarm’s viscous ability. Phlegmatic Ooze Swarm . Phlegmatic oozes are composed of volatile mind-altering compounds, and living creatures failing their save against the swarm’s paralyzing slime are stunned instead of being paralyzed. A phlegmatic ooze swarm has damage resistance to cold (instead of acid) and damage vulnerability to fire (instead of acid), and any amount of fire (rather than lightning) damage ends the swarm’s viscous ability. Sanguine Ooze Swarm . Sanguine oozes are composed of euphoric hallucinogens, and living creatures failing their save against the swarm’s paralyzing slime are charmed and blinded instead of being paralyzed. A phlegmatic ooze swarm has damage resistance to fire (instead of acid) and damage vulnerability to cold (instead of acid), and any amount of cold (rather than lightning) damage ends the swarm’s viscous ability. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatDescription, li.StatDescription, div.StatDescription {mso-style-name:"Stat Description"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: swarm of Tiny oozes
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

