# Meld

**description**: A meld is formed from the faded souls of mortals—husks whose memories have been consumed by Dolurrh. These husks are typically harmless, but sometimes an aggressive nucleus gathers other husks, forming a deadly gestalt. In essence, a meld is a fusion of half-formed ghosts; it has an amorphous shape, with vague faces and limbs projecting from the mass, then being consumed once more. It makes no sound when it moves, but mortals around a meld hear cries of pain, pleading voices, and unearthly moans. Its Conflicted Soul action reflects it projecting some of its husks into a mortal body, temporarily overwhelming the victim with conflicting desires and visions. Denizens of Dolurrh. Melds are born in Dolurrh, and prowl the endless caverns searching for scraps of memory. This hunger can draw them to Eberron through manifest zones or when planes are coterminous. A meld can also manifest when someone is raised from the dead, following in the wake of the soul being drawn back to the world of the living. Melds that enter Eberron rarely stray more than one mile from the point where they arrived. Hunger for Memory. A meld has the barest traces of dozens of souls. It remembers scraps of the most powerful moments of its component husks, but it can’t place these in any context. The meld yearns to consume other spirits, to feast on their memories and emotions. While highly unusual, it’s possible for a powerful personality within a meld to exert temporary control; this might cause the meld to pursue a particular individual or draw it to a specific location. When a meld kills a living creature and consumes its spirit, the flood of memories can also shift the purpose of the meld, as it suddenly acts on the desires of its most recent victim. A meld loose in Eberron retains the spirits it consumes, preventing them from transitioning to Dolurrh. This prevents the spirit from fading; a character could hear the whispers of a trapped spirit within a meld, and a husk could hold the souls of people who died long ago. A side effect of this is that creatures slain by a meld cannot be resurrected or raised from the dead until the meld is destroyed. Undead Nature. A meld doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Ethereal Sight. The meld can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa. Incorporeal Form. The meld ignores nonmagical difficult terrain, and can walk on liquid surfaces without breaking through, as though the water walk spell was cast on it. Incorporeal Movement. The meld can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Actions Multiattack. The meld makes four attacks. Alternatively, it makes two attacks and uses its Conflicted Soul ability Withering Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) necrotic damage. Conflicted Soul. The meld causes one creature of its choice within 30 feet of it to make a DC 14 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target suffers the effect of the confusion spell (no concentration required). Etherealness. The meld enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can’t affect or be affected by anything on the other plane.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 20973
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Exploring Eberron

