# Mendis Fronde

**description**: A strange druid with a natural affinity for animal and plant life, Mendis cares for them tenderly. In particular, his fascination with fungus and mycelium has led him to unique discoveries in druidic magic. Personality and Motivations. Mendis is quite socially inept and finds interacting with others difficult, though he doesn’t especially dislike social interactions. However, he believes that individual differences in thought are the source of all hardship and strife, and seeks to bring the world together through a unifying mindnet of fungi. Mendis doesn’t wish to remove the autonomy of the individual, but sees the removal of any chance for miscommunication or intellectual disagreement between individuals as a cure to the world’s problems. Fungal Reanimation. In his care for the creatures near his hermitage in a hillside cave, Mendis has discovered a ritual that has the ability to heal any wound and even bring creatures back from the dead by incorporating a rare bioluminescent fungi into their bodies. This ritual, paired with unique properties of the fungus, slowly zombifies the creatures as they lose their individuality and mix with a vast, unified network formed by the fungus and the creatures that it has been incorporated with. As a result, many creatures near his hermitage have bioluminescent fungus growing from their bodies, and several are commonly found following him around in his home. Fungal Corruption. Each time Mendis or another creature is revived using his ritual (an altered version of the returnal spell), it becomes more closely bonded with the fungal mindnet and less capable of acting independently, strengthening the mindnet. Knowing this, the mindnet attempts to force Mendis to fight to the death whenever he is put at risk as long as his home is safe. Appearance. Mendis is a pale-skinned human who looks far older than his middle-aged years with a hunched back requiring a staff to aid his posture. He wears simple, burlap clothes that have grown so dirty that they have become green with mossy vegetation. However, his most distinct feature are the bioluminescent mushrooms that grow from his body. Shelf mushrooms grow from the right side of his face, and the bioluminescent mycorrhyzal roots of the fungus have grown through his right eye, blinding it. His hands and feet are kept bare, and his nails are blackened with dirt. Plot Hooks Miracle Healer. The party hears tales of a hermit who can work miracles of healing that even powerful clerics cannot perform. However, a few rumors are also beginning to spread of changes in the personality of those he heals. A Strange Glen. The party happens upon Mendis’s hermitage as they travel through the forest in which he resides. The glen is filled with strange-looking animals and fungi sprout all over, even in places with no rotting vegetation. Fungus Super-Spreader. Mendis has performed his ritual so many times that the mindnet of connected creatures has gained a sort of super-sentience. It has taken on his goal and now seeks to force itself on any creature that enters Mendis’s glen, using controlled creatures and individuals to attack intruders before performing the ritual to connect them to the mindnet. Mendis himself is either unaware of the change, or takes no issue with it, his own mind now also growing a bit hazy in its connection to the fungal mindnet. Fungally-Infected Beasts Mendis is usually encountered in the company of several (at least two) beasts with the Fungal Network trait. These beasts are also immune to poison damage and the diseased and poisoned conditions, and could have increased Constitution scores and hit dice to represent their increased vigor provided by the fungal network. Mendis’s challenge rating increases the more beasts he has with him, especially if those beasts have a lot of hit points, as those beasts serve as additional pools of hit points for Mendis via his Fungal Protection trait. Tactics Mendis does his best to avoid fighting under normal circumstances. However, if a threat to his home and his goals becomes apparent, he calls on woodland beasts infected with the Fungal Network to aid him. The mindnet knows that Mendis is key to its expansion and survival, and uses these creatures to protect him. If they are slain, Mendis tries to flee. However, as long as Mendis’s home is safe and he can be revived upon death, the mindnet attempts to force him to fight to the death. Mendis can make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw at the start of each of his turns to resist the mindnet. Mendis himself is not a particularly capable fighter, and he relies on Spore Cloud ability to make himself a credible threat, using it whenever it is available. If Mendis needs to flee, he can use his Wildshape to transform into a bird (such as a giant eagle) to improve his mobility. Traits Beast Friend. Mendis can converse with animals in simple language and request small tasks of them that they are happy to fulfill. These tasks can’t be Dangerous II for the animal. Fungal Network. Mendis can communicate telepathically with any other creature with the Fungal Network trait. Additionally, Mendis has advantage on attack rolls when attacking a target that is adjacent to another creature with the Fungal Network trait. Fungal Protection. Whenever Mendis would take damage or suffer an Injury, that damage or Injury is instead inflicted on another creature with the Fungal Network trait within 60 ft. of Mendis (replacing an NPC core Injury with a PC core Injury if that creature is a PC). Additionally, Mendis’s body is afforded some protection by the fungi that grow on it, giving him a +5 bonus to AC (included in stat block). Each time he is Injured and the Injury is not transferred to another creature, this bonus decreases by 1. Actions Druidic Staff. Melee Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) bludgeoning damage. Spore Cloud (1/Rest). One creature Mendis can see within 20 ft. of him must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the creature gains the Fungal Network trait and can’t attack Mendis unless it succeeds on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. An affected creature can make a new saving throw to end this effect at the end of each of its turns, or whenever it takes damage or sustains an Injury from Mendis’s Fungal Protection trait. This ability recharges when a creature succeeds its saving throw against it. If a creature dies while affected by this ability, it rises as a zombie with the Fungal Network trait under the control of the fungal mindnet. Restraining Mycelium (Recharge 5-6). Up to two creatures Mendis can see that are standing on soil within 90 ft. of him must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be restrained by grasping mycelium sprouting from the dirt below them for 1 minute (requires concentration). A creature restrained by the mycelium can use its action to make a DC 17 Strength check, freeing itself on a success. This counts as a spell of 1st level. Fungal Restoration (3/Day). Up to three creatures Mendis can see with the Fungal Network trait regain 13 (3d8) hit points and are healed of Injuries they suffer from without suffering lasting effects. Fungal Growth. Mendis conjures then sprouts fungal spores in up to two creatures he can see within 90 ft. of him. Those creatures must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 28 (8d6) poison damage and gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, “Fungal Host”. While Injured in this way, a creature has disadvantage on saving throws against Mendis’s spells and effects. This Injury can be removed by any effect that removes a disease, and is automatically removed when the creature finishes a short or long rest. On a successful saving throw, the creature takes half damage and does not suffer the Injury. This counts as a spell of 3rd level. Wildshape (2/Rest). Mendis can take the form of any beast of CR 1 or lower for up to 8 hours. While in this form, he loses his ability to use his Druidic Staff, Restraining Mycelium, and Fungal Growth actions, and he assumes the beast’s hit points and Hit Dice, retaining his own Injury thresholds, as well as the beast’s Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. His equipment merges with his new form. When his new form is reduced to 0 hit points, or at the end of 8 hours, he reverts to his human form. His beast form is distinguishable from other beasts by its bioluminescent fungal growths, including a shelf mushroom growing through his right eye. Bonus Actions Summon Beasts (1/Rest). The fungal mindnet calls two beasts of up to CR 1 to aid Mendis. These beasts have the Fungal Network trait and are immune to poison damage and the diseased and poisoned conditions. This ability can only be used if Mendis has no allies within 60 ft. of him and has half his hit points remaining or fewer (72 hit points).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human, shapeshifter)
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

