# Mephistopheles

**description**: Mephistopheles is the lord of Cania, the eighth level of the Nine Hells, and the most formidable archdevil next to Asmodeus himself. He is famed as the Nine Hells’ most powerful spellcaster and the wielder of a power known as Hellfire. An ancient entity, rivaling Asmodeus in age, Mephistopheles has been responsible for many schemes to try and unseat the Lord of the Nine Hells. One of his most infamous was an alliance between himself, Dispater, Mammon, and Geryon. They conspired to take power from the other archdevils, Baalzebul, Zariel, Belial, and Moloch. With this increased power, Mephistopheles believed he could challenge Asmodeus himself. But he was betrayed by Geryon, who had secretly sided with Asmodeus. Despite the blatancy of his rebellion, Mephistopheles was the archdevil that suffered the least: not cursed like Mammon or Baalzebul; not cast down like Belial, Moloch or Geryon. This has led many to believe that there is some ancient secret to the relationship between Asmodeus and Mephistopheles, though what it could be is a mystery none have discovered. As the foremost spellcaster of the Nine Hells, Mephistopheles often resorts to magic when forced to defend himself. But his greatest power comes from the ability to wield Hellfire itself. Created by tapping into the profane essence of the Nine Hells, Hellfire is unimaginably, unbearably hot. Mephistopheles can also shape Hellfire however he wishes, making it his most potent weapon. Mephistopheles’ Lair This archdevil’s lair is the Citadel of Mephistar, located within the glacier of Nargus. This an elegantly carved ice palace and is home to Mephistopheles’ private manor, along with living accommodations for numerous other devils. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Mephistopheles can take one lair action to cause the following effect or one from the archdevil lair action list ; he can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Conjure Hellfire . Mephistopheles covers a 5-foot square with Hellfire. Any creature that starts their turn in the Hellfire takes 27 (6d8) fire damage. The Hellfire remains until Mephistopheles dismisses it. Regional Effects The region containing Mephistopheles’ lair is corrupted by his presence, which creates the following effect: Geysers. Within 1 mile of Mephistopheles’ lair, every 100 feet of movement results in a flame geyser erupting. Creatures within 10 feet of a geyser when it erupts must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) fire damage. The geyser continues erupting for 24 hours. If Mephistopheles dies, the effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Traits Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede Mephistopheles’ darkvision. Fiendish Regeneration. Mephistopheles regains 20 hit points at the start of his turn. If he takes radiant damage this trait doesn’t function at the start of his next turn. Mephistopheles only dies if he starts his turn with 0 hit points and is unable to regenerate. Flyby. Mephistopheles doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when he flies out of an enemy’s reach. Hellfire Mastery. Fire damage that Mephistopheles inflicts ignores resistances and immunities. Mephistopheles is immune to this effect. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Mephistopheles fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Mephistopheles has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. Mephistopheles makes three Ranseur attacks. He can replace one of the attacks with Hellfire Lash (if available). Ranseur +3. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) fire or cold damage (Mephistopheles’ choice). Hellfire Implosion (Recharge 4–6). A bright streak of Hellfire appears at a point that Mephistopheles can see within 150 feet of him. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw. Targets take 31 (9d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Hellfire Lash (Recharge 5–6). Mephistopheles unleashes a 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide lash of Hellfire that ignites a 5-foot-radius sphere around where it strikes. Any targets in the area of effect must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Spellcasting. Mephistopheles casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 26): At will: Darkness, Detect Evil and Good, Detect Magic, Dispel Magic, Geas (duration 1 year), Greater Restoration, Hallow, Hold Monster, Locate Creature, Locate Object, Major Image, Resurrection, Scrying, Suggestion, Wall of Fire 1/day each: Meteor Swarm, Symbol, Wish Bonus Actions Ashen Teleport. Mephistopheles’ body and any equipment he is wearing or carrying turns to ash, then he magically teleports up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space he can see and reforms. Legendary Actions Mephistopheles can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Mephistopheles regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Hellfire Wings. Mephistopheles uses his wings to generate a burst of heat. Each creature within 10 feet of him must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage. Creatures that failed the save also have the prone condition. Hellfire Storm (Costs 2 Actions). Mephistopheles creates a rain of Hellfire at a point he can see within 150 feet. Each creature within a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw. Targets take 38 (7d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Call Underling (Costs 3 Actions). Mephistopheles summons an allied horned devil in an unoccupied space that he can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28645
- Challenge Rating: 27

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Chains of Asmodeus

