# Midnight Sun

**description**: A large sphere of radiant energy floats through the night sky. This creature appears in polar and subpoloar regions during periods of midnight sun and polar night, or under the glow of the northern lights. In areas of darkness, the midnight sun resembles a sphere of light, and in areas with any light, it appears as a sphere of darkness. Regardless of its form, any living creature that encounters it suffers severe bodily harm and experiences strange disruptions of reality. Malevolent. Perhaps because it has no permanent physical form of its own, the midnight sun desires nothing more than to extinguish the lives of other creatures. It floats through the arctic sky, searching for living beings, which it attempts to herd into isolated areas, such as ice caves and ravines. There, it corners its prey, snuffing out their life forces. Time Sensitive. The creature exists only during periods of midnight sun and polar night, or under the northern lights. Reports of midnight suns appearing during a solar eclipse exist. One moment, it does not exist and the next it manifests into being at full strength. Similarly, the moment these periods end, the creature winks out of existence, only to reappear when the right conditions return. Changing Form. The midnight sun's form automatically changes based on the presence or absence of light in its space. Day Form. While more than half the midnight sun is in darkness, it appears as a glowing orb of light, though it sheds no light. In this form, it deals radiant damage, has immunity to radiant damage, and has vulnerability to necrotic damage. Night Form. While more than half the midnight sun is in bright or dim light, it appears as an orb of darkness. In this form, it deals necrotic damage, has immunity to necrotic damage, and has vulnerability to radiant damage. Twilight Form. While half the midnight sun is in bright or dim light and the other half is in darkness, it appears as a split orb of light and darkness. In this form, it deals force damage. Energy Being. The midnight sun can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing, and it can enter a hostile creature's space and stop there. The first time it enters a creature's space on a turn, that creature takes 3 (1d6) damage of the type determined by the sun's current form. Reality Inversion. Reality is inverted for creatures close to the midnight sun. When a creature starts its turn in the sun's space or within 5 feet of the sun, any circumstance, trait, or feature that would grant it advantage, instead grants it disadvantage, and vice versa, until the start of its next turn. Actions Multiattack. The midnight sun makes three Energy Blast attacks. Energy Blast. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) damage of the type determined by the sun's current form. Energy Pulse (Recharge 5-6). The midnight sun emits a pulse of energy. Each creature within 15 feet of the midnight sun must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) damage of the type determined by the sun's current form on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

