# Mimic Companion (PB 5)

**description**: You could steer clear of abandoned treasure chests, ignore the cries of kittens, and stay out of dark alleys for the rest of your life. Even so, a mimic can ambush you out of the clear blue sky. Mimsen Ickus, honorary knight of the Ivy Irons For the cocky adventurers heedless of danger, a mimic is as deadly as a dragon. These amorphous creatures possess an unmatched ability to disguise themselves as any object, from furniture to treasure. Mimics learn what their victims want and use it to lure prey into their serrated teeth. A mimic can make their home in any environment. So long as the area has prey and places to hide—among tree branches, along the faults of a cliff, or behind the baubles of a crowded bazaar stall—a mimic can wait for the perfect moment to strike. Sticks to You. A mimic can make any part of their skin sticky. This allows them to climb most surfaces and attach to unfortunate creatures who touch them, which is why mimics in dungeons often disguise themselves as tempting treasures. Panic Shifting. When a mimic feels pain, they can quickly compress their body into a dense object, popping a bouquet of boney spikes out of their skin. Threatened mimics can remain in this form indefinitely, and they often use it as a warning sign to predators that they are hard to swallow. Mimic Sounds. While mimics don’t understand language, they can mimic sounds they hear—including human speech. They often cleverly use a former victim’s pleas for help to attract would-be heroes as the mimic’s latest meal. Well-Fed Companions. When a mimic’s hunger is satisfied, they become docile. Most can wait weeks between meals, sitting patiently in the form of a barrel or rock. If a daring adventurer feeds a mimic until it is docile, the monstrosity may become fond of that hero. They follow and defend this reliable food source, and if the bond grows strong enough, they may even allow the adventurer to wear them like clothing. Used as Distractions. Spies, thieves, and others who wish to walk into guarded locations unnoticed plant a mimic as a distraction just outside the restricted area they need to enter. The mastermind can slip in during the mimic’s initial rampage and then more easily sneak out while the guardians spread thin throughout the complex, poking every vase and floor tile with a halberd to make sure there are no more monstrosities in the area. Unseen Assassins. Hired killers find a relationship with a mimic can be quite profitable, as the assassin can infiltrate their target’s space and leave the shapechanger to do the dirty work. These trained mimics can lie in wait for days, pretending to be a benign chest or wardrobe. There is some risk involved, since the mimic could devour someone other than the intended target, tipping off the real quarry. A panicked mimic might run back to the handler, leading the authorities right to the person responsible. But assassination is risky business! Traits Shapechanger. The mimic can use their action to polymorph into a Small, Medium, or Large object or back into their true amorphous form. Other than size, the mimic’s statistics are the same in each form. Anything they are wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. They revert to their true form if they die. False Appearance (Object Form Only). While the mimic remains motionless, they are indistinguishable from an ordinary object. Actions Signature Attack (Bite). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB piercing damage. 1 st Level: Distracting Attack ( 2 Ferocity). The mimic makes a signature attack. On a hit, the attack deals its normal effects, and the next attack made against the target before the start of the mimic’s next turn has advantage. 3 rd Level: Adhesive Pseudopods ( 5 Ferocity). The mimic attempts to adhere to each creature of their choice within 5 feet of them. Each target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 10 plus PB). 5 th Level: I’m You ( 8 Ferocity). The mimic uses their Shapechanger trait to polymorph into one Large or smaller creature they can see within 5 feet of them. Other than size, the mimic’s statistics do not change, and the mimic reverts to their previous form at the start of their next turn. After transforming, the mimic can make a signature attack against the target whose form they have taken. Hit or miss, the target must then make a DC 10 plus PB Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, attacks against the target have advantage and the target has disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws until the start of the mimic’s next turn. Bonus Actions Wearable Companion. While the mimic is within 5 feet of their caregiver, the mimic can pull themself into the caregiver’s space, cover the caregiver’s body, and take on the appearance of clothing. While the caregiver is wearing the mimic, the mimic’s space is not difficult terrain for the caregiver, the caregiver has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks, and the caregiver can change the appearance of their mimic clothing at will (no action required) as long as the caregiver and mimic aren’t incapacitated. Any attack that hits the caregiver also hits the mimic they are wearing, and vice versa, with both taking the full damage and effect of the attack. While worn in this way, the mimic can’t move, and they can’t take actions other than using a bonus action to revert to their previous form. A mimic automatically reverts to their previous form if they enter a rampage. Upon reverting to their previous form, the mimic is no longer worn by their caregiver, and the mimic enters the nearest unoc­cupied space of their choice.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

