# Mimic Mimiature

**description**: You could steer clear of abandoned treasure chests, ignore the cries of kittens, and stay out of dark alleys for the rest of your life. Even so, a mimic can ambush you out of the clear blue sky. Mimsen Ickus, honorary knight of the Ivy Irons For the cocky adventurers heedless of danger, a mimic is as deadly as a dragon. These amorphous creatures possess an unmatched ability to disguise themselves as any object, from furniture to treasure. Mimics learn what their victims want and use it to lure prey into their serrated teeth. A mimic can make their home in any environment. So long as the area has prey and places to hide—among tree branches, along the faults of a cliff, or behind the baubles of a crowded bazaar stall—a mimic can wait for the perfect moment to strike. Sticks to You. A mimic can make any part of their skin sticky. This allows them to climb most surfaces and attach to unfortunate creatures who touch them, which is why mimics in dungeons often disguise themselves as tempting treasures. Panic Shifting. When a mimic feels pain, they can quickly compress their body into a dense object, popping a bouquet of boney spikes out of their skin. Threatened mimics can remain in this form indefinitely, and they often use it as a warning sign to predators that they are hard to swallow. Mimic Sounds. While mimics don’t understand language, they can mimic sounds they hear—including human speech. They often cleverly use a former victim’s pleas for help to attract would-be heroes as the mimic’s latest meal. Well-Fed Companions. When a mimic’s hunger is satisfied, they become docile. Most can wait weeks between meals, sitting patiently in the form of a barrel or rock. If a daring adventurer feeds a mimic until it is docile, the monstrosity may become fond of that hero. They follow and defend this reliable food source, and if the bond grows strong enough, they may even allow the adventurer to wear them like clothing. Used as Distractions. Spies, thieves, and others who wish to walk into guarded locations unnoticed plant a mimic as a distraction just outside the restricted area they need to enter. The mastermind can slip in during the mimic’s initial rampage and then more easily sneak out while the guardians spread thin throughout the complex, poking every vase and floor tile with a halberd to make sure there are no more monstrosities in the area. Unseen Assassins. Hired killers find a relationship with a mimic can be quite profitable, as the assassin can infiltrate their target’s space and leave the shapechanger to do the dirty work. These trained mimics can lie in wait for days, pretending to be a benign chest or wardrobe. There is some risk involved, since the mimic could devour someone other than the intended target, tipping off the real quarry. A panicked mimic might run back to the handler, leading the authorities right to the person responsible. But assassination is risky business! Traits In Your Space. The mimiature can occupy another creature’s space and vice versa, and the mimiature can move through any opening at least 1 inch wide without squeezing. Minion. If the mimiature takes damage from an attack or as the result of a failed saving throw, their hit points are reduced to 0. If the mimiature takes damage from another effect, they die if the damage equals or exceeds their hit point maximum; otherwise they take no damage. Actions Sticky Swarm (Group Attack). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1 bludgeoning damage. Until the end of the target’s next turn, they have disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws made to escape a grapple, and they have advantage on ability checks made to initiate or maintain a grapple. Additionally, if three or more mimiatures joined the attack, the target’s appendages become so sticky that until the end of the target’s next turn, they can’t cast spells with somatic components, they can’t drop objects, and they can’t interact with objects other the ones they are already holding. Group Shapechanger. The mimiature polymorphs into a Tiny object or back into their true amorphous form. If four mimiatures within 5 feet of each other use this action together, they can join together to become one Small object. Anything a mimiature is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. A mimiature in object form reverts to their true form if any mimiature in the group moves, takes an action, or dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Monstrosity (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

