# Mimsy Biteflower

**description**: Lady of the Wasted Court, Mistress of the Hall of Teeth and Toes, and Huntmaster of Havoc Mimsy Biteflower is the undisputed leader of the Red Moon Bandits. Hers is the will behind every plan and every raid, and she is the final arbiter of any dispute among the chaotic members of the band. As an avatar of Dark Pan, Mimsy no longer plays tricks and torments just for the fun of it; now she feasts on the pain and suffering and flesh of the victims of her pranks, all to honor her new god. Mimsy takes a childlike delight in her tricks and pranks, so long as they cause pain and blood. She views the core members of the band as her family but isn’t as protective of the rank-and-file members. Despite this, Mimsy rules her followers with her powerful force of personality and the corrupting influence of the horn of the crimson moon. The bandits adore her and willingly throw themselves into any bloody act she orders. Mimsy believes once her followers activate all the fleshgates, Dark Pan will usher in a new age of chaos and blood. Fortunately for the world, this is proving to be difficult. She has begun to exhaust the resources of her territory in the wastes and travelers are sporadic at best. So Mimsy looks beyond the borders of the wastes, spreading the Red Moon into more fertile areas. CRETCHSKULL Cretchskull, Floating Lord of Burnings and Cracklings , is Mimsy’s constant companion and the unfortunate first victim of her new power as avatar. He objected to his friend’s changed nature, so she murdered him and used the power of the horn to return him to life as a glowing, enchanted skull (use statistics for a will-o’-wisp). Bound to her service, Cretchskull does not remember his death and is exceedingly loyal to his mistress. In the gang, Cretchskull acts as Mimsy’s eyes and ears, spying on the bandits, punishing transgressions, and enforcing Mimsy’s orders as needed. The bandits by and large loathe the floating skull, but they fear his power too much to stand against him directly. TRAITS Aura of Chaos. While she holds the horn of the crimson moon , Mimsy projects an aura of randomness. Once per round, when a creature of her choice starts its turn within 30 feet of her, that creature must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it must immediately use its reaction to perform one of the following activities, as Mimsy chooses: Slow Motion. The target moves at half speed until the start of its next turn. Blood Offering. The target allows her to use her Cursed Bite against it if Mimsy is within 5 feet of it. If not, the target injures itself with a weapon (or its teeth if necessary), taking 7 (2d6) damage of the appropriate type. Trip. The target trips over its own feet, falling prone. Magic Resistance. Mimsy has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. ACTIONS Multiattack. Mimsy makes two Bloody Blade attacks and one Cursed Bite attack. Bloody Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) necrotic damage. Cursed Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage. Mimsy regains a number of hit points equal to the damage dealt by this attack. Superior Invisibility. Mimsy magically turns invisible until her concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment she wears or carries is invisible with her. BONUS ACTIONS Crimson Grin (Recharge 5–6). After dealing damage with her Bloody Blade, Mimsy can lick the blood from the weapon, briefly staining her sharp teeth red. Until the end of her next turn, other creatures, except those that are immune to being frightened, have disadvantage on attacks against her.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

