# Mind Flayer Lich (Illithilich)

**description**: The path to true lichdom is something only the most powerful mind flayer mages can pursue, since it requires the ability to craft a phylactery and cast the imprisonment spell. So long as a mind flayer lich feeds captured souls to its phylactery, it maintains the muscular power of its tentacles and the ability to extract brains. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day) : If the lich fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Turn Resistance : The lich has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead. Magic Resistance : The lich has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Rejuvenation : If it has a phylactery, a destroyed lich gains a new body in 1d10 days, regaining all its hit points and becoming active again. The new body appears within 5 feet of the phylactery. Spellcasting : The lich is an 18th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). The lich has the following Wizard Spells prepared: • Cantrips (at will): Mage Hand, Prestidigitation, Ray of Frost • 1st level (4 slots): Detect Magic, Magic Missile, Shield, Thunderwave • 2nd level (3 slots): Detect Thoughts, Invisibility, Acid Arrow, Mirror Image • 3rd level (3 slots): Animate Dead, Counterspell, Dispel Magic, Fireball • 4th level (3 slots): Blight, Dimension Door • 5th level (3 slots): Cloudkill, Scrying • 6th level (1 slot): Disintegrate, Globe of Invulnerability • 7th level (1 slot): Finger of Death, Plane Shift • 8th level (1 slot): Dominate Monster, Power Word Stun • 9th level (1 slot): Power Word Kill Innate Spellcasting (Psionics) : The lich’s innate spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 20). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no components. • At will: Detect Thoughts, Levitate • 1/day each: Dominate Monster, Plane Shift (self only) Actions Melf's Acid Arrow : Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 90 ft., one target. Hit : 10 (4d4) acid damage and the target takes another 5 (2d4) acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a miss, the arrow splashes the target with acid for half as much of the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn. Paralyzing Touch : Melee Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (3d6) cold damage. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be Paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Ray of Frost : Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (4d8) cold damage and the target's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of the lich's next turn. Tentacles : Melee Weapon Attack : +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 21 (3d10 + 5) psychic damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled, escape DC 15, and must succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until this grapple ends. Extract Brain : Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid grappled by the lich. Hit: 55 (10d10) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the lich kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain. Mind Blast (Recharge 5–6) : The lich magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or take 27 (5d8 + 5) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Tentacles : The lich makes one attack with its tentacles. Extract Brain (Costs 2 Actions) : The lich uses Extract Brain. Mind Blast (Costs 3 Actions) : The lich recharges its Mind Blast and uses it. Cast Spell (Costs 1–3 Actions) : The lich uses a spell slot to cast a 1st-, 2nd-, or 3rd-level spell that it has prepared. Doing so costs 1 legendary action per level of the spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Source: Volo's Guide to Monsters
- Alignment: any evil alignment
- Expansion: 1
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Volo's Guide to Monsters

