# Mindmantle

**description**: In very rare instances, a darkmantle would prey upon a very weak or dying mind flayer in the wilds of the Underdark. Unable to defend itself, the once-mighty mind flayer becomes prey to the lowly darkmantle. Weeks after the darkmantle has consumed the mind flayer, a mutation curiously occurs. The darkmantle's head slightly increases in size, and its intelligence and awareness improve, slowly viewing its brethren as crude and slow. It transforms into a mindmantle and begins to crave brain matter. Marionette Maker. At first, the mindmantle behaves like any other darkmantle. It clings to a cavern ceiling and waits for its prey to pass underneath. When it strikes, it attaches itself to its victim's head. As soon as the darkmantle successfully envelops its prey's head, it uses its madness ability to gain control of its target, controlling the latter like a bizarre marionette to attack and fend off the victim's allies. Traits Damage Transfer. While attached to a creature, the mindmantle takes only half the damage dealt to it (rounded down) and that creature takes the other half. Echolocation. The mindmantle can't use its blindsight while deafened. False Appearance. If the mindmantle is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the mindmantle move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the mindmantle is animate. Actions Crush. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the mindmantle attaches to the target. If the target is Medium or smaller and the mindmantle has advantage on the attack roll, it attaches by engulfing the target's head, and the target is also blinded and unable to breathe while the mindmantle is attached in this way. While attached to the target, the mindmantle can attack no other creature except the target but has advantage on its attack rolls. The mindmantle's speed also becomes 0, it can't benefit from any bonus to its speed, and it moves with the target. A creature can detach the mindmantle by making a successful DC 13 Strength check as an action. On its turn, the mindmantle can detach itself from the target by using 5 feet of movement. Darkness Aura (3/Day). A 15-foot radius of magical darkness extends out from the mindmantle, moves with it, and spreads around corners. The darkness lasts as long as the mindmantle maintains concentration, up to 10 minutes (as if concentrating on a spell). Darkvision can't penetrate this darkness, and no natural light can illuminate it. If any of the darkness overlaps with an area of light created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell creating the light is dispelled. Bonus Actions Madness. A target the mindmantle is attached to must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target is magically charmed by the mindmantle until the mindmantle dies, is incapacitated, or is detached from the target. While the target is charmed in this way, it can telepathically see through the mindmantle's eyes. The charmed target is under the mindmantle's control and the mindmantle and the target can communicate telepathically. The mindmantle can choose to loosen its grip on the target's head so that the target can breathe. On each of its turns, the charmed target must move toward a creature of the mindmantle's choosing and make a melee attack against it if it is within reach. On its subsequent turns, the mindmantle must use its action to maintain control over the target, or the effect ends. The target can make a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns or whenever it takes damage. On a success, the effect ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

