# Mindshard

**description**: A translucent, irregular prism floats through the air in jagged bursts, as limbs of refracted light form around it. Through the prism, the world is refracted into a thousand stunning infinities. Mindshards are parasitic aberrations, with the form of multifaceted crystalline prisms the size of a human torso. They float through the air and interact with the world via illusions and limbs made of refracted light. They live in remote reaches of the plains, where nothing can be seen but endless, rolling grass in every direction. Memetic Spread. Mindshards prey on small groups in great prairies and steppes. The mindshard bewitches travelers with illusions, slowly tearing at their minds until its victims are helpless and pliable. Then the mindshard pulls a victim into its body, refracting who they were into myriad components like a prism refracts light. The process creates duplicates almost identical to the original and with all of its memories, but each imitation is physically weaker than its original and hyper-focused on a single aspect of who it once was. In this way, an attitude, an emotion, or a behavior is stretched and warped to become the entirety of a person. Spawn in Cities and Towns. The mindshard imitations wander back to civilization, slipping into society to incubate a new generation. Some months later, the imitations die, and a new mindshard emerges from each corpse. These new mindshards return to the great expanses they call home, peacefully floating among the grasses until they encounter humanoid travelers and start the process anew. Mindleech Aura. When a charmed creature enters a space within 15 feet of the mindshard on a turn or starts its turn within 15 feet of the mindshard, that creature takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage. Translucent. The mindshard is invisible to creatures more than 60 feet away from it. Actions Multiattack. The mindshard makes two Refracted Light Beam attacks. Refracted Light Beam. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) radiant damage. Light Construction (Recharge 5-6). The mindshard bends light toward a point it can see within 60 feet of it, creating a colorful pattern on that point. Each creature within 20 feet of that point must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage and is charmed and incapacitated for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't charmed or incapacitated. A charmed and incapacitated creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Refract Mind (1/Day). The mindshard pulls a Humanoid with 0 hp into its body, refracting the creature into fragments of itself. The Humanoid dies and 2d4 cultists appear in unoccupied spaces within 15 feet of the mindshard. The cultists, which share the Humanoid's appearance and memories, act as allies of the mindshard and obey its telepathic commands. A Humanoid must have an Intelligence score of 5 or higher to be refracted in this manner. Reactions Enthralling Defense. When a creature the mindshard can see within 30 feet of it hits it with an attack, that creature must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or be charmed until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

