# Mindrender

**description**: A mindrender is a being of pure malevolent psychic energy. Invisible to most, this creature appears only to those filled with powerful negative emotions - despair, panic, fear, etc. - using those emotions against them to harness their psychic pain for its own energy. Appearance. Those few that have survived encounters with a mindrender have described the creature as a ghostly, legless humanoid with exceptionally long arms ending in three claw-like fingers at least a foot in length. Its face is hidden by a hood, two glowing eyes all that is visible from the supernatural darkness within. The creature has no body beneath its empty, tattered cloak, but dark energy swirls within, writhing like worms. Tactics. Preferring to hunt those who already bear strong negative emotions, mindrenders rarely attack those unable to see them. However, if attacked by a group, especially one talented at dealing with invisible creatures, a mindrender seeks to frighten as many as possible while using its Psychic Scream to weaken multiple enemies at once. If it can remain visible to only one or two enemies, it instead uses repeated blows from Flay Psyche to rapidly Injure and kill its target before moving on to the next. Traits Ghastly Form. The mindrender is immune to effects that would change its shape. It can move through objects and end its turn there. If it ends its turn inside an object, it takes 5 (1d10) force damage. Psychic Camouflage. The mindrender is invisible except to creatures experiencing extreme negative emotions, or who have the frightened condition. A creature can use its action to bring up extreme negative emotions in itself by making a DC 14 Charisma saving throw. On a success, it becomes able to see the mindrender for 1 minute or until it makes a new saving throw to end the condition as an action. The mindrender is aware of which creatures can see it. Psychic Carver. The mindrender treats Injury thresholds of frightened creatures as 10 lower than normal. Psychic Consumption. Whenever the mindrender Injures or kills a creature that can see it, it regains 20 hit points. Any hit points that would be gained beyond its maximum hit points are gained as temporary hit points. Actions Multiattack. The mindrender makes two Flay Psyche attacks. Flay Psyche. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 feet, 1 creature. Hit: 13 (3d6+3) psychic damage, and the target must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. Psychic Scream (recharge 5-6). Each creature within 90 feet that can see the mindrender must make a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or have its worst memories brought to the surface. On a failed save, a creature takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage, and becomes frightened until the end of the mindrender's next turn. Bonus Actions Command the Fearful (recharge 5-6). The mindrender touches the minds of those who fear it, filling their minds with uncharacteristic desires and commanding them to strike their allies. As a bonus action, the mindrender chooses one creature that it can see within 60 feet of it that is frightened of it, that creature must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature must use their reaction, if able, to make an attack targeting their nearest ally. This attack roll has advantage and ignores the frightened condition.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 1/4/1900

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

