# Minimic

**description**: Wait! Not that tankard. And not that plate! It looks like the minimics have been breeding again. You can tell by the eyes. Everyone check your purses for mimic eggs, folks! — Heliana, Wary of Coins Type : Monstrosity (shapechanger) Creature Component : Any mimic Bonus Tamer Improvement : Growth I and +2 Hit Dice With an appearance like regular household objects and the ability to change shape at will, minimics are easy to lose. Their adhesive epidermis sticks to everything; tamers with minimic companions often have a bottle of solvent on hand. A minimic’s ability to keep a foe grappled can be a useful battlefield control tactic, especially when deployed as an inanimate object for ambush operations. If any of the minimic’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the minimic’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the minimic’s Constitution modifier. Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the minimic the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Growth I Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Passive (companion) The minimic’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage dice of its bite and pseudopod attacks increase to a d6 . The minimic gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Grappler Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The minimic has advantage on attack rolls against any creature grappled by it. Improved Adhesive Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) Creatures grappled by the minimic have disadvantage on ability checks made to escape its grapple. Growth II Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type : Passive (companion) The minimic’s size increases to Medium, its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage dice of its bite and pseudopod attacks increase from a d6 to a d8 . Multiattack Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the minimic can make two attacks: one with its pseudopod and one with its bite. Regurgitate I Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the minimic can regurgitate a torrent of acidic bile. Each creature in a 15-foot cone must make a Dexterity saving throw , taking 17 ( 5d6 ) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After the minimic uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the minimic’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class , the damage of this action increases to 24 ( 7d6 ). Thick Skin Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The minimic gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Acidic Sweat Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer Type : Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the minimic can secrete acid. Each creature grappling or grappled by the minimic takes acid damage equal to the minimic’s current Hit Die size (1d4, or higher, if it has further Growth improvements). Regurgitate II Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Regurgitate I Type : Active (action) The damage of the minimic’s Regurgitate action increases to 31 ( 9d6 ), and the size of the cone increases to 25 feet . The minmic gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the minimic’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 42 ( 12d6 ). Growth III Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer, Growth II Type : Passive (companion) The minimic’s size increases to Large, its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage dice of its bite and pseudopod attacks increase from a d8 to a d10 .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: monstrosity (shapechanger)
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

