# Miremal

**description**: The creature emerging from the shadows of the swamp is short and lean. Its pale-skinned body is covered in fungus and moss that seems to grow directly in its flesh, and its green eyes weep bloody tears. Miremals are savage, degenerate fey who delight in crafting seemingly safe paths through treacherous swamps—though these paths are, instead, riddled with traps and ambush points. Unreliable Guides. Miremals hunt in packs of three to six and often serve a more powerful creature, especially one that commands potent magic. As a result, many of these paths lead unwary travelers into the grove of a green hag coven or into the lair of a black dragon. Swamp. Miremals have adapted from sylvan forests to the swamps: patches of red and green fungus sprout from their skin, mushrooms and branches grow haphazardly out of their bodies, and moss hangs from beneath their arms. Their eyes are forest green and are perpetually wet with bloody tears—their legends say their tears come from rage over their banishment and agony from knowing they can never return. Hate Moss Lurkers. Miremals are occasionally confused with moss lurkers, but the two despise one another and both consider the comparison odious. Miremal in Midgard Miremals once served the Faerie Queen Titania as honorable scouts and spies. The habits of mind they cultivated, though, made them susceptible to the blandishments of Titania’s dark sister Sarastra, Queen of Night and Magic. She planted within the miremal a hunger for flesh, and many succumbed to Sarastra’s enchantment. They turned against those fey who resisted and devoured their former companions. When the miremal regained their senses, they saw the slaughter they had wrought, including the remains of a cherished young changeling Titania had sworn to protect. Titania cursed and banished the miremal, changing their form and admonishing them to repent and atone. They have not heeded her warning and have shown no remorse. Traits Amphibious: The miremal can breathe air and water. Swamp Camouflage: The miremal has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in swampy terrain. Savage Move: If the miremal surprises a creature, it gets a bonus action it can use on its first turn of combat for a claw attack, a bite attack, or a Bog Spew attack. Actions Multiattack: The miremal makes two attacks, one of which must be a claw attack. Claws: Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 6 (1d6 + 3) Slashing damage. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., One target. Hit : 6 (1d6 + 3) Piercing damage. Bog Spew (Recharge 5-6): The miremal spews a noxious stream of bog filth mixed with stomach acid at a target up to 20 feet away. Target must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1d4 rounds. Reactions Muddled Escape (1/Day): If an attack would reduce the miremal’s hit points to 0, it collapses into a pool of filth-laden swamp water and its hit points are reduced to 1 instead. The miremal can move at its normal speed in this form, including moving through spaces occupied by other creatures. As a bonus action at the beginning of the miremal’s next turn, it can reform, still with 1 hit point.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: fey
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

