# Mirgal, God of Trickery

**description**: Mirgal Mirgal was a magician who specialized in the building of constructs and other forms of artificial life. He infused these with primal magic, sometimes giving them unpredictable temperaments, but always exceptional powers. As a member of the Vanir, he was respected and trusted—though at times his allies were not always appreciative of the personality quirks of his creations. And he was always fond of joking and jesting, even at the expense of his companions. However, over the years, Mirgal felt his contributions were not as appreciated, especially when compared against the considerable abilities of Aldyhn. He eventually met a powerful woman, named Boða, and she offered him access to old tomes and a link to powers he could barely comprehend. He leapt at the chance to grow his magic. His drive to be better than his friends, and his passion towards the mysterious woman, blinded him to her manipulations. With her interference he did more than learn and become stronger. Boða, who insisted on never meeting the other Vanir, would use her magic to whisper to him during the many battles the Vanir fought against their enemies, the Yoten. Her encouragement led to him subtly undermining his allies. Eventually his actions led to the death of other Vanir and Aldyhn and the others turned on him. Though Mirgal’s role is ambiguous, and at times more an ally than villain, he still remains the selfish, sensitive mage that doomed the Vanir of the Lost Lands. Not everything he does benefits the heroes as he seeks to convince Siddhe to become Hel once more so that she may restore him fully to life. He currently exists with only the smallest essence of himself remaining within his head, which was removed during the battle in the Lost Lands but has somehow found its way into Grimnir. Though the head is covered in iron and his powers dampened, Mirgal can exert his will and whisper instructions in the wind to the hundreds of wicker that live in Grimnir. Recently he urged several of them to sneak up to the Stone Court and activate the Rainbow Spear, an act that brought Siddhe back into the world. Roleplaying Mirgal Insecure. He needs to be appreciated. Without constant reassurance of his importance he tries to steal attention from others. He might undermine a rival by playing a joke at their expense or shining a bright light on his own abilities by attempting a dangerous feat. Contrite. Mirgal knows he failed both the Vanir and the entirety of the Lost Lands and when he allows himself to be reminded of this failure, he grows melancholy. At other times he attempts to extricate himself from responsibility by blaming others, but even his own circular logic can never fully remove him from taking responsibility for the destruction of an entire world. Mischievous. His sense of humor is not always appreciated. Even in the midst of a grim battle if Mirgal’s mind conjures something amusing to him, he acts on it. Generally, these pranks are good natured (if ill-timed), however when paired with his insecurities, there may be a slight bite to how his pranks play out. Vengeful. Above all he wants to make Boða pay, both for making him fall in love with her, and for her deception. He does not necessarily want to save Grimnir as much as he wants to stop her from destroying it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 25792
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

