# Misiri the Fractured

**description**: Misiri was brought up in the upper echelons of a dwarven kingdom, though her clan valued asceticism over luxury and service over status. She followed in their traditions by climbing the ranks of the faith of the Sentinel, a deity of vigilance and protection, and became a revered shield-priest as soon as she came of age. After decades of duty, the prestigious Order of the Everguard recruited Misiri and charged her with the protection of Empress Nebrala II. Years later, after two encroaching nations moved in to occupy their lands, Misiri saw war decimate her kingdom. Empress Nebrala refused to negotiate with the invaders and sought a way to defeat the invading forces. She found an ancient dwarven spell scroll that could open a rift to the Plane of Earth to raise a mountain from the ground. During the siege of their last remaining stronghold, the empress ordered Misiri to cast the spell, but the shield-priest refused to endanger the people of the citadel. Furious at her insubordination, the empress had Misiri arrested and took the scroll to cast the spell herself. As the guards seized her, Misiri witnessed in terror as rising crags tore through the citadel, ending hundreds of lives in a matter of seconds. In an act of desperation, she broke free from the hold of the guards, took her sword, and ended her empress’s life, halting the spell. Though her actions saved thousands, Misiri was branded a traitor to the kingdom and earned the contempt of her god. Now Misiri wanders as an outcast, carrying her fractured shield at her back but never wielding it. As the subject of the Sentinel’s scorn, she has learned to turn the doom of her god’s ire against others, carving a new path for herself as an anathematic cleric in order to survive. Dwarven Resilience. Misiri has advantage on saving throws against poison. Potent Spellcasting. Misiri adds her Wisdom modifier to the damage she deals with any cleric cantrip. Spellcasting. Misiri is a 9th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). She has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): light, guidance, mending, sacred flame 1st level (4 slots): bane, healing word, inflict wounds 2nd level (3 slots): hold person, spiritual weapon 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, dispel magic, spirit guardians 4th level (3 slots): banishment, phantasmal killer 5th level (1 slot): dispel evil and good, flame strike Actions Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 6 (1d8 + 2) slashing damage, or 7 (1d10 + 2) slashing damage if used with two hands. Sacred Flame (Cantrip). Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that Misiri can see within 60 feet. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 12 (2d8 + 3) radiant damage. The target gains no benefit from cover for this saving throw. Divine Derogation (2/Short Rest) . Misiri releases a wave of discordant divinity that curses one creature she can see within 30 feet of her for 1 minute. When the cursed creature casts a spell or uses an ability that restores hit points or deals radiant or necrotic damage, it must make a Wisdom saving throw. Celestials and fiends have disadvantage on this saving throw. On a failure, the spell or effect is nullified, and then the curse ends. Reactions Conduit of Ruin. Before a creature rolls the d4 from a bane spell cast by Misiri, she can use her reaction to upgrade the d4 to a d6.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: medium
- Type: humanoid (dwarf)
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 21056
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 9

