# Mistress of Midnight Teeth

**description**: The elegant gnomish noblewoman smiles, flashing dazzling white teeth in contrast to her rich blue hair, and moves with fluid grace past a mirror. As she passes the mirror, her reflection briefly shows old blood caked on her face. Phylomara Gladrienne is mistress of the Court of Midnight Teeth, an influential and loyal vassal to the queen and king of the shadow fey courts. She is a refined and fashionable gnome, bedecked in fine silks and gleaming jewels that compliment her azure hair. She styles her locks elaborately and never quite the same way twice, setting trends among her courtiers. Beneath this veneer of civility and style, however, blood and secrets await. Manicured lawns, incredibly lifelike statues, and bubbling fountains filled with inky midnight waters surround her home. String music drifts on the perpetual gloom, beckoning travelers to this oasis of lantern-dappled beauty. Lady of the Blue Barbers. The gnome courtiers of Midnight Teeth who attend the mistress in her home also serve as her agents abroad. They call themselves the Blue Barbers, after their universally blue hair and their desire to bring style to all they meet. They serve as valets, barbers, art dealers, decorators, and stylists of all kinds. The Blue Barbers are polite, gregarious, and knowledgeable on a variety of topics, which they eagerly share while plying their trade. Hunger for Secrets and Flesh. The mistress is perpetually ravenous for secrets and flesh. The Blue Barbers are such sparkling conversationalists and irresistible gossips because every scrap of information passes from their lips to their mistress’ ears. The feasts and banquets thrown at her court are legendary. They are nightly events, and the perfect opportunity to seek her favor. She knows much that is hidden and might be willing to part with her knowledge in trade, but those who cross her learn too late of the insatiable hunger for living flesh yawning beneath her refined exterior. The Mistress’ Lair The mistress resides within the Court of Midnight Teeth, a lavish manse of marble and silver in the Plane of Shadow. Giltframed mirrors adorn almost every wall. Goblin servants wait on gnome courtiers who wear outrageous, elaborate cobalt blue hairstyles. When encountered in her lair, the mistress has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP) Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the mistress takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the mistress can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: * The mistress forges a bond with her reflections in the many mirrors adorning her lair, shuffling her wounds off onto the images. She gains 30 temporary hit points. * The mistress magically steps into any reflective surface within 5 feet of her, and teleports to any other reflective surface within 100 feet of her. She appears in the closest unoccupied space to the destination reflection. * Reflections of the mistress appear in mirrors or other reflective surfaces, including those carried or worn by creatures. The reflections reach out and grab up to three creatures the mistress can see within 120 feet of her. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 15) by the reflections. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The grapple lasts until the mistress uses this lair action again, until she dismisses it as an action, or until she dies. * The mistress creates a 20-foot radius of gloom centered on a point she can see within 120 feet of her. The light conditions in the area diminish: bright light becomes dim light, and dim light becomes darkness. The sphere lasts until the mistress uses this lair action again, until she dismisses it as an action, or until she dies. Regional Effects The region containing the mistress’ lair is warped by her magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: * Humanoids and fey who finish a long rest within 5 miles of the lair find themselves exceedingly hungry. No matter how much they eat, this feeling of hunger never completely subsides unless the meal was in the banquet hall of the Court of Midnight Teeth. * Reflections within 3 miles of the lair move of their own accord, but never while being directly observed. * While in her lair, the mistress can cast the scrying spell at will, targeting any mirror within 3 miles of the lair or any mirror within 5 feet of any Blue Barber anywhere in the multiverse. Charisma is her spellcasting ability for this spell. If the mistress dies, these effects fade in 1d10 days. The Blue Barbers in Midgard The Blue Barbers are a staple sight in the Free City of Zobeck in Midgard. They are chatty, blue-haired and bearded gnomes set up on Wharf Street, offering haircuts, shaves, styles, and wonderful conversation. The Blue Barbers are beginning to appear in other cities throughout the Crossroads region of Midgard and beyond, on the lookout for heroes of interest and skill who might one day be of use to their mistress. For more information on the Blue Barbers, see the Zobeck Gazetteer and the Midgard Worldbook . Touch of Cold Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. However, cold iron weapons are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: fey
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

