# Mithral Golem

**description**: Among the mightiest of golems, the mithral golem stands 18 feet tall and resembles a hulking humanoid. It is forged from mithral, the rare and precious metal produced from ores that can only be found in the Underdark as well as in specific mountain ranges of Faerûn. While most golems tend to be lumbering and ponderous, the mithral golem is deceptively agile and graceful. Dwarven-Crafted Sentinels. The mithral golems were first crafted long ago by dwarven artificers to solve one of their main problems - vulnerability to dragon attack. The dwarves needed a powerful guardian that can withstand and repel an assault of an adult dragon. Thus, the wealthiest and most powerful dwarven kingdoms always have a few mithral golems serving as sentries. The plans for creating mithral golems were a carefully guarded secret kept by the dwarves. However, an enterprising master thief was able to steal and make copies of it, selling them to the highest bidders. Despite the availability of the knowledge to craft them, mithral golems are very rare as they are costly and difficult to build. A few are rumored to still stand guard over ancient and forgotten dwarven royal crypts and treasure vaults. Alacritous Defender. Adventurers that first encounter a mithral golem are often surprised by the construct's quickness, as the mithral golem can perform an extra action each turn. Those unfortunate enough to be gripped by the golem are bludgeoned or smashed against each other. Traits Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Unusual Nature. The golem doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (4d8 + 9) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 23). Until this grapple ends, the golem can automatically hit the target with its Slam attack, and the golem can't attack another target with one of its Slam attacks. Bludgeon. The golem slams creatures grappled by it into each other or a solid surface. Each creature must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw or take 27 (4d8 + 9) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of the golem's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Crushing Stride. The golem moves up to its speed in a straight line. During this move, it can enter Large or smaller creatures' spaces. A creature whose space the golem enters must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is pushed 5 feet to the nearest space out of the golem's path. On a failed save, the creature falls prone and takes 27 (4d8 + 9) bludgeoning damage. If the golem remains in the prone creature's space, the creature is also restrained until it's no longer in the same space as the golem. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 23 Strength check. On a success, the creature is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the golem and is no longer restrained. Bonus Actions Alacrity. The golem can take the Attack (one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use an Object action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

