# Monstrous Corpse Flower

**description**: A corpse flower, if left unchecked, will continue to consume corpses and grow until it reaches a monstrous size. This usually happens due to the efforts made by the Blightlords of Talona, an evil cult of plague druids based in the Unapproachable East. Their members cultivate, tend, and grow corpse flowers until they reach such sizes where they can be directed and unleashed alone on civilized settlements. Corpse Spray. If the monstrous corpse flower was able to consume enough corpses, it can discharge a powerful jet of liquified corpse remains and bones. Creatures caught by the spray are left battered and momentarily sickened, if not outright killed. Traits Corpses. When first encountered, a corpse flower contains the corpses of 2d6 + 6 humanoids. A corpse flower can hold the remains of up to eighteen dead humanoids. These remains have total cover against attacks and other effects outside the corpse flower. If the corpse flower dies, the corpses within it can be pulled free. While it has at least one humanoid corpse in its body, the corpse flower can use a bonus action to do one of the following: The corpse flower digests two humanoid corpse in its body and instantly regains 22 (4d10) hit points. Nothing of the digested body remains. Any equipment on the corpse is expelled from the corpse flower in its space. The corpse flower animates two dead humanoids in its body, turning them into zombies. The zombies appear in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the corpse flower and act immediately after it in the initiative order. The zombies act as allies of the corpse flower but aren't under its control, and the flower’s stench clings to the zombies (see the Stench of Death trait). Spider Climb. The corpse flower can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Stench of Death. Each creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the corpse flower or one of its zombies must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, unless the creature is a construct or undead. On a failed save, the creature is incapacitated until the end of the turn. Creatures that are immune to poison damage or the poisoned condition automatically succeed on this saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is immune to the stench of all corpse flowers for 24 hours. Actions Multiattack. The corpse flower makes three Tentacle attacks and uses Harvest the Dead, if applicable. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (6d6) poison damage. Harvest the Dead. The corpse flower grabs one unsecured dead humanoid within 10 feet of it and stuffs the corpse into itself, along with any equipment the corpse is wearing or carrying. The remains can be used with the Corpses trait. Corpse Spray (Recharge 5-6). The corpse flower consumes up to four humanoid corpses and discharges a powerful jet of putrefied liquid body remains and bones in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 7 (2d6) piercing damage and 7 (2d6) necrotic damage for each corpse consumed by the corpse flower and the target is incapacitated until the end of the corpse flower's next turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

