# Moonshadow Catcher

**description**: A purple-skinned goblin with large green eyes effortlessly sticks to the wall, clutching a net woven from threads of pure shadow energy. Moonshadow catchers are shadow goblins who have learned to magically bend the transitions between light and darkness. Traits Goblin Leaders. Moonshadow catchers are feared and respected by other shadow goblins and tend to hold leadership positions in goblin clans or settlements. Young shadow goblins are raised on tales of moonshadow catchers, stealing and devouring the shadows of children who disobey their elders. Shadow Manipulation. Moonshadow catchers' powers rely entirely on manipulating their own shadow and the shadows attached to the creatures around them. By using their own shadows as an additional appendage, a catcher can cling to walls and other difficult surfaces, much like a spider. Shadow Camouflage. The moonshadow catcher has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in dim light or darkness. Spider Climb. The moonshadow catcher can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the moonshadow catcher has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Unseelie Blessing. The moonshadow catcher has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put it to sleep. Actions Multiattack. The moonshadow catcher makes two Shortsword attacks or two Hand Crossbow attacks. They can replace one of those attacks with either a Mooncatcher's Net attack or a Steal Shadow attack. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. Hand Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is also paralyzed while poisoned in this way. The target is no longer paralyzed if it takes damage or if another creature takes an action to shake it awake. Mooncatcher's Net. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, ranged 20/60 ft., one Medium or smaller creature. Hit: The target is restrained until it escapes the net. A creature can use its action to make a DC 16 Strength check to free itself or another creature in the net, ending the effect on a success. Dealing 15 slashing damage to the net (AC 14) frees the target. Steal Shadow (Recharge 5-6). The moonshadow catcher targets a creature they can see within 60 feet, turning the target's own shadow against them. The target must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, they are restrained until the end of the moonshadow catcher's next turn. On a successful save, they are grappled until the end of the moonshadow catcher's next turn. Bonus actions Nimble Escape. The moonshadow catcher takes the Disengage or Hide action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Goblinoid)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

