# Moonless Hunter

**description**: This hulking, bipedal creature stalks the beach, its yellow eyes glowing. Water cascades down its back. A dripping wet figure, the moonless hunter prowls coastal roads and shorelines, never straying far from the sea yet loathe to go too near it. This fey horror stalks seaside communities and small islands for prey. Creation of the Dark Fey. A moonless hunter is created from the soul of an evil individual that drowned at sea, and some believe that those drowned by fey trickery are most likely to become moonless hunters. The taint of death still lingers in these products of dark fey magic. Devours Dreams. The moonless hunter feeds on fear and mortal dreams. Stealing into homes on dark nights, the moonless hunter consumes sweet dreams and nightmares alike. On occasion it will snack on the dreamer as well, overcome by especially delicious dreams. Deathly Origins. The moonless hunter can be turned and can take damage from holy water as if it was Undead. Magic Resistance. The moonless hunter has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Nightmare Leap. Once on its turn, the moonless hunter can use half its movement to step magically into the dreams of a sleeping creature within 5 feet of it. It emerges from the dreams of another sleeping creature within 1 mile of the first sleeper, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second sleeper. Each sleeper then must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or suffer one level of exhaustion, as the resulting nightmares prevent restful sleep. A creature that fails this saving throw by 5 or more also suffers long-term madness. Spider Climb. The moonless hunter can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the moonless hunter has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The moonless hunter uses Briny Embrace, if it has a creature grappled. It then makes two Claw attacks or one Bite attack and one Claw attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 14). The moonless hunter has two claws, each of which can grapple only one target. Briny Embrace. The moonless hunter fills the lungs of one creature grappled by it with seawater. The creature must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or begin suffocating. A suffocating but conscious creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The effect also ends if the creature escapes the grapple. Whispered Terrors (Recharge 5-6). The moonless hunter bombards the minds of up to three creatures it can see within 60 feet of it with nightmares. Each target must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 18 (4d8) psychic damage and is frightened until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't frightened. If a creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it also suffers short-term madness.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

