# Moppet

**description**: An intricately carved, wooden doll wobbles enthusiastically on unsteady legs. It reaches out its hand in a welcoming gesture. What seems a simple toy is a cunning construct created to produce magical power from the trauma of intelligent creatures. Innocent. Moppets aren't innately hostile. However, they follow their owners' commands without question, and those are rarely benign. Strangely, the powers of a moppet are ineffective on children, who see nothing more than a toy. This can lead to tragedy when a child brings home a moppet. Nightmare Reality. The moppet's true power is drawing creatures into a shared nightmare. Creatures can be harmed, and even killed, in this waking nightmare. Meanwhile, the moppet draws and stores psychic energy from those creatures. Origins. Moppets are typically crafted by cruel spellcasters seeking to destroy enemies while siphoning power for their own purposes, though the first moppets' exact origins are uncertain. Some say they were the products of hags, while others credit various evil wizards or magical cabals. Construct Nature. The moppet doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. False Appearance. While the moppet remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal doll. Psychic Pool. The moppet absorbs psychic energy from creatures in its waking nightmare, holding up to four Psychic Points at a time. As a bonus action while casting a spell within 5 feet of the moppet, the moppet's owner can expend these points to cast the spell without expending a spell slot. To do so, the owner must expend a number of Psychic Points equal to the spell's level. Actions Psychic Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) psychic damage. If the moppet scores a critical hit, it gains one Psychic Point. Waking Nightmare. Each creature with an Intelligence of 3 or higher within 60 feet of the moppet must make a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw. On a failure, the creature enters a collective fugue state with all other creatures that failed the save. The creature is unconscious, but it doesn't drop anything it is holding or fall prone. All creatures in this state are faced with a hostile nightmare creature. The nightmare creature uses the statistics of a brown bear, except it deals psychic damage instead of piercing or slashing damage. The appearance of the nightmare creature is up to the GM but should reflect the mutual fears of the affected creatures. A fight with the nightmare creature works as normal, except all the action takes place in the minds of the affected creatures. When an affected creature is reduced to 0 hp, the moppet gains one Psychic Point. If the nightmare creature, or the moppet, is reduced to 0 hp, all creatures in the fugue state awaken. Any spell slots or class features used in the nightmare combat are expended, but magic item charges or uses aren't expended. If a creature in the fugue state takes damage from a source other than the nightmare creature, it can immediately repeat the saving throw with advantage, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the moppet's Waking Nightmare for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Nimble Moves. The moppet takes the Dash or Disengage action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

