# Mordain the Fleshweaver

**description**: The artificer Mordain stands looking down on a cauldron bubbling with green liquid. He is an aging male elf whose form reflects his penchant for unnatural experimentation, and he wears purple robes atop which he has strapped surgical tools and arcnae vials. His face is that of a normal elf with brown skin and long red hair, but his eyes sport glowing gold irises surrounded by blackness. In his right hand, he holds a luminous gold spellshard, and his fingers that wrap around the shard are clawed and inhuman. His left hand is raised as if making an incantation, and its flesh is significantly paler than the rest of his body, as if he replaced his original arm with that of another person. Meanwhile, tentacles emerge from his sleeve, as if they're connected to his upper arm. He has several scars on his body, the results of other experimentation, including one on his neck that resembles the Mark of Shadow. Several spider-like skinweavers surround him; one clings to spiderwebs in the background, while another stirs the cauldron with a hand that's half-humanoid, half tentacled. Note : More information about Mordain can be found in his chapter, here . Facing Mordain In general, Mordain’s role is as creator of monsters and other threats. He’s not really intended to serve as a monster himself, as he’s a grand instigator who has no desire to be pulled into demeaning physical conflicts. Nonetheless, a story could involve fighting Mordain, and statistics are provided for him here … but defeating Mordain and killing him are two very different tasks. One of Mordain’s defining features is that he’s impossible to kill. The Twelve took him prisoner, but even with all of the resources at their disposal, they couldn’t kill him. Think of it this way: through his work, Mordain has essentially become a living artifact, and is as indestructible as any other artifact—including being immune to the effects of a sphere of annihilation ! So if the adventurers have to kill Mordain, what can they do that the Twelve couldn’t have tried back in the day? Could adventurers gain the power to kill him by dealing with Katashka the Gatekeeper or the Bone King of Mabar? Is there some secret tied to his past that would reveal a weakness—could he be killed by a member of his own bloodline, or by one of his own creations? Like an artifact, there’s surely some way to destroy Mordain, but learning this technique and executing it would be an epic challenge. Around Blackroot Over many generations, Mordain has transformed the woods surrounding Blackroot. The people of Droaam call it the Forest of Flesh, and that’s not just a colorful title. Long ago, Mordain created skinweavers—spiderlike aberrations that weave webs from the muscles and entrails of their victims. The forest is filled with a bizarre array of flora and fauna, ranging from eerie natural things from other environments (like phosphorescent vegetation usually only found underground) to Mordain’s entirely unnatural creations. Adventurers could encounter a troll with the wings and Luring Song of a harpy, or a manticore with the massive head of a medusa—and its deadly abilities. Like the skinweavers, some of these creations have carved out a broad niche within the region, but for the most part, the Forest of Flesh is filled with bizarre and unique encounters. Mordain's Lair The tower of Blackroot is Mordain’s stronghold and his greatest tool. Blackroot is a disturbing blend of wood, stone, and leathery flesh; rather than build it, Mordain grew it. This gruesome structure is unnaturally durable. Its walls are as strong as steel, and it swiftly regenerates damage. It’s impossible to teleport through the walls of Blackroot, and divination magic can’t penetrate its walls. Seen from afar, Blackroot is an imposing structure, but it’s even larger on the inside; there are several extradimensional spaces within the tower, similar to magnificent mansions. Explorers may pass through a door to what should be a small room and instead find themselves in an immense storeroom or a vast menagerie filled with creatures Mordain has created and abandoned. It's possible that Mordain has evolved beyond his humanoid form and that he essentially is Blackroot. If this is the case, he has some degree of awareness spread across the tower—though just as most humans don’t know exactly what’s going on within their bodies at all times, it would take something significant to draw his attention. Lair Actions While within Blackroot Tower, Mordain can take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Mordain can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; he can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Curated Copy. Mordain magically creates a body double of another creature he can see, placing the double in any unoccupied space within his lair; he can’t have more than one double per creature at a time. A double has the same statistics as that creature does at the moment Mordain creates it, except the double has 1 hit point and can’t take actions or reactions on its own. Whenever a creature attacks, casts a spell, makes an opportunity attack, or otherwise acts, it can choose for that action to originate from its space or its double’s space, as if the creature were in that space. A creature can move its double up to the double’s speed on its turn, regardless of whether that creature also moves on its turn. Once on a creature’s turn, if it isn’t incapacitated, it can magically teleport into its double’s space, swapping places with it. Additionally, Mordain can magically hijack a double’s movement by moving a creature’s double up to its speed immediately after that creature’s turn, and/or by using his reaction any time during a creature’s turn to magically teleport that creature into its double’s space, swapping their places. Limitless Self. Mordain magically creates a body double of himself in any unoccupied space within his lair; he can have up to three doubles of himself at a time. These doubles follow the same rules as his other Curated Copy doubles, except he can choose to split his actions between them, and he can’t hijack his own double’s movement. Traits Abiding Flesh. Mordain automatically succeeds on death saving throws, and he can’t be killed by taking damage. Fey Ancestry. Mordain has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to sleep. Fleshweaver’s Immortality. Mordain can’t be reduced to 0 hit points while he has at least one use of Legendary Resistance remaining. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Mordain fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Master Transmuter. Mordain can magically transmute one nonmagical object, which must be no larger than a 5-foot cube, into another nonmagical object of similar size and mass and of equal or lesser value. He must spend 10 minutes handling the object to transform it. i While Mordain is paralyzed, petrified, stunned or unconscious, his speed is reduced to 0 feet, but he is not incapacitated and he can move within his space (for example, he can attack while unconscious, but he can’t move to a different space). If Mordain takes cold or radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function until the end of his next turn. Veil of Nondetection. Mordain can’t be targeted by any divination magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors. Actions Multiattack. Mordain makes one Stinging Tentacle attack and one Unraveling Ray attack. Stinging Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) slashing damage and 11 (2d10) poison damage. Unraveling Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) necrotic damage and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or become cursed. A cursed creature takes 10 necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns. The creature can repeat the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Magnificent Experiment (3/Day). Mordain chooses two creatures he can see within 60 feet of him, subjecting them to a horrific magical transmutation experiment. Each target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) necrotic damage on a failed save and half as much damage on a successful one. If at least one of these targets fails its save, both targets are subjected to the effects of Mordain’s experiment (even if the other target succeeded on its save); these effects can be reversed only with a remove curse spell or similar magic. Mordain chooses one of the following experiments when he uses this action: Horrific Merger. One target is teleported into the same space as the other, and the creatures merge. The creatures act independently but share a space. Whenever one creature moves, the other is dragged with it. Both creatures have resistance to all damage, and each time one of the creatures takes damage, the other creature takes the same amount of damage. Exchange of Self. Each target is polymorphed into a form identical to the other target’s original appearance. The targets exchange their Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores, their Hit Dice, their hit points, and their maximum hit points. Sympathetic Discorporation. The targets alternately blink in and out of existence. Mordain chooses one of the targets, which immediately vanishes from its current plane of existence and appears in the Ethereal Plane, as if affected by the blink spell. At the end of each target’s turn, it must roll a d20. On a roll of 11 or higher, it trades planes with the other target; the target that was on the Ethereal Plane vanishes and appears on the plane the other target was on, and the target that was on another plane vanishes and appears on the Ethereal Plane. When the targets trade planes, each returns to an unoccupied space of its choice that it can see within 10 feet of the space it vanished from. If no unoccupied space is available within that range, it appears in a random unoccupied space nearest to the space it vanished from. These effects are suppressed if both targets are on the Ethereal Plane. Spellcasting. Mordain casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: mage hand, mending, message, prestidigitation 2/day each: animate objects, flesh to stone, mage armor, polymorph, prismatic spray 1/day each: true polymorph, true seeing Legendary Actions Mordain can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Mordain regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Rapid Strike. Mordain makes a Stinging Tentacle or Unraveling Ray attack. Reform Flesh (Costs 2 Actions). Mordain regains 16 (3d10) hit points and gains advantage on Strength, Dexterity and Constitution saving throws until the end of his next turn. Mordain can’t use this legendary action while incapacitated. Fluid Form (Costs 2 Actions). Mordain magically takes the form of another creature until the end of his next turn. The new form can be of any creature with a challenge rating equal to or lower than Mordain’s. Mordain retains his own statistics, except that he adopts the size and speeds of his chosen form. In addition, he can choose one action available to that creature. He uses that action immediately as part of this legendary action, and can use it again as an action on his turn for as long as he retains this chosen form.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 21558
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

