# Morrigna

**description**: Psychopomp Psychopomps are guardians and shepherds of the dead, and work to guide and protect the souls of all perished creatures on their journey through the afterlife. A wide range of these supernatural creatures dwell in the outer planes, favoring neutrally aligned domains and often gathering in the realms of deities associated with the dead. The least of their kind are small and birdlike, while the most deadly appear more like dragons. Morrignas are more humanoid in shape. Morrigna Morrignas serve in particular as bounty hunters and investigators who seek out those who attempt to thwart death or interfere with the natural flow of souls. They dress in flowing spidersilk and wear masks reminiscent of webs, as they consider patient and watchful spiders to be their spiritual kin. Traits Lifesense. The morrigna can sense and pinpoint living creatures within 60 feet as if it had blindsight. Magic Resistance. The morrigna has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. The morrigna regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn. If the morrigna takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the morrigna’s next turn. The morrigna dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Spider Climb. The morrigna can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Innate Spellcasting. The morrigna’s spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: speak with animals, speak with dead, tongues Spellcasting. The morrigna is a 12th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). The morrigna has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, sacred flame, spare the dying, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): bane, bless, cure wounds, healing word 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, calm emotions, see invisibility 3rd level (3 slots): bestow curse, dispel magic, sending 4th level (3 slots): death ward, divination, freedom of movement 5th level (2 slots): mass cure wounds, raise dead 6th level (1 slot): heal Actions Multiattack. The morrigna makes two melee attacks. Staff +2. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (1d6+10) bludgeoning damage, or 14 (1d8+10) if used with two hands, plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage or radiant damage against undead. Web Wrappings. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d10+8) bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage, or radiant damage against undead. On a successful hit, the target is also grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the creature is restrained. The morrigna can attack and grapple up to two separate targets with web wrappings at a time. Change Shape. The morrigna magically polymorphs into a humanoid or beast that has a challenge rating equal to or lesser than its own, or back into its true form. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (the morrigna’s choice). In a new form, the morrigna retains its game statistics and ability to speak, but its AC, movement modes, Strength, Dexterity, and special senses are replaced by those of the new form, and it gains any statistics and capabilities (except class features, legendary actions, and lair actions) that the new form has but that it lacks. Summon Minions. The morrigna summons one giant spider or one swarm of insects (spiders). The summoned creature appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the morrigna and acts as an ally of the morrigna. It remains for 10 minutes, until the morrigna dies, or until the morrigna dismisses it as an action. Reactions Parry. The morrigna adds 5 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the morrigna must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. Wrappings Lash. When the morrigna is attacked by a creature within 10 feet, it makes a web wrappings attack against the attacking creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration (shapechanger)
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

