# Mortyn

**description**: Background Dame Edelgren grew up in an affluent family and was enrolled into an arcane college at an early age. Though she excelled at her studies, Edelgren had a rebellious streak that eventually saw her leave the college ("Some might say ‘expelled,' but the decision was mutual”) and strike out as an adventurer. Throughout her many adventures, Edelgren got to indulge her passion for danger, romance, and treasure, but her true love has remained the same: knowledge. Always with her nose deep in a book or with a scroll tucked under her arm, the theoretical aspect of magic was never far from Edelgren's mind. When an encounter with an orc warband saw two of her companions slain, Edelgren was ready to hang up her staff and retire. The only other survivor was a young orc. Unusually timid for an orc, the boy would likely die within a few days if left to fend for himself. Feeling responsible ("They may have started it, but it was my Fireball spell that ended it”), Dame Edelgren decided to help the youngster to the nearest town. To her surprise and joy, Mort the Merciless (a name that was later eschewed for the more respectable ‘Mortyn') was nothing like a typical orc. Curious, gentle, and kind-hearted, the young orc awakened maternal instincts Edelgren had thought she didn't possess, and she decided to raise him as her own. For his part, Mortyn never knew his mother and his father was a savage tyrant who had nothing but disdain for his son's gentle nature. Though Mortyn mourned the loss of his kin, he also knew that they had deserved the end they got – and he never resented Dame Edelgren and her companions for their part in it. After liquidating most of her treasures, Edelgren fulfilled her dream of opening up a bookstore and scribery . For more than a decade now, the wizard and her adopted orc son have run the bookstore together. Roleplaying Edelgren & Mortyn With a lifetime of adventures and arcane studies under her belt, Edelgren possesses confidence and knowledge in equal measures. She has experienced most that there is to experience ("and if I haven't, I have at least read about it”) and now only seeks to enjoy her retirement in peace. She is also still a powerful wizard, though that isn't immediately apparent from her unassuming appearance and easy-going manner. Mild-mannered and gentle, Mortyn is friendly and slow to anger – defying the perception many may have of orcs. Much more so than Edelgren, Mortyn values courtesy and civility and always uses proper titles. Whatever their differences, Edelgren and Mortyn share a kind heart and a love of the written word. Though Edelgren may tease her adoptive son, there is never any doubt that she loves him deeply – and he her, though her coarse language and off-color jokes often cause him to blush and apologize on her behalf ("my dear mother can be a bit rough around the edges, but I promise you that she means no offense”). The only real issue between the pair is that Dame Edelgren's age is beginning to catch up with her. Less careful than she used to be, Edelgren will occasionally make small mistakes – which can be quite dangerous, when working with magical items. Mortyn has neither the heart nor the courage to tell her, so he instead frantically attempts to correct her mistakes as they're made or steer her away from more perilous tasks ("why not leave the scroll-scribing to me, mother, and focus on your autobiography instead – I can't wait to read how you defeated Braxileres the Pestilence!”)

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Orc)
- Alignment: Lawful Good
- Expansion: 27827
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Wanderer's Guide to Enchanted Emporiums

