# Mothfiend Lord

**description**: While not exactly a fiend, the mothfiend is a creature native to the demiplane of Nightmares, but can also be found in the plane of Shadows. Feared and revered as an omen of doom, worshippers have built statues and monuments based on rare sightings. The mothfiend is depicted as an 8-foot-tall, lean humanoid creature covered with dull-colored, dustlike scales. It has a pair of large, moth-like wings on its back and a long, prehensile proboscis extending from its mouth. A pair of glowing red bug-like eyes and feathery antennae top its head. Omen of Death. Believers have come to regard the appearance of the mothfiend to be a sign of impending tragedy or death. In truth, the mothfiend ventures into the Material Plane to feed on fear and despair. It is often drawn to battlefields and similar places where it can drain the psychic energies of the dying. In most instances, the mothfiend itself causes these tragedies to happen so it can feed. Bringer of Despair. When hunting for victims, the mothfiend flies low through the night sky, searching for lost, afraid, and injured creatures. It can sense such prey up to a range of 300 feet. Once it has targeted a victim, it moves close enough to it until the target is within range of the mothfiend's unnatural aura. Victims quickly become overcome with incapacitating fear. Once a creature has been rendered helpless, the mothfiend pierces the frightened victim's skull with its proboscis and drains it of its brain matter, which carries the heightened psychic energies it feeds on. A Mothfiend Lord's Lair A mothfiend lord's lair is usually found in the demiplane of Nightmares. In rare instances it can make a lair in the Material Plane for as long as the lair is within an area of perpetual gloom or twilight. Standard mothfiends, and other lesser creatures native to the demiplane of Nightmares, usually serve the mothfiend lord as guardians. The challenge rating of a mothfiend lord increases to 12 (8,400 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the mothfiend takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the mothfiend can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The mothfiend targets up to three creatures it can see within 120 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, or the target, along with whatever it is wearing and carrying, is sent to the demiplane of Nightmares. While there, the target is incapacitated. The target remains there until the end of the mothfiend's next turn, at which point the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied and is frightened until the end of its next turn. The mothfiend casts phantasmal killer , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17). The mothfiend doesn’t need to concentrate on the spell. The effect lasts until the mothfiend dies, is incapacitated, or uses this lair action again. The mothfiend targets one frightened creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or its hit points is reduced to 0. On a successful save, the creature takes 13 (3d8) psychic damage. Traits Aura of Despair. A creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of the mothfiend must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, unless the mothfiend is incapacitated. A creature with less than half of its maximum hit points has disadvantage on the saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage and is frightened until the start of its next turn. A frightened creature is incapacitated and must drop whatever it is holding. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the mothfiend's Aura of Despair for the next 24 hours. Detect Despair. The mothfiend can sense the presence and location of any dying or frightened creature within 300 feet of it, regardless of interposing barriers, unless the creature is protected by a mind blank spell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the mothfiend fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The mothfiend makes one Proboscis attack and one Talons attack. It can use Doom Glare in place of its Proboscis attack. Proboscis. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. If the target is frightened, it takes an extra 14 (4d6) psychic damage, its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the psychic damage taken, and the mothfiend regains hit points equal to the psychic damage. This reduction to a creature’s hit point maximum lasts until the creature finishes a long rest or until it is affected by a spell like greater restoration . Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, and if the target is Medium or smaller creature, it is also grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the mothfiend can't use its Talons attack against other targets. Doom Glare. The mothfiend targets one frightened creature it can see within 60 feet of it. If the target can see the mothfiend, it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or take 22 (5d8) psychic damage. Wave of Despair (Recharge 5–6). The mothfiend magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. A creature with less than half of its maximum hit points has disadvantage on the saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 31 (7d8) psychic damage and is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature is incapacitated and must drop whatever it is holding. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. Bonus Actions Shadow Teleport (Recharge 5–6). The mothfiend teleports to an unoccupied space within 60 feet of it, provided that both the space it's teleporting from and its destination are in dim light or darkness. The destination need not be within line of sight. Legendary Actions The mothfiend can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The mothfiend regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Flyby. The mothfiend flies up to half its flying speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Talons. The mothfiend makes a Talons attack. Doom (Costs 2 Actions). The mothfiend makes a Proboscis attack or uses Doom Glare.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

