# Mummy, Peat

**description**: Wearing tattered and muddy clothing, the creature looks like a common villager who ran into trouble in the swamp, though its leathery skin and dead eyes betray its undead state. Peat mummies are the undead remains of innocents who were murdered by drowning in a swamp. The mud of the bog preserves the body while the unquiet spirit festers within it. The resulting mummy is a rage-fueled shell that seeks vengeance against the people it blames for its condition. Since becoming a peat mummy can take decades, the unfortunates who suffer the creature's wrath are often unaware of its existence. Murderers of Murderers. If the parties responsible for the peat mummy's condition are still alive at its return, the undead horror vents its fury on them. Peat mummies are completely single-minded. They feel no remorse about collateral damage, and they always take the most direct route to their prey, even if it brings them into conflict with others. If a peat mummy can't find its killer, it goes on a killing spree that ceases at night, when it returns to its muddy grave, only to begin anew the following day. Even the most talented necromancers can't reason with an enraged peat mummy on the killing path. Bog Melt. A creature afflicted with the peat mummy's bog melt curse can't regain hp, and its hp maximum is reduced by 7 (2d6) for every 24 hours that elapse. In addition, when the cursed creature starts its turn within 30 feet of a creature it can see, it has a 50 percent chance of going into a rage until the end of its turn. While in a rage, the cursed creature must attack the nearest creature. If no creature is near enough to move to and attack, the cursed creature stalks off in a random direction, seeking a target for its rage. The curse lasts until it is lifted by a remove curse spell or similar magic. If the curse reduces the creature's hp maximum to 0, the creature dies, and its body dissolves into a viscous puddle of goo. Carnivorous creatures with an Intelligence of 3 or lower that can see or smell the goo must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or drink the goo. After 1 minute, the creature's Bite, Claw, or Slam attack becomes infused with the curse, and any creature hit by that attack must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with bog melt. Noxious Slurry. A creature that hits the peat mummy with a melee weapon attack that deals slashing damage while within 5 feet of the mummy must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of its next turn as noxious fumes and liquefied flesh spray from the wound. Undead Nature. The peat mummy doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The peat mummy makes two Rabid Bite attacks. If the mummy hits one creature with both attacks, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with bog melt (see the Bog Melt trait). Rabid Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

