# Muraenid

**description**: Emerging from a crevice in the reef, this yellowish, serpentine creature is covered in a leopard's dark spots. Its small eyes shine with intelligence, and its teeth promise malice. Muraenids are malicious, intelligent moray eels with a touch of magical prowess. They make their homes in vast networks of tunnels and chambers inside coral reefs and the walls of ocea n trenches. Ancient Aboleth Minions. Eons ago, the muraenids served the aboleth when the aberrations ruled over the oceans as if they were gods. When aboleth domination declined with the growing influence of true deities, the muraenids seized their chance at freedom. Pledging allegiance to the new gods of the deep, the muraenids escaped aboleth control. To this day, the aboleth have neither forgotten nor forgiven the muraenids' disloyalty. Devout Worshipers. Free from enslavement, the muraenids seek to conquer and enslave the ocean's inhabitants in the name of their dark gods. This brings them into frequent conflict with merfolk, aquatic elves, and sahuagin. Muraenids sacrifice captives in their cavernous coral cathedrals to honor the demon lord Chemosh (see Creature Codex ), water-dwelling old ones, and other sinister gods o f the seas. New Lords of the Deep. Although the muraenids' telekinetic powers allow them to manipulate objects, they also dominate aquatic beasts as servants, especially many-armed giant octopuses. Ships sailing near reefs under muraenid control sometimes come under attack by a muraenid pack and its giant octopus minions, grabbing those on deck and pulling them beneath the waves. Pack Tactics. The muraenid has advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the muraenid's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't inca pacitated. Speak with Aquatic Creatures. The muraenid can communicate with Beasts and Monstrosities that have a swimming speed as if they shared a language. Water Breathing. The muraenid can breathe only u nderwater. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the muraenid can Bite only the grappled creature and has advantage on attack rolls to do so. Telekinetic Grip. One creature the muraenid can see within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be moved up to 30 feet in a direction of the muraenid's choice and be restrained until the start of the muraenid's n ext turn. If the muraenid targets an object weighing 300 pounds or less that isn't being worn or carried, the object is moved up to 30 feet in a direction of the muraenid's choice. The muraenid can also use this action to exert fine control on objects, such as manipulating a simple tool or opening a door or a container. Lord of the Fishes (1/Day). One Beast with a swimming speed that the muraenid can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed by the muraenid for 1 day, or until the muraenid dies or is more than 1 mile from the target. The charmed target obeys the muraenid's verbal or telepathic commands, can't take reactions, and can telepathically communicate with the muraenid over any distance, provided the two are on the same plane of existence. If the target suffers any harm, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

