# Mutant (template)

**description**: The mutant template can be applied to any living creature. It keeps its statistics, except as follows: Challenge. Applying the mutant template may alter a creature's Challenge level. Usually its Challenge will remain the same, but increasing one or more of its attack bonus, damage, number of attacks, or hit points are likely to raise its Challenge by +1. It is also possible to lower a creature's Challenge, for instance, by making a creature blind without giving it compensating features. Losing the ability to use weapons or armor may alter its AC. Type. A mutant gains the mutant tag. A mutant that was a beast becomes a monstrosity. Languages. A mutant that speaks also speaks Deep Speech. Deformities. Each mutant has one of the following deformities. It can take a second deformity to gain an additional mutation (detailed below). Blind. The mutant can't see and gains the blinded condition permanently unless it possesses another sense to compensate (such as blindsight). Deaf. The mutant can't hear and gains the deafened condition permanently. Fragile. When the mutant fails a Constitution save, until the end of its next turn it cannot make reactions and can take either an action or a bonus action but not both. Fractured Mind. When the mutant fails a Wisdom save, it is incapacitated for 1 round. Lame. The mutant's stunted legs reduce its base speed by 10 feet. This deformity can't be taken if the mutant's base speed is already slower than 20 feet. Light Sensitivity. While in bright light, the mutant has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Mindless. The mutant has an Intelligence of 1 and a Charisma no higher than 2. The mutant does not use weapons, armor, and other equipment, and has no proficiencies that rely on Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. This deformity could prevent the mutant from being eligible to take certain special abilities, at the GM's discretion. Misshapen. Humanoid mutants only. The mutant can't wear armor (including magic armor) fashioned for humanoid creatures. Armor made to fit the mutant costs twice as much. This will likely lower the mutant's AC and Challenge Rating. Poor Ability. The mutant gains -2 to one ability score. Spasms. When the mutant fails a Dexterity save, it is restrained for 1 round. Useless Arm. One of the mutant's arms is malformed and useless. If it has the Multiattack action, it loses one attack with that limb. It does not lose an attack that involves either or both arms, like an attack with both claws. This may lower the mutant's average damage and Challenge Rating. Vulnerability. The mutant is vulnerable to one energy type. If the base creature has innate resistance or immunity to that energy type, it loses those abilities. Mutations. The mutant gains a number of mutations based on its original Challenge level. Challenge Mutations 1 to 4 1 mutation 5 to 9 2 mutations 10 to 14 3 mutations 15 to 19 4 mutations 20+ 5 mutations @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatBlock1, li.StatBlock1, div.StatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1 Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.StatBlock1Char {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1 Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;} Several of these mutations grant Multiattack. If the base creature already has multiattack, these options may replace an existing Multiattack or provide a different set of options, as appropriate to the creature's limbs and attacks. If the creature wields weapons, a wielded weapon can replace a claw or slam attack associated with that limb. Armored. The mutant's AC increases by 1 if it has natural armor. If it has no natural armor, it gains natural armor and its AC becomes 12 + its Dexterify modifier. This ability can be taken multiple times. Changes to AC can affect the mutant's CR. Bulbous Eyes. The mutant gains darkvision to a range of 60 feet. Celerity. The mutant gains advantage on initiative checks. As a bonus action, the mutant can make a single weapon attack, the Dash action, or the Disengage action; it can do this once until this features recharges on a 5 or 6. This is likely to increase its CR. Echolocation. The mutant has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet as long as it is not deafened. Extra Arm. The mutant has an extra arm. If the mutant has an attack that uses either or both arms, such as an attack with claws, that attack's damage increases by one weapon die. The mutant also gains Multiattack: it makes a melee weapon or natural attack with each arm or forelimb that is able. It may use two arms to attack with a two-handed weapon instead. This ability can be taken multiple times, adding an arm each time. This may affect the mutant's CR. Feral. The mutant gains a bite attack that does 1d6 piercing damage and gains a claw attack that does 1d6 slashing damage for each arm or forelimb. If the creatures is Tiny, Small, or Medium, it uses the better of its Strength or Dexterity to calculate its attack bonus and damage bonus. If it is Large or bigger, it uses Strength, and the attack deals an additional die of weapon damage per size category bigger than Medium. If it already has these attacks, their damage improves by one additional weapon die. The creature gains Multiattack: it attacks once with its bite and once with its claws. This feature will usually increase the mutant's CR. Gills. The mutant can breathe air and water and has a swim speed equal to its base speed. Increased Speed. One of the mutant's speeds increases by 10 feet. If this mutation is taken multiple times, apply it to a different speed each time. Innate Spellcasting. The mutant gains innate spellcasting. The mutant's innate spellcasting ability is the highest of Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. It can innately cast one of the following spells, requiring no material components, at will unless noted otherwise: charm person, dimension door (3/day), dominate monster, heat metal, mirror image, modify memory (1/day), shatter, shocking grasp, sleep, suggestion, telekinesis . The mutant can choose only spells with a level no higher than its original CR. This ability can be taken multiple times, choosing a different spell each time. Leaping. The mutant's long jump is up to 20 feet and its high jump is up to 10 feet, with or without a running start. Mental Armor. As long as the mutant isn't incapacitated, its Armor Class is equal to 10 + its Dexterity modifier + its Intelligence modifier. It can substitute Charisma or Wisdom for Intelligence if it has innate spellcasting or psionic powers that use those abilities. Changes to AC can affect its CR. Powerful Ability. One of the mutant's ability scores increases by 2. If this increases its attack bonus, damage roll, hit points, or the saving throw DC of one of its features, this may increase its CR. Regeneration. The mutant regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. This can affect its CR. Resistance. The mutant has resistance to a single damage type. This special ability can be selected multiple times, for the same or different types. Selecting it twice for one energy type grants immunity instead. Resistance or immunity to two or more of bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage will usually increase its CR. Rugged. The mutant gains resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. This may increase the mutant's CR. Sealed Mind. The mutant is immune to being charmed or frightened and gains resistance to psychic damage. Slam. The mutant gains a slam attack that deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage. If the creatures is Tiny, Small, or Medium, it uses the better of its Strength or Dexterity to calculate its attack bonus and damage bonus. If it is Large or bigger, it uses Strength, and the attack deals an additional die of weapon damage per size category bigger than Medium. If it already has these attacks, their damage improves by one additional weapon die. The creature gains Multiattack: it makes a slam attack with each arm or forelimb. This feature will usually increase the mutant's CR. Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the mutant must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. The DC is equal to 8 + the creature's proficiency bonus + the creature's Constitution modifier. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the mutant's stench for 24 hours. Telepathy. The mutant has telepathy with a range of 100 feet and can innately cast detect thoughts at will, without using a spell slot or material components. Its spellcasting ability is its highest of Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. Wings. The mutant grows wings, gaining a fly speed of 40 feet. The mutant can take this mutation a second time to gain the ability to hover. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatBlock1, li.StatBlock1, div.StatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1 Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.StatBlock1Char {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1 Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Expansion: 32483

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

