# Myconid Sovereign

**description**: Myconids Myconids are intelligent, ambulatory fungi that live in the Underdark, seek enlightenment, and deplore violence. If approached peacefully, myconids gladly provide shelter or allow safe passage through their colonies. Circles and Melds. The largest myconid in a colony is its sovereign, which presides over one or more social groups called circles. A circle consists of twenty or more myconids that work, live, and meld together. A meld is a form of communal meditation that allows myconids to transcend their dull subterranean existence. The myconids’ rapport spores bind the participants into a group consciousness. Hallucination spores then induce a shared dream that provides entertainment and social interaction. Myconids consider melding to be the purpose of their existence. They use it in the pursuit of higher consciousness, collective union, and spiritual apotheosis. Myconids also use their rapport spores to communicate telepathically with other sentient creatures. Myconid Reproduction. Like other fungi, myconids reproduce by mundane sporing. They carefully control their spores’ release to avoid overpopulation. Spore Servant Template A spore servant is any Large or smaller creature brought back to life by the animating spores of a myconid sovereign. A creature that was never flesh and blood to begin with (such as a construct, elemental, ooze, plant, or undead) can’t be turned into a spore servant. The following characteristics change or are added to a creature that becomes a spore servant. Retained Characteristics. The servant retains its Armor Class, hit points, Hit Dice, Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, vulnerabilities, resistances, and immunities. Lost Characteristics. The servant loses its original saving throw and skill bonuses, special senses, and special traits. It loses any action that isn’t Multiattack or a melee weapon attack that deals bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage. If it has an action or a melee weapon attack that deals some other type of damage, it loses the ability to deal damage of that type, unless the damage comes from a piece of equipment, such as a magic item. Type. The servant’s type is plant, and it loses any tags. Alignment. The servant is unaligned. Speed. Reduce all the servant’s speeds by 10 feet, to a minimum of 5 feet. Ability Scores. The servant’s ability scores change as follows: Int 2 (−4), Wis 6 (−2), Cha 1 (−5). Senses. The servant has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet, and it is blind beyond this radius. Condition Immunities. The servant can’t be blinded, charmed, frightened, or paralyzed. Languages. The servant loses all known languages, but it responds to orders given to it by myconids using rapport spores. The servant gives highest priority to orders received from the most powerful myconid. Attacks. If the servant has no other means of dealing damage, it can use its fists or limbs to make unarmed strikes. On a hit, an unarmed strike deals bludgeoning damage equal to 1d4 + the servant’s Strength modifier, or, if the servant is Large, 2d4 + its Strength modifier. Sample Spore Servant The Quaggoth Spore Servant statistics use a quaggoth as the base creature and can be used as a spore servant reference. Traits Distress Spores : When the myconid takes damage, all other myconids within 240 feet of it can sense its pain. Sun Sickness : While in sunlight, the myconid has disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws. The myconid dies if it spends more than 1 hour in direct sunlight. Actions Multiattack : The myconid uses either its Hallucination Spores or its Pacifying Spores, then makes a fist attack. Fist : Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (3d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (3d4) poison damage. Animating Spores (3/Day) : The myconid targets one corpse of a humanoid or a Large or smaller beast within 5 feet of it and releases spores at the corpse. In 24 hours, the corpse rises as a spore servant. The corpse stays animated for 1d4 + 1 weeks or until destroyed, and it can’t be animated again in this way. Hallucination Spores : The myconid ejects spores at one creature it can see within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. The poisoned target is incapacitated while it hallucinates. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Pacifying Spores : The myconid ejects spores at one creature it can see within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success. Rapport Spores (3/Day) : A 30-foot radius of spores extends from the myconid. These spores can go around corners and affect only creatures with an Intelligence of 2 or higher that aren’t undead, constructs, or elementals. Affected creatures can communicate telepathically with one another while they are within 30 feet of each other. The effect lasts for 1 hour.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: plant
- Source: MM1
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 2
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Monster Manual

