# Nagahydra

**description**: The nagahydra is a fearsome monstrosity that appears as a 50-foot long, five-headed naga. Multicolored, reticulated scales cover the nagahydra’s 3-foot diameter body, with singular hues branching out to each of the five heads - bright crimson, deep purple, emerald green, onyx black, and golden yellow. Fiery-orange spines line the back of its serpentine body. Each head of the nagahydra can be male or female and has its own personality and motivations. The heads may at times argue and bicker with one another, but never to the point of attacking each other. Cruel Overlord. While not inherently evil, the nagahydra is still a cruel, selfish, and vicious monster. It relishes hunting lesser beings for food, stalking its prey through ancient forests and dismal swamps. It enjoys being worshiped by those who seek its blessing and security. In return, the nagahydra aids and protects its subjects from hostile creatures, sickness, and natural calamities. However, the nagahydra demands sacrifice and tribute from its followers, punishing those who fail to do so severely. Multiple Heads. The nagahydra is a formidable threat in battle. It can attack with all heads and its powerful tail. Each of its heads is capable of delivering a deadly, venomous bite. Although its heads can be severed, the nagahydra magically regrows them in short order. Multiheaded Spellcaster. What makes the nagahydra very dangerous is each head’s ability to cast and maintain concentration of its spells. If the nagahydra is forced to make a Constitution saving throw to maintain concentration on any of its spells, it doesn't automatically lose concentration of all its spells. Instead, each head that has an active spell requiring concentration must make that saving throw. If a nagahydra anticipates a challenging encounter, it will protect itself by casting both greater invisibility and stoneskin . If it expects enemy mages, it will also cast globe of invulnerability to prevent enemy counterspells and the possible targeted dispelling of the naga's protective spells. A Nagahydra's Lair A nagahydra haunts gloomy forests, primeval jungles, and dismal swamps. It makes its lair in the overgrown ruins of ancient cities, with the outskirts protected by its spells, magical traps, and minions. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the nagahydra takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the nagahydra can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row. The nagahydra causes spectral snakes to appear from a point it can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature within 20 feet of that point take 7 (2d6) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned until the end of its next turn. While poisoned in this way, the creature has disadvantage on all saving throws. The nagahydra targets up to five creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of its next turn. The nagahydra regrows one of its heads. Regional Effects The region containing a nagahydra’s lair is warped by the nagahydra’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: The land within 6 miles of the lair takes twice as long as normal to traverse, since the vegetation grow thick and twisted. Within 1 mile of its lair, the nagahydra ignores movement impediments and damage from normal plants. The plants remove themselves from the nagahydra’s path. Fog lightly obscures the land within 6 miles of the lair. If the nagahydra dies, these effects fade over the course of 1-10 days. Immortal Nature. A naga doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the nagahydra fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Multiple Heads. The nagahydra has five heads. While it has more than one head, it has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Whenever the nagahydra takes 50 or more damage in a single turn, one of its heads dies (determined randomly). If all its heads die, the nagahydra dies. At the end of its turn, it grows one head that died since its last turn, unless it has taken fire damage since its last turn. The nagahydra regains 30 hit points each time it regrows a head in this way. Multiheaded Spellcaster. Each head of the nagahydra can cast and maintain concentration of its own spell. If the nagahydra is forced to make a Constitution saving throw to maintain concentration on any of its spells, each head that has an active spell requiring concentration must make that saving throw. Rejuvenation. If it dies, the nagahydra returns to life in 1d6 days and regains all its hit points. Only a wish spell can prevent this trait from functioning. Reactive Heads. For each head the nagahydra has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Spell Penetration. When the naga casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell, treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Wakeful. While the nagahydra sleeps, at least one of its heads is awake. Actions Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and it must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be pushed horizontally up to 10 feet away and be knocked prone. Spellcasting. The naga casts one of the following spells, requiring only verbal components and Charisma as the spellcasting abilit (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): At will: fire bolt (3d10), mage hand, prestidigitation, sword burst (3d6), true strike 2/day each: counterspell, dispel magic, fireball, misty step, shield 1/day each: cone of cold, chain lightning, dominate person, forcecage, globe of invulnerability, greater invisibility,* maddening darkness, polymorph, stoneskin* *The nagahydra casts these spells on itself before combat. Legendary Actions The nagahydra can take as many legendary actions as it has heads, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The nagahydra regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. The nagahydra’s legendary action options are associated with its five naga heads (a bite and a cast spell for each). Once the nagahydra chooses a legendary action option for one of its heads, it can’t choose another one associated with that head until the start of its next turn. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The nagahydra uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

