# Namonti Benthonir

**description**: Endemic to deepest parts of the ocean, benthonir are transparent humanoids with an undifferentiated biology. Each drop of the condensed slime that makes up a benthonir's body is interchangeable with the rest so long as enough of the body remains viable to maintain life. This extends to the beginning of their lives, with vast fields of benthonir buds growing on the walls of ocean trenches. Kraken Cultists. Vast schools of benthonir gather in the trenches. There they worship the krakens they believe created them from the lesser creatures of the trenches and, at the krakens' behest, wage war on the asquenti realms above. In their pantheon, the krakens only bend knee to the even greater Vulnatatoa. Mutations. With their great numbers and ever-shifting form, it comes as no surprise that the benthonir are susceptible to a wide variety of mutations. Few human settlers of Melefoni have seen a normal benthonir and fewer still recognize them as kin to the mutants who can be found on the surface. Thankfully for surface dwellers, the benthonir can only bud in the trenches, leaving the surface as yet uninvaded. Fire Shark benthonirs have red coloration that gathers in scales over their transparent flesh. This appearance grants them advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks while in the Red Kelp Jungle. They are also immune to fire rather than cold and often have multiple arms. Human Born benthonirs look completely human but lose fast healing and their swim speed, instead gaining a normal 30-foot land speed. They can suppress their bite, claw, and morphic form as a bonus action. Using these abilities can reveal their true nature, but otherwise detecting their benthoniri biology requires advanced scientific facilities and a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Nature) check. Human Mimic benthonirs look like incomplete human beings, wrinkled as their flesh constantly melts and reforms, but could be mistaken for elderly humans in poor light. They have a land speed of 30 feet and a swim speed of 20 feet. The benthonirs of Midron, including the Sisters of the Dark Spire, are of this type. Namonti benthonirs look like asquenti and can only be distinguished with a cursory medical examination (Wisdom (Medicine) DC 10) or scoring a critical hit on them in combat. They also possess the base asquenti pincer, sonic lance, and sonic pincer attacks rather than their claw and bite. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyIndent, li.BodyCopyIndent, div.BodyCopyIndent {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent Char"; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.BodyCopyIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

