# Necrotic Ooze

**description**: A relentless creature that instills dread in those who stumble upon one, the necrotic ooze is an amorphous horror that exists solely to consume living matter, leaving only death and decay in its wake. This malevolent entity moves with a sinister purpose, crawling over surfaces and slithering through crevices and cubbies as it silently stalks its prey. Pungent Blob. Visually, the necrotic ooze is a grotesque sight to behold. It lacks any distinct form, appearing as a shapeless mass of greenish black, viscous goo. Occasionally, a corpse's face or a skull will pop from its surface, an expression of fear written on on its face, before getting sucked back into the writhing sludge. Pseudopods protrude from its formless body, allowing it to reach out and ensnare victims. Accompanying it is a vile, repulsive stench that permeates the air around the ooze. The putrid, nauseating odor has a heavy, sickly sweet undertone that mingles with an underlying rancid aroma that reminds you of rotting fish and decomposing viscera. Desiccating Touch. When the necrotic ooze comes into contact with any living creature, the results are devastating. As its pseudopods adhere to the victim's flesh, the life force within the unfortunate victim is swiftly drained away. The necrotic ooze's touch causes flesh to wither and rot. The decay spreads rapidly, consuming the victim's body until nothing remains but dust. Grim Origins. A necrotic ooze's emergence is closely tied to areas where death and necromancy have been heavily involved. It is thought to arise from a convergence of negative energies, drawing sustenance from the residual necrotic forces present in its surroundings. These areas may include ancient burial grounds, battlefields, or sites where occult rituals were once performed. The commonly encountered necrotic ooze measures around 6 feet in diameter. However, there have been reports of exceptionally large specimens reaching diameters of up to 20 feet. Traits Amorphous. The ooze can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Detect Life. The ooze can magically sense the presence of creatures up to 60 feet away that aren’t Undead or Constructs. It knows the general direction they’re in but not their exact locations. Necrotic Aura. At the start of each of the ooze’s turns, each creature within 5 feet of it takes 3 (1d6) necrotic damage. A creature that touches the ooze or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 3 (1d6) necrotic damage. Undead and Constructs are immune to this aura. Spider Climb. The ooze can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Stench. Any creature other than a necrotic ooze that starts its turn within 5 feet of the ooze must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the creature’s next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the Stench of all necrotic oozes for 1 hour. Actions Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 12). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, the ooze can automatically hit the target with its pseudopod, and the ooze can't make Pseudopod attacks on other targets. In addition, if the target is a creature that isn't Undead or a Construct, it must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the ooze regains hit points equal to half that amount, rounded down. While its hit points is reduced, the target deals only half damage with weapon attacks. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Ooze
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

