# Necrotech Reaver

**description**: Wooden scaffolding holds a patchwork undead together, its top half that of a frost giant and its lower half that of a stone giant. Long, bladed chains hang from its arms and torso. Necrotech reavers are made from the parts of multiple giants. The gaps between the disparate bodies are bridged with enchanted timber and iron reinforcements, then bladed chains are attached to the creature's arms and torso. While acquiring the titanic corpses necessary to make a reaver is difficult, the process of stitching them together is relatively simple. Aggressive use of mundane components in the scaffolding and reinforcement allows even neophyte necromancers to participate in their construction and maintenance, while the relative disposability of parts means that a necrotech can be repaired and re-animated as long as dead giants are available as raw material. Necromantic Vanguard. A necrotech reaver is a specialist necrotech construct deployed in the vanguard of undead armies. Their patchwork construction means that they require regular maintenance or risk falling apart in the heat of battle. Their chains can pull down city walls, rip through buildings, and shred entire formations of soldiers, while their sheer bulk allows them to shrug off blows. Siege Monster. The necrotech reaver deals double damage to objects and structures. Undead Nature. The necrotech reaver doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Unstable Footing. The necrotech reaver has disadvantage on saving throws against being knocked prone. Actions Multiattack. The necrotech reaver makes two Chain Lash attacks. Chain Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) slashing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15). The reaver has four chains, each of which can grapple only one target. Bladed Sweep (Recharge 5-6). The necrotech reaver swings its chains in a wide arc. Each creature within 15 feet of the reaver must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 21 (6d6) slashing damage and is knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't knocked prone. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is pushed up to 15 feet away from the reaver and knocked prone. Thunderer The undead elephant has had the top of its skull and spine carved out, replaced with an enormous ballista of polished brass. Swirling purple energy condenses atop the ballista, forming the core of a terrible magical projectile. Necrotech thunderers are dedicated undead siege weapons. Their bodies are built from elephants, triceratops, or similarly massive quadrupeds, while their skulls and spines are carved open to make room for ballistae carved from slain treants. A thunderer's body is then hardened against necrotic energy, allowing it to channel explosive bolts of necromantic magic through the siege weapon built into its spine. Dedicated Artillery. Thunderers are expensive and poor at defending themselves in melee. As a result, they are deployed with sizable bodyguards capable of holding back the enemy. Thunderers are often priority targets for elite teams working against undead armies, because their necromantic ballistae can quickly reduce formations of lesser troops to rotting flesh or rip jagged holes in fortifications.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

