# Nemean Lion

**description**: The Nemean Lion is a vicious beast of legend that settled in the wilderness of Nemea. It was widely known as an invincible beast, for no mortal weapon could cut through its fur and there was no armor that could withstand its teeth and claws. As the first of the Twelve Labors, Heracles was sent on a hunt by his cousin, King Eurystheus, to bring an end to the terrifying beast. This task was clearly meant to be both the first and last labor, since on paper victory was nigh impossible. However, the demigod son of Zeus claimed victory. Unable to break through its hide, Heracles wrestled the giant lion until he was able to strangle it to death, an impossible feat for any mortal other than himself. In the end, the hero returned to his cousin’s castle, wearing the pelt of the lion as decoration, having skinned it with its own claws. However, as of late there have been rumors and sightings of a vicious beast out in the wild. One that arrows, blades and spears have had no luck with. Impenetrable Hide. Conventional weapons, even those blessed with magical power are almost useless against the Nemean Lion. Even certain magics prove ineffective against its physical body, particularly those of an elemental nature. Merciless Claws. When it comes to the offensive the Nemean Lion will be quick to break through mundane armor and shields with its claws and teeth, making defense a difficult compromise for those unprepared to face this legendary foe. A terrible beast, driven by wrath and hunger. The bare minimum needed to bring it down is a hero. The next time it appears we better have one around. -Pyrrhos Dimitriou, Cleric of Athena The Nemean Lion as a Mythic Encounter The Nemean Lion numbers amongst one of the most dangerous and difficult opponents for any band of heroes to defeat. If you wish to make an encounter with this beast truly legendary, the Nemean Lion might use its Feral Resilience trait. The lion calls upon a reserve of strength and willpower just as it appears to be on death's door. When this happens, the Nemean Lion can choose one of its mythic actions when it uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when the Nemean Lion uses its Feral Resilience trait: As the Lion Falls The Nemean Lion is close to its end. Formerly undamaged by anyone but the greatest hero in the history of this continent, the beast seems almost ready to drop for good. However, the bane of Nemea lets out an earth-shattering roar. The air becomes visibly distorted, pebbles and rubble around it are sent flying and the echo of several wild animals escaping in fright comes over everyone's ears. A shining gleam in its eye, a look of spite directed not only to the mortals who have tried to slay it, but at the immortal hero who caused its first death. Willpower and revenge fueling its soul, the lion roars once more and prepares to pounce its prey. Fighting the Nemean Lion as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 23 creatures in one encounter. Award a party an additional 50,000 XP (100,000 XP total) for defeating it after its Feral Resilience activates. Sacred Beasts of the Land Throughout the ages the world has existed, unique animals have made themselves known in legends. Stronger, faster, more majestic and, perhaps, even a little magical. The most well known of these creatures are the Sacred Beasts of the Land. This title refers to all the unique animals associated with the Twelve Labors of Heracles. Polymorphing into a Sacred Beast Players attempting to use Polymorph to become any of the Sacred Beasts of the Land will find that they cannot replicate the magic properties of the creature in question. For example, they will not be able to use the innate spellcasting feature, legendary actions or legendary resistances. Additionally, only players who have substantial experience with the creature in question should be able to attempt such a transformation. An example of such experience could be the slaying of the beast, as well as the creation of a friendly bond, but it must involve personal experience from the character. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the lion fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Feral Resilience (Recharges after a short or long Rest). If the lion would be reduced to 0 hit points, its current hit point total instead resets to 350 hit points, and it regains any expended uses of Legendary Resistance. Additionally, the lion can now use the options in the “Mythic Actions” section for 1 hour. Keen Smell. The lion has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Magic Weapons. The lion's weapon attacks are magical. Invulnerable Hide, Soft Insides. All the resistances and immunities of the lion only work on the outside of its body. If someone attempts to make an attack roll aiming at the inside of the Nemean Lion's mouth (with a -5 penalty to any attack rolls) or successfully does damage while being swallowed by it, all resistances and immunities are ignored. Siege Monster. The lion deals double damage to objects and structures. Pounce. If the lion moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 21 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the lion can make one bite attack against it as a bonus action. Running Leap. With a 10-foot running start, the lion can jump up to 50 feet in a straight line. Actions Multiattack. The lion can make one bite or swallow attack and two claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 22 (3d8 + 9) bludgeoning damage. The target is grappled, escape DC 20. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 20ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d6 + 9) piercing damage. Swallow. The lion makes one bite attack against a medium or smaller target it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. While swallowed, the target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the Nemean lion, and it takes 6d6 (6d6) acid damage at the start of each of the lion's turns. The lion can have only one creature swallowed at a time. If the lion takes 30 damage or more on a single turn from the swallowed creature, the lion must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate creature, which falls prone in a space within 10 feet of the lion. If the lion dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 15 feet of movement, exiting prone. Legendary Actions Nemean Lion can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Nemean Lion regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The lion can move up to its speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. The lion can make either a bite or claw attack. Detect. The lion makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Mythic Actions If the Nemean Lion’s Feral Resilience trait has activated in the last hour, it can use the options below as legendary actions. Barrage. The lion can make a bite and a claw attack or two claw attacks. Thundering Roar (Costs 2 Actions). Each creature within 120 feet of the lion that can hear its roar must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, if the creature fails the saving throw then they take 39 (6d12) thunder damage and are knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

