# Neo-Otyugh

**description**: The neo-otyugh is larger, more cunning, and far more dangerous when compared to the normal otyugh. Its bloated 15-foot diameter body has a disgusting, rubbery hide that constantly oozes bile. The smell is so horrendous it would cause anyone near enough to smell it to vomit and retch. Meat Shield. After the neo-otyugh grabs a victim caught by its tentacle, the foul creature can use it as a shield against an impending melee attack. If successful, the attack would hit the unlucky victim instead of the otyugh. Traits Garbage Camouflage. The otyugh has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in garbage-filled or sewer terrain. Limited Telepathy. The otyugh can magically transmit simple messages and images to any creature within 120 feet of it that can understand a language. This form of telepathy doesn't allow the receiving creature to telepathically respond. Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the otyugh must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the otyugh's Stench for 24 hours. Actions Multiattack. The otyugh makes one Bite attack and two Tentacle attacks. It can replace two Tentacle attacks with Tentacle Slam. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8 +5) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw against disease or become poisoned until the disease is cured. Every 24 hours that elapse, the target must repeat the saving throw, reducing its hit point maximum by 5 (1d10) on a failure. The disease is cured on a success. The target dies if the disease reduces its hit point maximum to 0. This reduction to the target's hit point maximum lasts until the disease is cured. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) piercing damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 15) and restrained until the grapple ends. The otyugh has two tentacles, each of which can grapple one target. Tentacle Slam. The otyugh slams creatures grappled by it into each other or a solid surface. Each creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 19 (4d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of the otyugh's next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Reactions Meat Shield. The otyugh uses its grappled victims as a shield against melee attacks. If the grappled creature is Medium or smaller, the otyugh adds 3 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. If the grappled creature is Large, the otyugh adds 5 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. If the attack misses the otyugh as a result, the melee attack instead hits the grappled creature. To do so, the otyugh must see the attacker and must be grappling with a creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

