# Nightmare Dragon

**description**: Content Warning: This article is about an evil dragon that tortures their victims with nightmares. Dragons are the subject of cultural fascination, a focal point for myth, religion, art, and arcana. The awe of their power and mystery comes with an equal portion of fear, and it is this terror that is the nightmare dragon’s genesis and feast. Nightmare dragons are liminal beings, all but nonexistent in the physical world—but nevertheless capable of inflicting physical harm. There’s no singular description of a nightmare dragon. Like nightmares themselves, they constantly warp and shift, twisting to encompass the amalgamated fright of its victims. A creature of dreams made manifest, a nightmare dragon’s appearance and behavior can resemble imagination and inaccurate myths as much as any flesh-and-blood drake. To behold a nightmare dragon is to witness their very anatomy writhe under your regard, no detail quite the same from one moment to the next. Birthed by Fear Nightmare dragons are psychic beings, born from other creatures’ fear of dragons. Instances of common fright won’t spawn a nightmare dragon; the circumstances that birth these wyrms are unique in their origin and intensity. Examples of recorded nightmare dragon inceptions can be found on the Nightmare Dragon Origins table. The confluence of such intense emotion in unusual circumstances takes root in the Astral Plane, creating an entity that eagerly gluts itself on the terrors and anxieties of its original hosts. A nightmare dragon is created full-grown and possesses an ancient dragon’s greed and appetite for victims’ fear. They quickly outgrow the ability to sustain themself on the fright of their unwitting creators and turn to invading the dreams of their creators’ neighbors and kin. Nightmare Dragon Origins d6 Dragon Origin 1 A city is harried by night terrors in the wake of a recent dragon attack. 2 A sleeping god dreams of ancient dragons. 3 A once-in-a-generation artist channels their fear of dragons into their breathtaking work. 4 An alien entity can't help the way their phobia of dragons is expressed through their psionic powers. 5 A uniquely powerful child is convinced their terrible dreams of draconic destruction are real events. 6 An old dragon slayer is haunted by their own guilt. Names and Personality Nightmare dragons are a reflection of the fears held by their original hosts and the phobias of their prey. As their sense of self develops, they take on a name that reflects those specific fears. You can use the Nightmare Dragon Names table to get inspiration for a nightmare dragon’s name. Nightmare Dragon Names d4 Dragon Name Origin 1 A name based on nightmare images, such as Blood Under the Door, or The Empty Room. 2 The name of a real dragon that historically or recently terrorized the local community, like Mirsyth the Wind-Scourge 3 The name a child has bestowed on them, like Night Teeth or Mister Clix 4 A mimicked sound captured from dreams; [A Scream from Below], [The Fles Rips Wetly] The Nightmare Villain Tyrant or terror, the nightmare dragon can act as an interesting primary or secondary villain in a high-level campaign. They could be the cause or one of the symptoms of a broader series of psionic events or the most significant consequence of some unnatural disaster. Even powerful characters have fears and nightmares of their own, fueled by past horrors or future dangers, and a villain composed of dread itself is the perfect way to emphasize that no amount of powerful spells or magic weapons can ensure their safety. You should discuss themes of dread and terror with your players before introducing a nightmare dragon in your game, including what topics are hard or soft limits for each player. It’s important for the players to be comfortable so they can be having fun even as their characters are frightened and panic-stricken. And if they are all-in for nightmares, this conversation can also be a chance to glean some information about how you can most effectively terrify each of the characters with a nightmare dragon in your campaign. Plans and Motivations Because nightmare dragons are birthed by intense fear and anxiety regarding dragons, their motives are largely shaped by the collective mix of facts, rumors, and legends the population holds about such creatures. Understanding a nightmare dragon is an investigation of a community’s culture, history, myths, and bedtime stories. You can use the Nightmare Dragon Plans table to determine such a creature’s schemes and motivations. A nightmare dragon is what people make of it. What seems a terror is ultimately an expression of grief, fear, and trauma held by hosts. Learning secrets and understanding and resolving the underlying problems in a community are tactics that weaken a nightmare dragon’s hold. Who would imagine wounding so terrible a creature by teaching a child there’s no reason to be afraid of the dark? Nightmare Dragon Plans d4 Plan 1 The dragon is driven entirely by hunger, and will feed on psychic energy until the universe is empty or they burst like a tick. 2 The dragon wants to become fully real by crossing from the Astral Plane to the Material Plane. 3 The dragon wants to ascend to godhood, seeking dominion over all dreams. 4 The dragon is a gourmand, ruthlessly seeking the richest and rarest flavors of nightmares. Minions and Followers As the nightmare dragon’s predation and influence over a community grows, they tend to attract worship from both the like-minded and the fearful. As they exist in the Astral Plane, the dragon isn’t always aware of other creatures that claim to align with them. If they are, the dragon’s opinion of such hangers-on can range from amused acceptance to disgusted hostility. A nightmare dragon’s outlook is strongly influenced by the personality traits of dragons—real or imagined—imprinted on them by the hosts that first formed them. For example, a nightmare dragon shaped by those with a fear of red dragons relishes any chance to play the domineering tyrant. Pious Prey . Afflicted populations that become aware of the dragon may attempt to deify them in order to spare themselves. It’s almost better if the dragon directs these followers instead of a directionless, increasingly desperate cult trying anything they can think of to appease the psychic parasite. Dream-Eaters . Terrified prey can make for amusing subordinates, but are rarely useful. Fortunately, more useful servants are found among the ranks of night hags, oni, and others that prowl the borders between dreams and reality. Manifest Echoes . The stronger a nightmare dragon becomes, the thinner the line between their Astral residence and the waking world. Bits of thought and dream begin seeping into the Material Plane, manifesting as everything from common beasts to bizarre dream-creatures. People dream intensely about others they’ve met in passing, creating incomplete and unrealized imposters that act like unsettling half-finished sketches of personality. Unusual Events A nightmare dragon’s predation begins slowly and accelerates as their strength and appetite grows hand-in-hand. The effects of the dragon’s presence, whether intended or unintended, belie their existence long before the true cause of the events is clear. The Nightmare Dragon Rumors and Story Hooks table provides strange happenings the characters can discover that might lead them to a nightmare dragon. Nightmare Dragon Rumors and Story Hooks d6 Rumor or Hook 1 The children are acting strangely. Their play has turned to huddled whispers. They try to sneak knives to bed. 2 The business of regional hedge mages, temples, and apothecaries are booming as people seek a cure for bad dreams. 3 The community has become a hive of delirious activity as residents throw weary late-night festivals to stave off sleep. 4 A city is gripped by fear and confusion as people begin spotting their childhood nightmares and imaginary friends lurking in the streets 5 The characters are well-known, but their reputation is tarnished when half-manifested dream versions of them go out of control. 6 The city's wealthy residents begin sleepwalking their way into fatal doom. Nightmare Dragon Tactics As obvious a step as it may seem, review the dragon’s stat block and other features carefully. While some of these mechanics mirror similar dragon traits and actions, making note of key differences will distinguish the experience of confronting a nightmare dragon from encounters with other kinds of dragons. Persistent Fear . High-level adventurers can usually avoid the frightened condition, especially if they prepare for the fight with spells like heroes’ feast . The nightmare dragon’s Phobichor trait, their Clutching Bile breath weapon, and their ability to use their Horrifying Presence before or after attacking means that even well-prepared adventurers will often suffer the frightened condition while fighting them. Frightening Defense . High-level characters can reliably hit a target even when the frightened condition imposes disadvantage on their attack rolls. The dragon’s key survival mechanism is that the same fear makes them resistant to damage, regardless of type. If the dragon can keep most or all of its enemies afraid of them, they can mitigate the majority of damage directed and wait for their lair’s key mechanic—the Lull—to escalate. The Ticking Clock . When the fight begins, the Lull is a non-issue that has no hope of rendering a creature unconscious. As a warning flag to the characters, a GM might have them roll long before the Lull is a threat and narrate a brief but easily-ignored wave of drowsiness. As the Lull increases, descriptions of an escalating, hypnotizing rhythm can indicate a growing threat. The threat of the Lull becomes clear the moment a character drops unconscious and, even worse, is soon puppeted by the dragon’s eerie Somnambulist trait. The characters are confronted with the fact that the dragon, likely already challenging them with fear mechanics, has an ability to momentarily incapacitate them without even reducing them to 0 hit points. Transparency and Challenge . The nightmare dragon is a cruel creature and, by extension, offers a mechanically cruel encounter. They are designed to force characters to deal with conditions (namely, the frightened and unconscious conditions) in unconventional ways. It’s more than understandable for players to want to pause the action, strategize with one another, and ask for clarifications when confronted with new mechanics or difficult challenges. Fully understanding the nightmare dragon’s mechanics won’t necessarily make it easier to defeat, but intentionally obfuscating what is happening to the characters once a mechanic comes into play certainly has a chance to harm the experience. Death by Nightmare Victims of nightmare dragons endure horrifying night terrors, sometimes for weeks on end, as the dragon feeds on their negative emotions. What these dreamers don’t realize is that their sleeping minds are pulled into the Astral Plane, directly into the dragon’s ever-changing lair. The dragon molds the lair’s appearance to unnerve and disorient prey, trying to get the most from their meal. These sessions usually culminate in the nightmare dragon’s appearance as they confronts, attacks, and starts to devour their victim. At the peak of the victim’s terror, the dragon releases their prey from the astral tether, sending them screaming back to consciousness in their own beds. The dragon’s connection to each victim strengthens as they feeds on them repeatedly, until this dream-parasite inevitably kills their host. Body and mind fail in the face of overwhelming, sustained terror, or the victim’s projected mind becomes trapped in the astral lair, never to awaken again. In extreme cases, the mind-body connection is so strong that the mortal wounds of the dragon’s assault manifest in the physical world, and the gruesome aftermath of a full-grown dragon’s assault renders itself in the confines of a single bedroom. Sometimes a nightmare dragon devours their original host as voraciously as they would any other prey. In other cases, the dragon leaves their creators alive for extended periods of time, savoring the host’s nightmares like a gourmet. Some nightmare dragons are even convinced they’re incapable of killing their host. A Nightmare Dragon’s Lair The dragon’s lair, like their physical form, exists in the Astral Plane. From the outside, the lair is a massive, nebulous, glistening black mass that planar denizens ignore if uninformed or avoid if knowledgeable. The lair can be breached from the outside with a sufficient force of will; finding the lair in the first place is the real challenge. Entering the Dream Some spells allow creatures to enter the Astral Plane, but specifically navigating to the nightmare dragon’s lair is another matter. The plane shift spell allows the caster to specify a destination on another plane of existence, but without knowing the nightmare dragon’s chosen name or seeing the lair themselves, the result of the spell may be less than precise. It’s much simpler to access the lair the old-fashioned way, as bait. Seasoned adventurers have survived harrowing experiences, battled terrifying creatures, and endured loss and hardship in climactic situations. To put it simply, their lived experience is a nigh-irresistible banquet to a nightmare dragon, and a group of adventurers with shared histories are likely to be pulled into the lair if even one of their comrades is drawn to the Astral Plane. Alternatively, any creature with the dream spell prepared can cast it in a special manner, projecting their minds and the minds of any chosen companions to the nightmare dragon’s lair as long as they go to sleep in an area affected by the dragon’s predation. If the characters project their minds or astral selves to the dragon’s lair, they are nevertheless in mortal peril. Forming a psychic link strong enough for their projected selves to harm the dragon is a two-way street; if a character dies in the dragon’s lair, they die on the Material Plane. Regional Effects A nightmare dragon’s lair doesn’t affect the surrounding region in the Astral Plane, but a number of phenomena occur in the area of the Material Plane where the dragon’s victims live: An aura of dread pervades the region within 1 mile of affected areas. Sapient creatures in these areas have disadvantage on saving throws against being frightened, regardless of the source. Animals, especially domesticated animals near affected homes, show signs of exhaustion and distress. In rare cases, livestock are found killed with unmistakable but inexplicable evidence of attack by a large predator. Community members and visitors find themselves unusually tired, even nodding off in public places, as the dragon’s influence attempts to lull potential victims to sleep. Lair Features The nightmare dragon’s lair on the Astral Plane is an amorphous inky-black structure filled with a ever-shifting caverns. The surface of the lair is solid enough to walk on, but slick to the touch and with a slight, rubbery give. The lair reflects the thoughts and emotions of the dragon that dwells there, and constantly shifts and warps to suit the dragon’s needs; forming barricades, spines, and simple structures as commanded. The Lull . The nightmare dragon’s deadliest weapon isn’t their bite or bile, but the hypnotizing, sedative effect of their lair known as the Lull. The Lull is represented by Lull score, which starts at 1 and grows or shrinks in the following ways: The Lull increases by 2 at the start of each round the dragon is in combat, before any creature turns, lair actions, or other effects. The Lull increases by 1 each time a creature fails its saving throw against the dragon’s Clutching Bile action. The Lull increases by 1 each time a creature fails its saving throw against the dragon’s Soporific Thrum lair action. The Lull decreases by 1 each time a creature regains consciousness because of the dragon’s Somnambulist trait. On initiative count 20 of each round (after lair actions), up to three creatures of the dragon’s choice within its lair must each roll a number of d8s equal to the current Lull score. If the total is greater than or equal to the creature’s current hit points, the creature falls unconscious. An affected creature remains unconscious until it takes damage, someone uses an action to shake or slap the sleeper awake, or the dragon uses its Somnambulist trait to direct it. The Lull score resets to 1 if the dragon dies or the lair is unoccupied by creatures hostile to the dragon for at least 1 hour. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (before the effects of the Lull but losing all other initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Manifest Terror . The glossy substance of the dragon’s lair creates a Medium or Large manifestation in an unoccupied space within 90 feet of the dragon. The manifestation resembles a creature feared by previous or current victims, but is considered an object. It acts on initiative count 10, has a speed of 25 feet, and can attempt to grapple or shove a creature within 5 feet of it as an action (+8 to the ability check). A creature grappled by the manifestation is also restrained. At the start of the manifestation’s turn, the dragon can teleport to an unoccupied space within 10 feet of the manifestation. On initiative count 1, the manifestation collapses back into the substance of the lair. Nightmare Geography . The dragon creates up to four terrain segments within the lair, which are any combination of 10-foot-diameter, 10-foot-high pillars, 10-foot square, 10-foot-deep pits, or 15-foot-long, 5-foot-high, 5-foot-thick walls.. Each creature in an affected space must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is either pushed to one side of the new terrain or is raised by or lowered into the new terrain (dragon’s choice). A creature that succeeds on their saving throw moves to the nearest unoccupied space of their choice. On the dragon’s turn, the dragon can spend 5 feet of movement to enter a pillar or wall segment, reemerging from any other pillar or wall segment of their choice. Soporific Thrum . Each creature of the dragon’s choice within 120 feet of them must succeed on a DC 21 Charisma saving throw as a hypnotic tone fills the lair. The Lull increases by 1 for each creature that fails the saving throw, but no other effect occurs.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 24839
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 15

