# Nilbog

**description**: When Maglubiyet conquered the goblin gods, a trickster deity was determined to get the last laugh. Although Maglubiyet shattered its essence, this trickster god survives in a splintered form as possessing spirits that cause disorder unless they are appeased. Goblins have no name for this deity and dare not give it one, lest Maglubiyet use its name to ensnare and crush it as he did their other deities. They call the possessing spirit, as well as the goblin possessed by it, a nilbog (“goblin” spelled backward), and they revel in the chaos a nilbog sows. Whenever goblinoids form a host, there is a chance that a goblin will become possessed by a nilbog, particularly if the goblins have been mistreated by their betters. The possessed goblin turns into a wisecracking, impish creature fearless of reprisal. This nilbog also gains strange powers that drive others to do the opposite of what they desire. Attacking the possessed goblin is foolhardy, and killing them just prompts the spirit to possess another goblin. The only way to keep a nilbog from wreaking havoc is to treat it well and give it respect and praise. Among fey courts, the risk of attracting a nilbog has given rise to the practice of always including at least one goblin jester. This jester is allowed to go anywhere and do whatever they please, hopefully preventing a nilbog from manifesting. The position of jester is much sought-after among the courts’ goblins, because even if the jester is obviously not a nilbog, the court must indulge their chaotic behavior. Nilbogism A nilbog is an invisible spirit that possesses only goblins. When bereft of a host, the spirit has a flying speed of 30 feet, it can’t be attacked, and it is immune to all damage and conditions. Acting on initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the only action it can take is to attempt to possess a goblin within 5 feet of it. A goblin targeted by the spirit must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or become possessed. While possessed, the goblin uses the nilbog stat block. If the save succeeds, the spirit can’t possess that goblin for 24 hours. If its host is killed or the possession is ended by a spell such as hallow , magic circle , or protection from evil and good , the spirit searches for another goblin to possess. The spirit can leave its host at any time, but it won’t do so willingly unless it knows there’s another potential host nearby. A goblin stripped of their nilbog spirit reverts to their normal statistics and loses the traits they gained while possessed. Traits Nilbogism. Any creature that attempts to damage the nilbog must first succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or be charmed until the end of the creature’s next turn. A creature charmed in this way must use its action praising the nilbog. The nilbog can’t regain hit points, including through magical healing, except through its Reversal of Fortune reaction. Actions Fool’s Scepter. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage. Mocking Word. The nilbog targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or take 5 (2d4) psychic damage and have disadvantage on its next attack roll before the end of its next turn. Spellcasting. The nilbog casts one of the following spells, using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12): At will: mage hand , Tasha’s hideous laughter Bonus Actions Nimble Escape. The nilbog takes the Disengage or Hide action. Reactions Reversal of Fortune. In response to another creature dealing damage to the nilbog, the nilbog reduces the damage to 0 and regains 3 (1d6) hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fey (Goblinoid)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

