# Nintra Siotta

**description**: Nintra Siotta, Princess of the Shadow Glass Nintra Siotta, a chaotic evil archfey who was exiled from the Gloaming Court by the Queen of Air and Darkness long ago, is known in Faerûn by three titles: Princess of the Shadow Glass, Lady of Dread Omens, and Seeker of the Three Crowns. She appears as a 9-foot-tall humanoid made of smoky gray glass, wrapped in a cloak-like darkness that appears to devour the light. Nintra’s eyes burn with green fire, and she speaks in a high, musical voice. Deception comes naturally to her, but imprisonment in The Scrivener’s Tale has made her impatient and prone to telepathic outbursts that betray her cruel nature. Personality Trait . “I have no patience for those who are less than me—and all are less than me.” Ideal . “After I destroy the Queen of Air and Darkness for her weakness and insolence, I will take my rightful place at the head of the Gloaming Court.” Bond . “I have many supporters in the Gloaming Court who worship the ground I walk on. They deserve a sovereign who is worthy of their love.” Flaw . “Why should I worry about the schemes of others? No one is my equal in cunning.” Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Nintra can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; she can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: Nintra targets one pane of shadow glass in her lair, causing it to explode into shards. Each creature within 20 feet of the exploding pane must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The shards fade away to vapor and the pane is restored to normal at the next initiative count 20. Nintra targets one pane of shadow glass in her lair, briefly transforming it into a swirling vortex. One creature of her choice within 20 feet of the pane must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be drawn into the vortex, taking 11 (2d10) necrotic damage. The creature is then teleported to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of another pane of shadow glass in Nintra's lair (determined randomly). Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Nintra fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Spellcasting . Nintra casts one of the following spells, using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (save DC 20) and requiring no material components: 3/day each: dispel magic, faerie fire, mirror image Actions Multiattack . Nintra makes two attacks. Claw . Melee Weapon Attack : +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 12 (2d4 + 7) piercing damage. Shard of Shadow . Ranged Spell Attack : +12 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit : 10 (1d6 + 7) necrotic damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of its next turn. Storm of Shattered Glass (Recharge 6). Nintra targets a point she can see within 60 feet of her and creates a 20-foot-radius sphere of swirling glass shards centered on that point. Each creature in the sphere must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If Nintra is in the sphere, the shards deal no damage to her. Legendary Actions Nintra can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Nintra regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Attack . Nintra makes one attack. Fey Step . Nintra teleports to an unoccupied space she can see within 30 feet of her. Shadow Strikes (Costs 2 Actions). Provided she is in bright or dim light, Nintra causes her shadow to attack a creature within 10 feet of her. Her shadow makes two claw attacks, each attack identical to Nintra's claw attack except that it deals psychic damage instead of piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fey
- Expansion: 9505
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Candlekeep Mysteries

