# Niodrhast

**description**: The alien monstrosity Niodrhast has been stranded below Candlemere for centuries, but spent much of that time in hibernation. This creature can also be used as a lurking threat in other ways. They can serve as an ancient menace who remains dormant under an old monastery or other site instead. When civilization encroaches upon Niodrhast’s domain, they might wake slowly from their slumber to unleash a vengeful wrath that the PCs will ultimately be forced to quell at the end of a long campaign. Traits Innate Spellcasting. Niodrhast’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). Niodrhast can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components. 3/day each: detect magic, mage hand, scrying, teleport 1/day each: charm, suggestion, weird Actions Multiattack. Niodrhast makes four lashing tongues attacks. Lashing Tongues. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d10+10) piercing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (2d12+10) slashing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be swallowed by Niodrhast. A swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the swallowing creature, and it takes 21 (6d6) acid damage at the start of each of Niodrhast’s turns. If Niodrhast takes 30 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside them, Niodrhast must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of them. If Niodrhast dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by them and can escape from the corpse by using 20 feet of movement, exiting prone. Breath Weapon (Recharge 6). Niodrhast exhales acid in a 90-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 55 (10d10) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures who fail this saving throw must repeat this saving throw at the start of their next turn or take an additional 27 (5d10) acid damage. The line of acid remains until the start of Niodrhast’s next turn. If a creature moves into the affected area, or ends its turn there, it takes 27 (5d10) acid damage. Reactions Dimensional Wormhole. When a creature teleports to a location within Niodrhast’s awareness, Niodrhast creates an extradimensional wormhole at the triggering creature’s current location. The wormhole remains for up to 1 minute and has no effect on creatures other than Niodrhast. If Niodrhast uses 5 feet of their movement, they can teleport to the wormhole’s location, ending the effect. Instant Suggestion. When a creature fails a saving throw against one of Niodrhast’s spells or abilities, Niodrhast can cast suggestion on that creature if they have that spell available. Legendary Actions Niodrhast can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Niodrhast regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. Niodrhast makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Move. Niodrhast moves up to half its speed. Tongue. Niodrhast makes a lashing tongues attack. Voluminous Acid (Costs 2 Actions). Niodrhast focuses its internal acid production, allowing it to roll immediately to recharge its breath weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

