# Niya-Atha Sorcerer

**description**: The armored simian spoke calmly during the negotiations, but as the negotiations turned sour, it leapt into action, growing in size and cleaving the table in half with its sword. The niya-atha are jungle fey that resemble large, human-sized simians. They live in isolated kingdoms deep in the wilderness, where they war and plot against each other in endless conflicts. Though honorable and valorous, they are also utterly inhuman in mindset and obsessed with martial glory. Unwilling Adventure. The niya-atha kidnap travelers in their territory, conscripting the victims as mercenaries in their internal wars. They are rich and honorable employers, but they often deploy their new mercenaries on brutal campaigns. Those who survive are returned to their lands with their promised pay and reassurance of future help from the niya-atha. Of course, fey timescales are very different from those of other creatures and a mercenary's descendants are as likely to receive assistance from the niya-atha as the mercenary themselves. More than one would-be warlord has seen a company of honor-bound niya-atha join their side unprompted, repaying some karmic debt from a long-dead ancestor. Size-Shifting Warriors. The niya-atha can grow magically from normal height to immense sizes. This comes with increased strength but often limits their other skills. Warriors lose some of their mobility, sorcerers can't harness their most deadly incantations, and rajas lose their disciplined defense. Rajas. The rajas are the kings of the niya-atha. In addition to being potent duelists, they're inspiring commanders whose mere presence can bolster the spirits of their troops. Most mercenaries who work with the niya-atha are paid and led by a raja. In their natural forms, rajas are slippery foes who are difficult to harm with offensive magic. While enlarged, they trade their defenses for a terrifying bellow and brute strength. Sorcerers. Sorcerers are rare among the niya-atha, and each is celebrated as an omen of good luck. Descent from some long-forgotten elemental gives each sorcerer control over ice, allowing them to shield themselves and bombard foes with lethal accuracy. While enlarged, their ice magic loses some of its potency but becomes a frozen shield against their foes. Warriors. Warriors are the most common niya-atha. Clad in armor and armed with brass weapons, they are swift, mobile soldiers capable of climbing across walls and leaping great distances. They surrender these advantages when they swell in size, instead simply battering down their foes. Icy Wrath. The sorcerer's weapons are imbued with icy magic. When the sorcerer hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4 (1d8) cold damage (included in the attack). While enlarged, the sorcerer loses this bonus damage, but its AC increases to 16. Reduce. As the Niya-Atha Warrior. Actions Multiattack. The sorcerer makes three Scepter attacks or two Ice Shard attacks. Scepter. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) cold damage if the sorcerer is not enlarged, or 8 (2d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage if the sorcerer is enlarged. Ice Shard. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) cold damage. Summon Iceberg (Recharge 5-6). The sorcerer chooses a point it can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature within a 20 feet of that point must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and 7 (2d6) cold damage and is restrained until the end of its next turn. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't restrained. The sorcerer can't use this action while enlarged. Bonus Actions Enlarge. As the Niya-Atha Warrior. While enlarged, it also can no longer use the Summon Iceberg action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

