# Niya-Atha Raja

**description**: The armored simian spoke calmly during the negotiations, but as the negotiations turned sour, it leapt into action, growing in size and cleaving the table in half with its sword. The niya-atha are jungle fey that resemble large, human-sized simians. They live in isolated kingdoms deep in the wilderness, where they war and plot against each other in endless conflicts. Though honorable and valorous, they are also utterly inhuman in mindset and obsessed with martial glory. Unwilling Adventure. The niya-atha kidnap travelers in their territory, conscripting the victims as mercenaries in their internal wars. They are rich and honorable employers, but they often deploy their new mercenaries on brutal campaigns. Those who survive are returned to their lands with their promised pay and reassurance of future help from the niya-atha. Of course, fey timescales are very different from those of other creatures and a mercenary's descendants are as likely to receive assistance from the niya-atha as the mercenary themselves. More than one would-be warlord has seen a company of honor-bound niya-atha join their side unprompted, repaying some karmic debt from a long-dead ancestor. Size-Shifting Warriors. The niya-atha can grow magically from normal height to immense sizes. This comes with increased strength but often limits their other skills. Warriors lose some of their mobility, sorcerers can't harness their most deadly incantations, and rajas lose their disciplined defense. Rajas. The rajas are the kings of the niya-atha. In addition to being potent duelists, they're inspiring commanders whose mere presence can bolster the spirits of their troops. Most mercenaries who work with the niya-atha are paid and led by a raja. In their natural forms, rajas are slippery foes who are difficult to harm with offensive magic. While enlarged, they trade their defenses for a terrifying bellow and brute strength. Sorcerers. Sorcerers are rare among the niya-atha, and each is celebrated as an omen of good luck. Descent from some long-forgotten elemental gives each sorcerer control over ice, allowing them to shield themselves and bombard foes with lethal accuracy. While enlarged, their ice magic loses some of its potency but becomes a frozen shield against their foes. Warriors. Warriors are the most common niya-atha. Clad in armor and armed with brass weapons, they are swift, mobile soldiers capable of climbing across walls and leaping great distances. They surrender these advantages when they swell in size, instead simply battering down their foes. Commanding Bulk. While the raja is enlarged, each friendly creature within 30 feet of the raja can't be charmed or frightened. Evasion. If the raja is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a saving throw to take only half damage, the raja instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. The raja can't use this trait while enlarged. Magic Resistance. The raja has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. The raja can't use this trait while enlarged. Reduce. As the Niya-Atha Warrior.. Actions Multiattack. The raja uses its War Bellow. It then makes three Tulwar attacks or four Dart attacks. Tulwar. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage, or 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage if enlarged. Dart. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage, or 10 (2d4 + 5) piercing damage if enlarged. War Bellow. The raja releases a loud, challenging bellow. Each hostile creature within 60 feet of the raja that can hear the bellow must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or become frightened. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the raja's War Bellow for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Enlarge. As the Niya-Atha Warrior. While enlarged, it also can no longer use the Evasion or Magic Resistance traits.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

