# Noran

**description**: At first glance, the noran appears as an ordinary petrified tree full of knots and holes. What gives it away is its face growing out of the trunk, with two eyelids and a mouth filled with teeth that look like crudely-sharpened wooden stakes. Above the noran's face is a hollow but sturdy 4-foot long, 2-foot diameter branch. The noran also possesses three prehensile branches, each ending in long sharp claws. The noran can move, albeit slowly, by crawling on the ground with its thick stubby roots. It is normally found at the edges of bogs, gloomy forests, and swamps, where it can blend easily. A few have also been discovered living deep within the Underdark. Ambush Hunter. The noran is an aggressive carnivorous creature. While it still needs water and soil nutrients, it is nourished mainly by meat. The noran is usually an ambush hunter, waiting for prey to wander close to it. Once its target is within range, the noran explodes into action, attacking with its powerful claws at blinding speed. Most victims are torn to pieces by the initial assault. Those that manage to survive are grappled by the noran and bitten until it is dead. Deadly Cannoneer. What makes the noran deadly is its ability to shoot rocks from its hollow cannon-like branch located above its face. The noran has a body organ that can trap and heat air, allowing it to build pressure within its trunk cavity until it decides to release it. If the noran has a rock loaded within its cannon's aperture, it can release the built-up pressure and shoot the rock with tremendous power. The noran can aim the rock accurately at distances of 120 feet. Most prey are instantly killed by the rock's blow which is strong enough to shatter bone and break spinal columns. Those that survive are either stunned or knocked unconscious, giving the noran ample time to reach it. Awakened Tree. The noran, said to be distantly related to treants, is an intelligent tree that understands the value of coin and treasure. The noran usually collect them, keeping them within its cavity. It may be a voracious predator, but it is intelligent enough to recognize mutually beneficial arrangements. As long as it is paid and fed well, it can be hired to serve as a sentry. While the noran itself isn't an evil creature, it has been known to associate with green dragons, hags, harpies, malignos, quicklings, redcaps, and tikbalangs. Traits False Appearance. If the noran is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the noran move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the noran is animate. Actions Multiattack. The noran makes two Claw attacks. If it is grappling with a creature, it can also use its Bite. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, the noran can automatically hit the target with its Claw attack. The noran has two claws, each of which can grapple only one target. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target it is grappling with. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) piercing damage. Rock Cannon. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 33 (5d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become stunned until the end of its next turn. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is knocked unconscious for 1 minute. The unconscious target repeats the saving throw if it takes damage and at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The noran must have a rock loaded inside its cannon to use this action. Bonus Actions Load Rock Cannon. As a bonus action, the noran loads its cannon with a rock ammunition.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

