# Nosferatu Master

**description**: The master rules over all nosferatu in a given region. It is an ancient, malevolent, and powerful undead being. It is the oldest of all nosferatu, often the blood parent or origin of the alphas that serve it, and is revered by its kind. Unlike other nosferatu, the master is fully lucid, can control its feral instincts, and has bat-like wings, making it very dangerous. Nosferatu The nosferatu is a vampire-like, undead creature (Van Richten's Guide to Ravenloft). Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the nosferatu fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Regeneration. The nosferatu regains 10 hit points at the start of each of its turns if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in sunlight. If the nosferatu takes radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function until the start of the nosferatu’s next turn. Spider Climb. The nosferatu can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The nosferatu takes 20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Unusual Nature. The nosferatu doesn’t require air. Actions Multiattack. The nosferatu uses Terrifying Presence. It then makes two Claw attacks followed by one Bite attack. If both Claw attacks hit the same creature, the Bite attack is made with advantage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. If the target is missing any of its hit points, it instead takes 16 (3d10) necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the nosferatu regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. A Humanoid slain in this way and then buried in the ground rises as a nosferatu after 1d10 days. Terrifying Presence. Each creature of the nosferatu’s choice that the nosferatu can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the nosferatu for 1 minute. The frightened creature is paralyzed. The frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the nosferatu’s Terrifying Presence for the next 24 hours. Blood Disgorge (Recharge 5–6). The nosferatu vomits blood in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) necrotic damage, and it can’t regain hit points for 1 minute. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Legendary Actions The nosferatu can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The nosferatu regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The nosferatu makes one Claw attack. Move. The nosferatu moves up to its speed. Mauling Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The nosferatu moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks, and it can make one Claw attack against each creature it moves past.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

