# Nostradamicus

**description**: To fulfill his desires of uncovering the secrets of the universe, Nostradamicus transformed himself into a lich, separating his soul from his body. However, after completing the ritual he became so paranoid about allowing any being near his phylactery that he now spends his days doing arcane research in isolation: speaking only to himself, and guarded by an eerie labyrinth filled with powerful magic, traps, and guardians he has deemed truly loyal. Self-Imposed Prison. Nostradamicus’s mistrust of others has him convinced that he must be prepared for attempts on his life at all times, and he keeps himself locked in the deepest parts of his demiplane’s labyrinth, communicating with the outside only through a series of notes or sounds transmitted through solid objects. The labyrinth itself is guarded by endless traps, magical wards, and numerous beasts and monsters captured from all manner of planes and magically bound to serve him. Master Diviner. Nostradamicus has honed his ability to divine the future in search of eliminating threats to his life. However, his paranoia leads him to see danger in even the least threatening visions, and he has been known to set plans in motion on false assumptions. Armored Phylactery. Nostradamicus’ phylactery is a crystal orb that emits the same pale blue light as his eyes. To keep it safer still, he has bound the crystal in a spherical cage of adamantine and has enchanted the entire object against damage from almost every source imaginable. Though he would never reveal this secret, destroying his phylactery requires the willing sacrifice of a living humanoid by magically transposing their heart with the phylactery. This process destroys both souls, preventing the sacrifice from being resurrected. Appearance. Nostradamicus is a tall, lanky individual draped in stale, moldy robes with a deep-sunken face illuminated by teal-blue light emanating from his eye sockets. A long, white, seemingly endless beard covers his face and drapes down to gather on the floor around him. His skin is pulled taut against his bones, and his overgrown fingernails have taken on a claw-like appearance in undeath. Personality. Nostradamicus enjoys his extreme isolation, and rambles to himself constantly, his mutterings echoing throughout the infinite halls of his labyrinth. Paranoid to a fault, he keeps deadly traps even within his inner sanctum, occasionally surprising himself (and furthering his paranoia) when he forgets where one is placed. Plot Hooks A Search for Ingredients. Nostradamicus needs some rare ingredients procured for his research, and in lieu of collecting them himself, he has developed a ritual that will pluck objects from an area of his choice - like an arcane fishing rod thrown into the material plane. The disappearance of an important object leads to a call for adventurers to find it and bring it back. Faulty Vision. Nostradamicus has a vision that he interprets as the party representing a threat on his life. Preferring to take control of the situation, he sets plans in motion to trap the party in his labyrinth, where they must prove they are of no threat before his traps and minions kill them. Portents of Doom. In searching for threats to his existence, Nostradamicus uncovers a plot of world-ending importance. He uses his magic to put out a call to adventurers, inviting them to his labyrinth to prove themselves. While he tests the strength of adventurers, he also gauges their trustworthiness, jettisoning (or killing) those he believes would be a threat to him even if they succeed in preventing the doom he has foretold. Tactics Nostradamicus’ Foresight trait combined with his Legendary Resistance and Daily Portent means that he is incredibly slippery, able to avoid most spells and effects thrown at him. When physically restrained, he uses Arcane Slip to escape to a better position. While in his labyrinth, the Shifting Labyrinth lair action can allow him to create a pocket of safe space or a medium-size prison by connecting the sections of wall to an existing wall in a U shape, while Arcane Warding makes him even harder to destroy. He generally assumes he will only ever face one combat scenario each day as long as he is in his labyrinth, and opens combat with his most powerful spells, including power word: bleed and suffocating symbol-crypt. Despite his phylactery’s relative safety (see Armored Phylactery above), he is paranoid about allowing his body to be destroyed in case his assailants steal his phylactery. When reduced below half hit points, he tries to escape if a favorable end to the fight is not in sight. Lair Actions While in his labyrinth, on initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Nostradamicus takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Nostradamicus can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Arcane Warding. A ward creates a shield around Nostradamicus, and he gains 30 temporary hit points. These temporary hit points are subtracted from damage dealt when determining whether one of his Injury thresholds has been met. Trapped!. Two creatures chosen at random that are within 120 feet of Nostradamicus (including himself) trigger a trap. These creatures must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) points of force damage. Shifting Labyrinth. The labyrinth shifts and changes, and six 5-foot square sections of wall materialize anywhere within 120 feet of Nostradamicus. These wall segments reach to the ceiling, and must either form a continuous wall or be in contact with another existing wall. These segments disappear when this effect next occurs. Traits Rejuvenation. If Nostradamicus’ phylactery is intact, he gains a new body within 1d10 days when destroyed. When his new body forms, he appears within 5 ft. of the phylactery with all his hit points restored and with no Injuries. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Nostradamicus fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When Nostradamicus gains an Injury, he can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until he finishes a long rest. Spellcasting. Nostradamicus is a 19th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 21, +13 to hit with spell attacks). Foresight. Nostradamicus has the ability to see into the immediate future. He can’t be surprised and has advantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. Additionally, other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls against Nostradamicus. This effect can be disabled for 1 minute with a successful dispel magic against a 9th-level spell, and does not function in an antimagic field. Daily Portent (2/Day). Nostradamicus can replace the result of any d20 roll made by himself or a creature he can see within 120 ft. of him with a 1 or a 20. Once he has selected one of these numbers, he can’t select it again until he finishes a long rest. Turn Resistance. Nostradamicus has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead. Actions Painful Bolt. Nostradamicus casts painful bolt * . Ranged Spell Attack: +13 to hit, range 30 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (4d4) psychic damage, and the creature’s Injury thresholds are reduced by 10 until they receive an Injury or until the end of Nostradamicus’ next turn, whichever comes sooner. Vile Incantation. Nostradamicus casts vile incantation * at 4th level. One creature Nostradamicus touches must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (8d6) force damage and be inflicted with a core Injury of his choice. This Injury must be of Dangerous ] severity or lower. On a successful save the creature suffers half damage and is not Injured. Any creature immune to polymorph effects, such as a shapechanger, or not made of organic matter has advantage on the saving throw. Any creature that is incorporeal is not affected by this spell. This spell cannot inflict an Injury if the creature already has one of the severity that would be inflicted. Vicarious Shriek (Recharge 4-6). Nostradamicus casts vicarious shriek *. Up to three creatures the bloodthorn druid can see within 30 ft. must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed saving throw, each creature takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage, plus 7 (2d6) additional psychic damage per creature that failed its saving throw, or half as much on a successful save. Additionally, each creature that fails its save becomes frightened of Nostradamicus and each target of the spell other than themselves. At the end of each of their turns, they can attempt a new saving throw to shake off the fear. On a creature’s first failed save, the nearest creature within 60 ft. of them that is hostile to Nostradamicus and was not a target of the initial casting of the spell must make a Wisdom saving throw, on a failed save this creature takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage and becomes frightened of the bloodthorn druid and the targets of the spell. On a successful save the creature takes half damage and is not frightened. This creature can also attempt a new save to end its fear at the end of each of its turns, though the spell does not target additional creatures if it fails this save. Wrack (Recharge 5-6). Nostradamicus casts wrack *. One creature Nostradamicus can see within 60 ft. must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 18 (4d8) psychic damage and be stunned until the end of his next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature takes half damage and is sickened until the start of its next turn instead. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs. Power Word: Bleed (1/Day). Nostradamicus casts power word: bleed *. One living creature Nostradamicus can see within 90 ft. of him must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take (55) 10d10 force damage and gain a special Injury of Deadly IIII severity, "Ruptured". While Injured in this way, a creature takes 11 (2d10) damage at the start of each of its turns, has its Injury thresholds reduced by 10, and regains only half the usual hit points from spells and potions. This Injury lasts for 1 minute, or until the creature receives magical healing from a spell of 5th level or higher. Suffocating Symbol-Crypt (1/Day). Nostradamicus casts Ersch’s suffocating symbol-crypt *. Nostradamicus chooses one creature that he can see within 60 ft. of him. That creature must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or be trapped in a box of pure force and immediately begin to suffocate as though it had run out of air (see player’s book page 183). Nothing can pass through the barrier, though it is mostly translucent. As an action, any creature within 10 ft. of the prison can attempt a DC 21 Intelligence check to learn the passphrase necessary to dispel the barrier. On a success, they can speak the phrase and cause the spell to end. When the spell ends, the barrier disappears and the target creature's breath returns. The spell also ends early if the target dies. A creature that does not need to breathe can still be affected by this spell, though it does not suffocate. Ability checks made to dispel the barrier (but not to counter the spell) have disadvantage. Bonus Actions Arcane Slip. Nostradamicus teleports up to 60 ft. to an unoccupied space. Nostradamicus can’t use this ability if he uses his action to cast any spell other than a cantrip, such as painful bolt .* Legendary Actions Nostradamicus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Nostradamicus regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Cantrip. Nostradamicus casts painful bolt * or any other cantrip he knows. Read Thoughts. Nostradamicus listens in on the thoughts of creatures within 30 ft. of him, learning their surface thoughts. He can also choose one of them to learn more from. That creature must make a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, Nostradamicus gains insight into its reasoning (if any), current emotional state, and something that looms large in its mind (such as something it worries over, loves, or hates). Overwhelming Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). Nostradamicus shares visions of defeat as he locks eyes with his foe. One creature Nostradamicus can see that can see him and that is within 10 ft. of him must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Arcane Consumption (Costs 3 Actions). Nostradamicus absorbs magical energy from those around him. Each creature within 20 ft. of him must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (6d6) force damage and lose its highest-level available spell slot. On a successful save creatures take half damage and do not lose a spell slot. Nostradamicus regains hit points equal to the combined levels of the spell slots lost. If any of the spell slots lost were of 7th-level or higher, the next spell he casts also deals maximum damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

