# Nuckelavee

**description**: According to legend, the nuckelavee was once a powerful champion of good that fell in battle against the forces of the demon prince Orcus. As punishment, the champion and its steed are transformed by the Demon Prince of Undeath into a demon. This is partially true. Deathpriests of Orcus perform an unholy ritual where they sacrifice, willing or otherwise, a knight and its steed to the demon lord. A mighty abyssal fiend is summoned and uses the sacrifice as its vessel. Both man and steed are then fused together in an agonizing ritual that brings forth the nuckelavee - a fiendish abomination whose horrifying visage can bring unending nightmares to those that gaze upon it. The resulting appearance - crimson ropy muscles visible through translucent skin, black blood coursing through yellow veins, an equine skull jutting from its midsection - is horrific. Amphibious Fiend. While it may be a fiend, the amphibious nuckelavee is normally encountered in the Material Plane, wading in dismal watery places such as fog-filled bogs and marshlands. Bringer of Woe. Like all servants of Orcus, the nuckelavee is devoid of its heart, and its once righteous spirit has been replaced with a desire for death and destruction - all for the glory of the demon prince of undeath. It now serves as a terrifying herald of Orcus. Some say that when someone a nuckelavee is sighted, disease, drought, and pestilence shall soon follow. Champion of Undeath. The nuckelavee's entire being seethes with necrotic energy. Its very presence instantly kills nearby animal and plant life, leaving only death and decay at its wake. It is not surprising then that it can be found in the company of undead, even serving them as their leader. Baleful Weapons. In combat, the nuckelavee can be a deadly opponent that should not be underestimated. Its potent breath can instantly cause flesh and bone to rot, and its dreaded claws can cause instant death to those who are foolish enough to challenge it. Traits Amphibious. The nuckelavee can breathe air and water. Magic Resistance. The nuckelavee has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The nuckelavee uses Dreadful Visage. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is reduced to 0 hit points, unless it is immune to necrotic damage. Otherwise, a target takes 11 (2d10) necrotic damage on a failed save. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is reduced to 0 hit points, unless it is immune to necrotic damage. Otherwise, a target takes 11 (2d10) necrotic damage on a failed save. Dreadful Visage. Each creature within 60 feet of the nuckelavee that can see it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. If the initial saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is paralyzed while frightened in this way. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the nuckelavee is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the nuckelavee's Dreadful Visage for the next 24 hours. Undead and Fiends ignore this effect. Pestilent Breath (Recharge 5–6). The nuckelavee's equine head exhales pestilent gas in a 30-foot cube. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) poison damage and 22 (4d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Aura of Annihilation. The nuckelavee activates or deactivates this deathly aura. While active, the aura deals 5 necrotic damage to any creature that ends its turn within 30 feet of the nuckelavee. Undead and Fiends ignore this effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

