# Nyrissa

**description**: Nyrissa serves as the primary villain of the Kingmaker Adventure Path . Using her statistics for a foe in another campaign can be tricky, particularly if some of your players have played Kingmaker before. Never underestimate the value of simply changing a foe’s name to disguise the origin of its statistics! You can go even further and modify her alignment to good or neutral, perhaps transforming her into a powerful guardian spirit—such as a conscious manifestation of a planet’s entire ecosystem. A powerful party of PCs might be called upon to rescue her from even more powerful antagonists bent on enslaving the soul of an entire world. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), but no more often than once per minute, Nyrissa can take a lair action to use the following magical effects: If she’s located in the 20-foot diameter central area of one of the four Fables, Nyrissa moves a minimum distance of 10 feet, after which the reality of the demiplane folds around her in a tangle of vines and flowers. She then teleports from her current Fable to one of the other three of her choice, appearing in a square of her choosing within the central 20 feet of the chosen Fable. Traits Blinding Gaze. When a creature that can see Nyrissa’s eyes starts its turn within 30 feet of her, Nyrissa can force it to make a DC 23 Constitution saving throw if she isn’t incapacitated and can see the creature. If the saving throw fails, the creature is instantly blinded. The blindness lasts until the creature is cured by the heal spell or other magic. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the save at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see Nyrissa until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at Nyrissa in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. Nyrissa is immune to the effects of her own Blinding Gaze as well as that of other nymphs. Nyrissa can suppress or resume this ability as a bonus action. Evasion. If Nyrissa is subjected to an effect that allows her to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, she instead takes no damage if she succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if she fails. Innate Spellcasting. Nyrissa’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: speak with animals, speak with plants 1/day: dominate monster, geas Inspiration. Nyrissa can inspire an intelligent, willing creature by scratching that creature with a thorn from her body. This reduces that creature’s hit points by 1 permanently, but grants the creature several abilities: darkvision to a range of 60 feet, the ability to see invisible creatures, and a +2 bonus to an ability of Nyrissa’s choice. A bard granted this inspiration gains advantage on Performance checks. Only one creature at a time can benefit from this inspiration. For the bulk of the Kingmaker Adventure Path , King Irovetti has this inspiration, but once he is slain or defeated, who Nyrissa grants the bonus to instead (if anyone) is left to the GM to determine. Land’s Stride. Moving through nonmagical difficult terrain costs Nyrissa no extra movement. She can also pass through nonmagical plants without being slowed by them and without taking damage from them if they have thorns, spines, or a similar hazard. In addition, Nyrissa has advantage on saving throws against plants that are magically created or manipulated to impede movement, such those created by the entangle spell. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Nyrissa fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magical Secrets. Nyrissa can prepare spells from the sorcerer list as well as the druid spell list; these spells count as druid spells for her and are included in her spells prepared. Magic Resistance. Nyrissa has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protection from Decapitation (1/Day) The first time Nyrissa is decapitated by any effect, the effect is negated. She takes no damage from the attack, and is not decapitated, but then loses her protection from decapitation for 24 hours. Shame. Nyrissa has disadvantage on rolls made against a creature that wields Briar , or any character who rules a kingdom. A character who understands the nature of this shame can attempt to forgive Nyrissa (requiring an action by the forgiving creature) by speaking to her in a language she understands. Nyrissa must attempt a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, Nyrissa has disadvantage on all rolls until the end of her next turn. If she rolls a natural 1 on this saving throw, she calls for a truce to speak with the PCs as detailed in the Kingmaker Adventure Path . Shapechanger. Nyrissa can use her action to polymorph into a form that resembles any Medium fey or humanoid, or back into her true form. Her statistics are the same in each form. Spellcasting. Nyrissa is a 20th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). Nyrissa has prepared the following druid and sorcerer spells: Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, light, produce flame, true strike 1st level (4 slots): charm person, cure wounds, disguise self, faerie fire 2nd level (3 slots): detect thoughts, flame blade, gust of wind, scorching ray 3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, lightning bolt, meld into stone 4th level (3 slots): banishment, dimension door, greater invisibility 5th level (2 slots): antilife shell, contagion, telekinesis 6th level (1 slot): chain lightning, contingency, heal, wall of thorns 7th level (1 slot): fire storm, teleport 8th level (1 slot): maze, reverse gravity 9th level (1 slot): foresight Toxic Weapons. Nyrissa’s weapon attacks are magical. When she hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 13 (3d8) poison damage (included in the attack). Actions Multiattack. Nyrissa makes three melee attacks with her thorny lash. Thorny Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6+6) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) poison damage. Hurled Thorn. Ranged Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, range 60/300 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6+6) piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) poison damage. Stunning Glance. Nyrissa fixes her gaze on one creature she can see within 30 feet of herself. The target must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw against this magic or become stunned for 1 minute. The stunned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions Nyrissa can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Nyrissa regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Lash Out. Nyrissa makes two melee attacks with her thorny lash. Focus Beauty. Nyrissa uses her Stunning Glance. Swift Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Nyrissa casts a spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

