# Oathbound Seeker

**description**: Note: More information can be found about Oathbound creatures in Chronicles of Eberron . Touch of Mabar Oathbound aren’t driven by the hunger of the vampire, and they don’t need to consume to survive. However, they’re still sustained by and suffused with the power of Mabar. This is why the touch of the mummy causes flesh to rot and why its gaze causes dread; it’s a vessel for Mabar, which embodies the death of all that lives and the end of all hope. While oathbound aren’t affected as dramatically as vampires are, the influence of Mabar still erodes their compassion and empathy; consequently, most mummies have an evil alignment. As is always the case in Eberron, oathbound can have an evil alignment and still be driven to do good—but because of that lack of empathy, they may do good deeds in an evil way. A mummy forgets pain, and so it doesn’t care about causing pain to others; as a result, mummies tend to be crueler than the deathless of Aerenal, who are sustained by positive energy. You can have a good or neutral mummy, but there’s a reason they are rare. And even for these, the Aereni point to the mummy’s Rotting Touch to support their assertion that the oathbound do consume the life force of the world—that even though mummies don’t actively feed on others as vampires do, they are still slowly destroying the world merely by existing. Traits Seeker’s Aegis. If the oathbound isn’t incapacitated at the start of its turn, it regains 1d4 hit points for each friendly creature it can see within 20 feet of it that isn’t an Undead or Construct and that doesn’t have all its hit points. When the oathbound Seeker regains at least 1 hit point in this way, it has advantage on saving throws against spells and magical effects until the start of its next turn. Unusual Nature. The oathbound doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The oathbound makes one Rotting Fist or Mabaran Touch attack, and it can use its Seeker’s Word. Rotting Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with mummy rot. The cursed target can’t regain hit points, and its hit point maximum decreases by 10 (3d6) for every 24 hours that elapse. If the curse reduces the target’s hit point maximum to 0, the target dies, and its body turns to dust. The curse lasts until removed by the remove curse spell or similar magic. Mabaran Touch. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. A ghostly, skeletal hand clings to the target, and the target can’t regain hit points until the start of the oathbound’s next turn. Seeker’s Word. The oathbound utters a prayer exalting divine sacrifice. Each creature within 20 feet of the oathbound that can hear it is compelled to choose one of the following effects; Constructs and Undead are immune to these effects: The target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or become frightened until the end of the oathbound’s next turn. If the target fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it is also paralyzed for the same duration. The target takes necrotic damage equal to half its maximum hit points, which can’t be reduced in any way. A creature that either chooses to take damage or succeeds on its saving throw is immune to the Seeker’s Word of all oathbound for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The oathbound Seeker casts one of the following spells, using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: guidance, mold earth XGE 1/day each: bless, hold person, shield of faith (as an action), silence

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 21558
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

