# Obeleric

**description**: In its natural form, an obeleric looks like a tangle of intestines with a shell made of gravel and dirt. When it curls into a ball, it looks like any other boulder. Obelerics are boneless abominations that multiply through parthenogenesis, secreting their jelly-covered eggs in the corpses of their victims. Once matured, an obeleric eats every living thing it encounters. Long-Term Threat. Obelerics prefer to prey on creatures smaller than themselves. In villages this means small animals and livestock, such as dogs and chickens; in towns, they devour cats, rats, and pigeons. Because obeleric eggs can take a full year to mature, a single obeleric's offspring can infest an area over a decade. Still Stones. Despite their voracious hunger, an adult obeleric can survive a century or more between meals. When food is scarce, it rolls itself into a boulder-like shape and remains motionless until it senses movement. When it becomes active again, it snatches the nearest small creature and drags it off to eat; obelerics remain active as long as they have a steady food supply. Mountain Terrors. While mining adamantine deep below the surface, a team of dwarven miners discovered a large deposit of an unknown, incredibly dense metal. In their haste to harvest it, the team discovered a hollow core containing a few boulders. Only when the boulders became active did they realize their folly. Since then, obelerics have left the Underworld to infest the mountains and foothills, and tumbled down streams and rivers to farms and settlements. False Appearance. While the obeleric remains motionless and in its defensive form, it is indistinguishable from a normal boulder. Ricochet Charge (Defensive Form Only). If the obeleric moves at least 15 feet straight toward a target, and then hits the target with a Boulder Bash attack on the same turn, the target has disadvantage on the saving throw against being knocked prone. If the target is prone, the obeleric can move up to 15 feet straight toward a second target without provoking opportunity attacks from the first target, and make one Boulder Bash attack against the second target as a bonus action, if the second target is within its reach. Actions Multiattack. The obeleric makes two Tentacle Slam or Acid Spit attacks. Boulder Bash (Defensive Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Tentacle Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) acid damage. Spit Acid. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) acid damage. A creature hit by this attack takes an additional 3 (1d6) acid damage at the start of its next turn. Bonus Actions Defensive Roll. The obeleric can roll itself into a boulder-like defensive form or back into its tentacled true form. While in defensive form, it has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks, can't make Tentacle Slam or Spit Acid attacks, and can't use Reflux. Reactions Reflux. When the obeleric takes bludgeoning damage, it can vomit acid at one creature within 5 feet of it. That creature must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take 3 (1d6) acid damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

