# Obliviax

**description**: Obliviax (Memory Moss) The obliviax, also known as the memory moss, is an evil, sentient plant that resembles a thick patch of dark green moss with endlessly undulating leaves. The obliviax does not require sunlight to grow, though it needs it to trigger its spore reproduction. It is found in temperate climates where it has enough sunshine to grow and reproduce, sprouting on tree trunks, logs, damp cavern floors, or rotting leaves. It may form colonies with others of its kind. Spell Thief. Like moss, the obliviax absorbs water and nutrients through its leaves. However, it also feeds on psychic energy. It does this by stealing magical memories, or spells, from spellcasting creatures. It converts these magical memories into psychic energy, which it then absorbs. When a spellcaster comes within 60 feet of it, the obliviax can attempt to steal one memorized spell from the target by using its Steal Magical Memory. If successful, the spellcaster loses memory of the spell, as if it had already cast it. Once it has a spell stolen, the obliviax can change its shape, imitating the form (up to Medium size) of the spellcasting creature from whom it stole the spell. The new form appears as a clone of the spellcaster, except made completely of moss. Once in this form, the obliviax can cast the spells it has stolen. When it detects a creature that can cast spells, the obliviax will eerily quiver in anticipation and slowly crawl toward it. Defense Against Magic. Creatures such as bullywugs, grimlocks, kobolds, nothics, troglodytes, and trolls that don't have spellcasting members in their tribes sometimes cultivate obliviaxes. These creatures grow the obliviaxes in the periphery of their encampment or lairs as a defense against magic-users, even occasionally feeding them a captured spellcaster. Some myconid communities have been known to cohabitate with obliviaxes, using them against drow raiders. Certain evil druids and hags have also learned to control and bend obliviaxes to their will and use them as sentries and traps. Traits Amorphous. The obliviax can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Detect Spellcaster. The obliviax can sense the presence and location of any creature within 120 feet of it that has the Spellcasting or Pact Magic feature, regardless of interposing barriers, unless the creature is protected by a nondetection or mind blank spell. False Appearance. If the obliviax is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the obliviax move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the obliviax is animate. Actions Slam (Humanoid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) psychic damage. Steal Magical Memory. The obliviax targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it that has prepared spells. The target takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage, and it must make a DC 12 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target loses 1d4 prepared spells of 3rd level and below (determined randomly) and the obliviax gains the knowledge of these spells as if it has prepared them after a long rest. In addition, the obliviax gains temporary hit points equal to total level of spells stolen. The target can regain the lost prepared spells after a long rest. Spellcasting (Psionics, Humanoid Form Only, 3/Day). The obliviax casts one of the spells it has acquired using Steal Magical Memory, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). Bonus Actions Copy Shape. The obliviax changes its shape into a faux moss-covered Medium version of the creature it has successfully used Steal Magic Memory on, or back into its true form, which is a 5-foot square patch of moss. Its statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

