# Ogre, Rockchewer

**description**: Rough stone forms the skin of this towering giant. It pulls a rock from the bag slung over its shoulder and bites down on it as one would a piece of fruit. When the giant speaks, loose gravel spurts from its mouth. Rockchewer ogres roam hills, mountains, and badlands that contain exposed stone. They often share territory with stone giants, though the giants consider the ogres' presence an infestation. Absentminded Gnawers. Rockchewer ogres eat natural and worked stone. They compulsively chew on it, which can include castles, towers, or walls. They can quickly devastate foundations, as they typically eat 50 pounds of stone each day. Considering the powerful force required to chew stone, the creatures fortunately forgo biting softer targets. Their fussiness about the experience of chewing tough materials extends to the speed at which they eat. Rockchewer ogres prefer to take their time with their food, rolling the remnants around in their mouths as they eat. Even in cases where they must quickly crush stone to spit devastating cones of debris in combat, the ogres are reluctant to hurry. Deadly Play. The ogres enjoy chucking rocks at each other as a game. On most throws, they fail to catch the projectile, and their bodies withstand most of the impact. A typical match sees rocks thudding against the ogres' torsos while they laugh. Because the ogres greet each other with thrown rocks, they often toss rocks at any new “friends” they meet. They quickly apologize for any harm done, provided the response consists of harsh words and not drawn weapons. Tolerated by Stone Giants. Rockchewer ogres feel a kinship to stone giants and often migrate to the giants' strongholds. Many stone giants believe the ogres are distant relatives and begrudgingly accept them into the midst. The ogres put the giants' patience to the test, however, as they thoughtlessly chew on homes, art, or important monuments. Stone giants prefer not to kill rockchewer ogres; instead, they lead the easily distracted ogres to quarries and mines away from stone giant homes. Stone Chomper . The rockchewer ogre deals double damage to stone objects and structures with its bite attack. Actions Multiattack. The rockchewer ogre makes two Slam attacks or one Bite attack and one Slam attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Chew Rock. The rockchewer ogre thoroughly crushes a rock in its large maw, reducing it to rubble. Gravel Spray . The rockchewer ogre spits out a 15-foot cone of crunched up rock. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage, or half as much damage on a successful one. The rockchewer ogre can use this action only if it has used Chew Rock within the past minute. Bonus Actions Quick Chew (Recharge 6). The rockchewer ogre uses Chew Rock. Reactions Rock Catching. If a rock or similar object is hurled at the rockchewer ogre, the ogre can, with a successful DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, catch the missile and take no bludgeoning damage from it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

