# Ogre, Void-Blessed

**description**: A purple-skinned ogre stands hunched over, using boulders to keep itself upright. Its slack jaw filled with yellowed teeth hangs open, with green drool falling out. A dark void sits where its eyes should be, and two tentacles extend from its shoulders. Each tentacle ends in three smaller tentacles, reaching and quivering and sometimes holding it upright. Void-blessed ogres are ogres born in areas filled with the power of the Void or inhabited by dark creatures from the space between the stars. The volatile Void energies blessed these ogres with supernatural senses and two powerful tentacles. These tentacles increase the ogres' senses further when bored into the ground. The tentacles weigh on the Void-blessed ogre physically and mentally, slowing its pace and assaulting its mind with whispers of the Void. These whispers bolster the ogre's mind against outside influences, making it harder to magically control than most of its cousins. Never-Ending Hunger. Void-blessed ogres crave food constantly, and are never satisfied for long before seeking their next meal. They often fear their hunger and overeat in a futile attempt to suppress the hunger pains. During times of stress, a Void-blessed ogre regurgitates the volatile contents of its stomach, creating pools that rot anything they touch. Cultist Allurement. Anyone who touches one of the ogre's tentacles hears the voices of the Void that swim in the ogre's mind. Many cults of the Void grant special places in their ranks for the ogres, feeding them in return for this opportunity to commune with the Void. Similarly, other creatures connected to the Void are drawn to Void-blessed ogres, feeling an innate connection and occasionally deference to the ogre. Keen Hearing and Smell. The ogre has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Tentacle Senses. The Void-blessed ogre can't use its tremorsense while grappled or restrained. Actions Multiattack. The Void-blessed ogre makes one Tentacle Lash attack and one Void Bite attack, or it makes three Void Spit attacks. Tentacle Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn, as jumbled visions and voices of the Void fill its mind. Void Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Void Spit. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) necrotic damage. Reactions Volatile Stomach. When the Void-blessed ogre takes bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, it can regurgitate some of its stomach contents. Each creature within 5 feet of the ogre must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 4 (1d8) necrotic damage and be poisoned until the end of its next turn. A pool of Void-infused stomach contents forms in a space the ogre can see within 5 feet of it and lasts until the start of the ogre's next turn. A creature that enters the pool for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there takes 4 (1d8) necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

