# Ogremoch

**description**: The Prince of Evil Earth is Ogrémoch (pronounced oh-gray-mock), the Mountain that Walks. His natural form is a shambling, 50-foot-tall colossus of rock, with crystal growths embedded throughout his body. When he bothers to speak, his voice sounds like grinding stones. Ogrémoch is a miser who regards all the resources and treasures found in the ground as his own. He holds nothing but contempt for mortals (or any other denizens of the Material Plane) and desires nothing more than to crush and subjugate whomever he encounters. What he can’t crush, he endures and outlasts. Ogrémoch especially resents any mortals that dare to remove valuable metal or stone from the earth, and those who shape or build things of stone. He notices each nugget of gold or raw gemstone removed from areas under his influence, seeking to reclaim treasures “stolen” from him—and to punish the thieves. When the Prince of Evil Earth gains access to the Material Plane through an elemental node, he begins to methodically locate and destroy every mine, quarry, town, or fortification in the area. It’s not that he needs the wealth, but the principle of the thing—extracting treasure from the earth—is anathema to Ogrémoch. Ogrémoch’s Lair Ogrémoch is normally found in the depths of elemental earth, choosing caverns with black crystals and jagged rock spikes to serve as his throne room. He can enter the Material Plane through large and well-established nodes of elemental earth, with a little help from the proper rituals. Within such a node, Ogrémoch wields great power. Lair Actions Ogrémoch can assert his dominion over the rock and stone around him to take lair actions on the Elemental Plane of Earth, or in any elemental earth node (including the Black Geode, described in chapter 5). On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Ogrémoch uses his lair action to cause one of the following effects: A 10-foot-radius area of rocky or earthy ground within 60 feet of Ogrémoch turns to sticky mud. Any creature on the ground in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or sink 5 feet into the mud and be restrained. A creature can take an action to make a DC 15 Strength check, ending the effect on itself or another creature within its reach on a success. Crystalline spikes grow from the ground in a 20-foot-radius area within 60 feet of Ogrémoch. The area becomes difficult terrain. A creature that moves through the affected area takes 1d8 piercing damage for every 5 feet it moves there. Creatures that are knocked prone in the area also take this damage. A violent tremor shakes the lair in a 120-foot-radius around Ogrémoch. Each creature other than Ogrémoch on the ground in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Strength or Dexterity saving throw (target’s choice) or be knocked prone. Regional Effects The region containing an elemental node in which Ogrémoch is present is seriously affected, becoming geologically unstable. This creates the following effects: Earth tremors strike the region within 10 miles of Ogrémoch’s location every 2d12 hours, each lasting 1d10 rounds. At first, damage is minor—broken windows, cracked plaster, items toppled off shelves. The longer Ogrémoch remains, the stronger the tremors become. After 5 days, the tremors are strong enough to destroy flimsy structures. After 10 days, they are strong enough to destroy ordinary wooden buildings. After 20 days, they can seriously damage or destroy reinforced or fortified structures. Magnetic disturbances within 10 miles of Ogrémoch prevent compasses from functioning there. Hidden sinkholes and fissures form within 1 mile of Ogrémoch’s location. A hidden sinkhole can be spotted from a safe distance by any creature with a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 15 or higher or spotted with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check. Otherwise, the first creature to step on the thin crust covering the sinkhole must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall 1d6 × 10 feet into the sinkhole or fissure. Natural caves and tunnels within 1 mile of Ogrémoch’s lair form intermittent portals to the Elemental Plane of Earth, allowing elemental creatures into the mortal world to dwell near those points. If Ogrémoch is destroyed or banished back to his home plane, the regional effects fade over the next 1d10 days. Princes of Elemental Evil For the most part, the elements that make up the world are indifferent to good or evil as mortals understand the concepts. Creatures such as fire elementals can be dangerous and destructive, but they have no particular aim other than to exist. However, some of the primordial powers of the elemental plane are tainted with true evil. These are the princes of Elemental Evil, old and jealous elemental beings that despise the world of living things. Each of the princes is a unique elemental lord of terrible power, and each commands the loyalty of many lesser elementals that have likewise been corrupted by their evil—as well as mortal worshipers who likewise seek to scour the world with the wrath of the elements. Each prince of Elemental Evil is a unique being unlike any other elemental, or any of the other princes. Some embody the combination of elements—for example, Bwimb, the Lord of Ooze, or Cryonax, the Prince of Evil Cold. However, the four princes most strongly associated with the cult of Elemental Evil are malicious embodiments of the four base elements. They are: Imix, Prince of Evil Fire (the All-Consuming Fire, the Eternal Flame) Ogrémoch, Prince of Evil Earth (Tyrant of Black Earth, the Mountain of Doom) Olhydra, Princess of Evil Water (the Crushing Wave, Well of Endless Anguish) Yan-C-Bin, Prince of Evil Air (the Shadow of the Four Winds, the Howling Hatred) Forces of Destruction. The princes aren’t concerned with spreading wickedness among mortals or making any kind of order or philosophy dominant in the world. Their evil is blind, destructive, and hungry. They hate the way the world is made and the natural laws that constrain their favored elements. They resent the gods who shaped the world, and the mortals for whom the world was shaped, especially mortals who seek to impose their will on the elements. The princes unleash natural catastrophes at every opportunity, and gladly crush or devour mortals to assert their mastery over the world. Uncooperative. While the princes of Elemental Evil share a love of destruction and hatred of mortals, they don’t cooperate with each other. Each is concerned only with advancing his or her own favored element. At best they are indifferent to each other, but each prince hates the prince representing the element opposite to its own (fire and water, or air and earth), and often goes to great lengths to block its enemy’s efforts or destroy its enemy’s followers. The Elder Elemental Eye. While the princes of Elemental Evil act independently of each other, there is a mysterious force that seems to link them together: the Elder Elemental Eye. Some sages believe that the Eye is a dark, primordial god that corrupted the elements in the beginning of the world, giving rise to each of the princes. Others hold that the Elder Elemental Eye is a binding force—a common fate, or perhaps a curse— that ties the princes together. Whenever one aspect of Elemental Evil takes root in the world, the other three soon follow, and the four cults are often found together despite their mutual antipathy. Elemental Nodes. The princes of Elemental Evil seek to spread their power by sowing the seeds of elemental nodes throughout the world. Elemental nodes are places in the Material Plane that are suffused with energy from the Elemental Planes. For example, a subterranean magma chamber or a swamp with flaming gas seeps might be an elemental node of fire. Elemental nodes are like beachheads for the elemental princes, places from which they can reshape part of the world to their own tastes and wreak destruction on whatever is nearby. When an elemental prince succeeds in establishing a node, it channels its power—and its elemental minions— to that spot, spreading Elemental Evil like a cancer in the firmament of the world. Worshiped by Cults. The princes of Elemental Evil are indifferent to mortal followers. They aren’t gods and don’t crave worship, but evil mortals find that Elemental Evil is a ready source of magical power and lends itself to destructive uses. Cultists often gather near elemental nodes and attempt perilous rituals to tap into the power of Elemental Evil or attract the attention of one of the princes. These fell beings don’t hear prayers or grant spells, but they can serve as sources of power to those who learn to draw on their might. More often than not, the princes of Elemental Evil wind up destroying the mortals who called on them. Until they do, clever (or crazed) cultists can do a great deal of harm with the elemental power they borrow. Traits Empowered Attacks. Ogrémoch’s slam attacks are treated as magical and adamantine for the purpose of bypassing resistance and immunity to nonmagical weapons. Innate Spellcasting. Ogrémoch’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: meld into stone, move earth, wall of stone Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Ogrémoch fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Ogrémoch has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Siege Monster. Ogrémoch deals double damage to objects and structures with his melee and ranged weapon attacks. Actions Multiattack. Ogrémoch makes two slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit : 30 (4d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Boulder. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 500 ft., one target. Hit: 46 (7d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Summon Elementals (1/Day). Ogrémoch summons up to three earth elementals and loses 30 hit points for each elemental he summons. Summoned elementals have maximum hit points, appear within 100 feet of Ogrémoch, and disappear if Ogrémoch is reduced to 0 hit points. Legendary Actions Ogrémoch can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Ogrémoch regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Illuminating Crystals. Ogrémoch’s crystalline protrusions flare. Each creature within 30 feet of Ogrémoch becomes outlined in orange light, shedding dim light in a 10-foot radius. Any attack roll against an affected creature has advantage if the attacker can see it, and the affected creature can’t benefit from being invisible. Stomp (Costs 2 Actions). Ogrémoch stomps the ground, creating an earth tremor that extends in a 30-foot radius. Other creatures standing on the ground in that radius must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. Create Gargoyle (Costs 3 Actions). Ogrémoch’s hit points are reduced by 50 as he breaks off a chunk of his body and places it on the ground in an unoccupied space within 15 feet of him. The chunk of rock instantly transforms into a gargoyle and acts on the same initiative count as Ogrémoch. Ogrémoch can’t use this action if he has 50 hit points or fewer. The gargoyle obeys Ogrémoch’s commands and fights until destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

