# Ogre Warped Behemoth

**description**: This enormous, malformed giant stands nearly half again as tall as others of its kind. Its hairy hide is covered in oozing sores and swollen pustules. One of its arms is longer than the other, knuckles trailing on the ground. Almost all the creatures caught in magical cataclysms are debilitated or killed by the terrible transformations that wrack their bodies. Rarely, a particularly durable or lucky specimen is warped into an even mightier creature from its exposure to the energy. Greatly enhanced in size and strength and imbued with (mostly) beneficial new abilities, these creatures are known as warped behemoths. Ruled by Hunger. Most warped behemoths are solitary creatures motivated only by their own needs. The common reaction of a behemoth to other creatures is violence, as it lashes out in rage or in an attempt to consume enemies to sate its hunger. Occasionally, a warped behemoth has or develops the presence of mind to cooperate with other creatures. Most often, a behemoth allies with those of its original type, but any creatures resourceful enough to meet a warped behemoth’s needs have a chance to gain a powerful ally so long as they keep the creature fed. BEHEMOTH BODY DISTORTIONS d10 Body Distortion 1 The creature’s natural armor increases by 1. 2 The creature gains resistance to one of the following damage types (roll a d6): (1) acid, (2) cold, (3) fire, (4) lightning, (5) poison, or (6) thunder. 3 The creature gains resistance to nonmagical damage of one of the following types (roll a d6): (1–2) bludgeoning, (3–4) piercing, or (5–6) slashing. The creature’s attacks count as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance or immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage. 4 The creature gains darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If the creature already had darkvision, its range increases by 30 feet instead. 5 The creature gains a climbing speed equal to its walking speed. If the creature already had a climbing speed, it is doubled instead. 6 The creature grows fleshy wings and gains a flying speed equal to its walking speed. If the creature already had a flying speed, a burrowing speed, or a swimming speed, treat this result as no effect. 7 The creature grows multiple eyes and gains advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 8 The creature gains advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 9 The creature grows an oversized limb and gains a Slam attack. This attack has a reach of 10 feet for a Small or smaller creature or 15 feet for a Medium or larger creature. The attack deals bludgeoning damage based on the behemoth’s size (1d6 for Medium, 1d8 for Large, 1d10 for Huge, or 1d12 for Gargantuan). 10 Roll one additional time on this table. A creature can’t have more than three body warps. TRAITS Body Distortions. This ogre warped behemoth has body distortions that grant it a Slam attack and resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning damage. Virulent Pustules. When the behemoth takes piercing or slashing damage, the pustules on its hide erupt in a noxious spray. Each creature within 5 feet of the behemoth must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 3 poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half damage and isn’t poisoned. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. ACTIONS Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

