# Old Brown Dragon

**description**: Brown Dragon Often referred to by desert nomads as the great desert dragon or sand dragon, the brown dragon is a cunning creature, but it is also haughty, irritable, paranoid, and slothful. It provides for itself in whatever way requires the least inconvenience and steers clear of unnecessary trouble. It makes its home in underground caverns and the ruins of ancient cities buried beneath the wastelands. Desert Predator. The brown dragon is a flightless creature that swims under vast desert sands like a bloodthirsty shark at sea. Its scales are leathery and softer than the typical dragon's metallic-like ones and have the color that matches its natural hunting grounds, ranging from dark brown at birth to dull light brown in their old age. The brown dragon has four short, muscular limbs that end with webbed claws suitable for digging through the sand and a pair of leathery wing vestiges at the back of its shoulders. A few lucky survivors who survived a brown dragon's attack recall seeing twin dorsal-like fins, which were the dragon's wings, cutting through the sand during its approach. Ambush Hunter. The brown dragon consumes minerals but prefers meat. It particularly relishes the taste of livestock, especially camels and horses. It will go to great lengths to attack caravans and herders but is careful enough to do so only in isolated areas and to not leave any survivors to avoid attracting unwanted attention, such as a party of adventurers. The brown dragon hunts by burying itself in the sand, waiting patiently until it senses vibrations caused by a prey's movement, after which it explodes from its hiding place, showering sand everywhere as it leaps toward its target. The brown dragon's breath is a line of highly corrosive sand that can also blind those that are hit by it. Prey, Foes, and Allies. The brown dragon is fiercely territorial and will slay and consume other burrowing predatory creatures such as ankhegs, bulettes, kruthiks, and umber hulks. It tolerates the presence of oozes and ooze elementals, as well as desert-dwelling vermin like giant antlions and scorpions, only because the brown dragon doesn't see them as competition or threat to its well-being and treasure hoard. The brown dragon dislikes other dragons, though, and especially hates and fears blue dragons, which often shares its territory with them. If an older blue dragon threatens it, the brown dragon will establish a new lair, move its treasure, and abandon its old home. Aloof and Self-Serving. The brown dragon sees anything weaker than itself as nothing more than prey. It does not care much for speaking with other intelligent creatures, especially adventurers, as it finds it odd and beneath itself to talk to its food. If it does participate in a conversation, the brown dragon will feign boredom and disinterest and even toy with whoever it is talking to, subtly steering topics to potential prey, treasure, and threats. A Brown Dragon's Lair Brown dragons keep their lairs underneath desolate deserts and coastal beaches, using their lightning-quick burrowing claws and acidic breath to form a vast, maze-like network of caverns. Stagnant pools of acid and noxious gases plague the brown dragon’s lair, discouraging all but the hardiest of trespassers. Oozes, ooze paraelementals, as well as swarms of scarabs, scorpions, and similar vermin, infest its numerous tunnels. Like blue dragons, the brown dragons will cause cave-ins if their lairs are invaded by dangerous foes, only to return when confident their enemies are all dead from suffocation and injury from being trapped underneath tons of sand. The challenge rating of a legendary brown dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Part of the ceiling collapses above one creature that the dragon can see within 120 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone and buried. The buried target is restrained and unable to breathe or stand up. A creature can take an action to make a DC 10 Strength check, ending the buried state on a success. A cloud of sand swirls about in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet of it. The cloud spreads around corners. Each creature in the cloud must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Noxious chlorine gases form a cloud in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet of it. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is lightly obscured. It lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. Each creature that starts its turn in the cloud must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of its turn. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary brown dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Sandstorms rage within 6 miles of the lair. Ooze paraelementals scour the land within 6 miles of the lair. Hidden sinkholes form in and around the dragon’s lair. A sinkhole can be spotted from a safe distance with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Otherwise, the first creature to step on the thin crust covering the sinkhole must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall 1d6 × 10 feet into the sinkhole. If the dragon dies, the ooze paraelementals disappear immediately, and the sandstorms abate within 1d10 days. Any sinkholes remain where they are. Traits Hold Breath. The dragon can hold its breath for 1 hour or until it uses its Acid Breath. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Sand Camouflage. The dragon has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in sandy terrain. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) acid damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Acid Breath (Recharge 5-6). The dragon exhales corrosive sand in a 90-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that area must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 58 (13d8) acid damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The dragon makes a Tail attack. Sand Tornado (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon burrows into the ground in a violent circling motion, whipping its tail and spraying sand around it. Each creature within 15 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 16 (2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be blinded until the end of its next turn. The dragon can then move up to its burrow speed. 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

