# Olhydra

**description**: Olhydra is the Princess of Evil Water. Sometimes known as the Crushing Wave, the Dark Tide, or the Well of Endless Anguish, she takes the form of a great wave, 20 feet high and 15 feet wide, with opalescent eyes. She prefers to remain in or near large bodies of water—seas, lakes, rivers, or sometimes great subterranean pools. When she needs to, she can surge onto dry land, moving much like a wave rushing up onto the shore, but only great anger or desperation would drive Olhydra to move more than a few hundred feet from her native element. Olhydra surges forth tirelessly and relentlessly. She delights in creating dangerous and destructive manifestations of elemental water, especially maelstroms and floods. She is eager to assert her power by smashing any vessel that dares to venture into her realm, and lays waste to villages or towns established within her reach. Olhydra erodes that which she can’t batter and drown; she is patient, retreating in the face of adversity only to return stronger than before. Of all the Princes of Elemental Evil, Olhydra is the one most interested in mortals. She recognizes that pirates and raiders who redden the waters with mortal blood (and occasionally send treasure-laden ships into her clutches) are agents of her hateful outlook, whether they know it or not. Consequently, Olhydra sometimes spares the worst sort of seafarers from her wrath, patiently waiting for the day when they deliver others into her power. Olhydra’s Lair The Princess of Evil Water is native to the Elemental Plane of Water, where she can be found in the black depths of vast seas or enthroned among jagged reefs. Olhydra waits for the chance to enter the Material Plane through elemental water nodes or when called by the proper rituals. Whether she is in her elemental domain or temporarily occupying a water node, Olhydra commands the waters around her and can shape them to her will. Lair Actions Olhydra can command the waters around herself to take lair actions on the Elemental Plane of Water, or in any elemental water node (such as the Plunging Torrents, described in chapter 5). On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Olhydra uses her lair action to cause one of the following effects: Pools of water in the lair surge outward in a grasping tide. Any creature within 20 feet of such a pool must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 20 feet into the water and knocked prone. Water within 120 feet of Olhydra becomes murky and opaque until initiative count 20 of the next round. A creature with darkvision can’t see through the water, and light can’t illuminate it. A freezing fog fills a 40-foot-radius sphere within 120 feet of Olhydra, lasting until initiative count 20 of the next round. Creatures and objects within or beyond the fog are heavily obscured. A creature that enters the freezing cloud for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there takes 10 (3d6) cold damage. Regional Effects Olhydra’s presence in an elemental node creates a number of widespread effects—bad weather, strong tides, and increasing aggression from dangerous sea life. Violent downpours become frequent within 10 miles of the lair. A downpour occurs once every 2d12 hours, and lasts 1d3 hours. Downpours are so heavy that creatures moving overland travel at half normal speed. Within 5 miles of the lair, currents and tides are exceptionally strong and treacherous. Any ability checks made to safely navigate or control a vessel moving through these waters has disadvantage. Aquatic creatures that have an Intelligence score of 2 or lower within 1 mile of the lair must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw when they enter the area. If the saving throw succeeds, the creature is frightened and attempts to leave the area, remaining frightened while within it. On a failure, the creature becomes highly aggressive and remains in the area for 24 hours. While in this state, the creature gains advantage on saving throws against charm and fear effects. Natural springs and pools within 1 mile of the lair form intermittent portals to the Elemental Plane of Water, allowing elemental creatures into the mortal world to dwell near those points. If Olhydra is destroyed or banished back to her home plane, the regional effects fade over the next 1d10 days. Princes of Elemental Evil For the most part, the elements that make up the world are indifferent to good or evil as mortals understand the concepts. Creatures such as fire elementals can be dangerous and destructive, but they have no particular aim other than to exist. However, some of the primordial powers of the elemental plane are tainted with true evil. These are the princes of Elemental Evil, old and jealous elemental beings that despise the world of living things. Each of the princes is a unique elemental lord of terrible power, and each commands the loyalty of many lesser elementals that have likewise been corrupted by their evil—as well as mortal worshipers who likewise seek to scour the world with the wrath of the elements. Each prince of Elemental Evil is a unique being unlike any other elemental, or any of the other princes. Some embody the combination of elements—for example, Bwimb, the Lord of Ooze, or Cryonax, the Prince of Evil Cold. However, the four princes most strongly associated with the cult of Elemental Evil are malicious embodiments of the four base elements. They are: Imix, Prince of Evil Fire (the All-Consuming Fire, the Eternal Flame) Ogrémoch, Prince of Evil Earth (Tyrant of Black Earth, the Mountain of Doom) Olhydra, Princess of Evil Water (the Crushing Wave, Well of Endless Anguish) Yan-C-Bin, Prince of Evil Air (the Shadow of the Four Winds, the Howling Hatred) Forces of Destruction. The princes aren’t concerned with spreading wickedness among mortals or making any kind of order or philosophy dominant in the world. Their evil is blind, destructive, and hungry. They hate the way the world is made and the natural laws that constrain their favored elements. They resent the gods who shaped the world, and the mortals for whom the world was shaped, especially mortals who seek to impose their will on the elements. The princes unleash natural catastrophes at every opportunity, and gladly crush or devour mortals to assert their mastery over the world. Uncooperative. While the princes of Elemental Evil share a love of destruction and hatred of mortals, they don’t cooperate with each other. Each is concerned only with advancing his or her own favored element. At best they are indifferent to each other, but each prince hates the prince representing the element opposite to its own (fire and water, or air and earth), and often goes to great lengths to block its enemy’s efforts or destroy its enemy’s followers. The Elder Elemental Eye. While the princes of Elemental Evil act independently of each other, there is a mysterious force that seems to link them together: the Elder Elemental Eye. Some sages believe that the Eye is a dark, primordial god that corrupted the elements in the beginning of the world, giving rise to each of the princes. Others hold that the Elder Elemental Eye is a binding force—a common fate, or perhaps a curse— that ties the princes together. Whenever one aspect of Elemental Evil takes root in the world, the other three soon follow, and the four cults are often found together despite their mutual antipathy. Elemental Nodes. The princes of Elemental Evil seek to spread their power by sowing the seeds of elemental nodes throughout the world. Elemental nodes are places in the Material Plane that are suffused with energy from the Elemental Planes. For example, a subterranean magma chamber or a swamp with flaming gas seeps might be an elemental node of fire. Elemental nodes are like beachheads for the elemental princes, places from which they can reshape part of the world to their own tastes and wreak destruction on whatever is nearby. When an elemental prince succeeds in establishing a node, it channels its power—and its elemental minions— to that spot, spreading Elemental Evil like a cancer in the firmament of the world. Worshiped by Cults. The princes of Elemental Evil are indifferent to mortal followers. They aren’t gods and don’t crave worship, but evil mortals find that Elemental Evil is a ready source of magical power and lends itself to destructive uses. Cultists often gather near elemental nodes and attempt perilous rituals to tap into the power of Elemental Evil or attract the attention of one of the princes. These fell beings don’t hear prayers or grant spells, but they can serve as sources of power to those who learn to draw on their might. More often than not, the princes of Elemental Evil wind up destroying the mortals who called on them. Until they do, clever (or crazed) cultists can do a great deal of harm with the elemental power they borrow. Traits Empowered Attacks. Olhydra’s slam attacks are treated as magical for the purpose of bypassing resistance and immunity to nonmagical weapons. Innate Spellcasting. Olhydra’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: wall of ice 3/day: ice storm 1/day: storm of vengeance Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Olhydra fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Olhydra has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Water Form. Olhydra can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop there. She can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Actions Multiattack. Olhydra makes two slam attacks or two water jet attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 19). Olhydra can grapple up to four targets. When Olhydra moves, all creatures she is grappling move with her. Water Jet. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit : 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage, and the target is knocked prone if it fails a DC 19 Strength saving throw. Summon Elementals (1/Day). Olhydra summons up to three water elementals and loses 30 hit points for each elemental she summons. Summoned elementals have maximum hit points, appear within 100 feet of Olhydra, and disappear if Olhydra is reduced to 0 hit points. Legendary Actions Olhydra can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Olhydra regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Crush. One creature that Olhydra is grappling is crushed for 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Fling (Costs 2 Actions). Olhydra releases one creature she is grappling by flinging the creature up to 60 feet away from her, in a direction of her choice. If the flung creature comes into contact with a solid surface, such as a wall or floor, the creature takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was flung. Water to Acid (Costs 3 Actions). Olhydra transforms her watery body into acid. This effect lasts until Olhydra’s next turn. Any creature that comes into contact with Olhydra or hits her with a melee attack while standing within 5 feet of her takes 11 (2d10) acid damage. Any creature grappled by Olhydra takes 22 (4d10) acid damage at the start of its turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

