# Olothec

**description**: When I return you to your primal state, you will thank me and then beg to serve. You will help others see that the only way forward is a return to the ancient times. Ithu’rath the All-Seeing Content Warning: Body Horror Most olothec are creatures of incomprehensible evil who use their psionic might to reshape the flesh of their enemies. Their stat blocks contain strong elements of body horror. You should feel free to modify any of these effects for the safety of you and your players. Protean in form, beings of nearly pure intellect, the old ones think in alien geometric logic. Their name for themselves is unrecorded, but sages believe they are the oldest beings in the timescape and simply call them “old ones.” Synlirii refer to them as olothec (OH-luh-thek)—“ancient enemies.” But some humanoid scholars have noted this term bears an uncanny similarity to another archaic synlirii word meaning “ancient ancestor.” Immortal Evil. Across countless cultures and ancestries, olothec feature in nightmares and temple friezes alike. While their origins are obscure and may never be known, their hatred of the Mundane World and every living thing in it is well recorded. Olothec channel psionic energy beyond any mortal power, surpassing even the voiceless talkers. To them, a living creature who can’t reshape their own flesh is repugnant, an unnatural abomination requiring eradication—or transformation. Agents of Chaos. Olothec consider the primordial chaos that spawned them as the ideal state of existence. They have long warred against the voiceless talkers, loathing their constant manipulation and refinement of evolutionary forces. Where olothec lair in forgotten sea tunnels and beneath ancient ruins, they surround themselves with slime servants—humanoids, beasts, aberrations, and others, all devolved to a perfect physical and mental state. Primordial Form. At first sight, an olothec seems like little more than a rippling mass of tentacles, twisting around each other like a shifting shroud. Creatures who get too close discover each of those tentacles ends in a ravenous mouth set with razor-sharp teeth. Each mouth is tipped by a cluster of three eyes that focus the olothec’s relentless attacks. In water or on land, fetid slime coats the aberration, protecting them against attackers and acting as a conduit for their fearsome psionic power. Mutations of the Flesh. Millennia of practice allow olothec to perfect their psionic abilities that devolve and transform their victims into primordial life forms. Exposure to the psionic slime of an olothec’s tentacles can change a creature into a mindless, ooze-covered thrall. The olothec also has a special power that can transform humanoids into hybrid fish people. The most powerful olothec have unique powers that further warp flesh. Traits Amphibious. The olothec can breathe air and water. Immutable Form. The olothec is immune to any power, spell, or effect that would alter their form. Supernatural Resistance. The olothec has advantage on saving throws against supernatural effects. Actions Multiattack. The olothec makes six Devolving Tentacle attacks and uses Piscine Transformation. Devolving Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage. The first time a creature is hit with this attack on a turn, they must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be injected with a degenerative psionic slime (save ends at end of turn). While slimed, each time the creature makes an attack roll or an ability check, they must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the d20 roll. At the end of a slimed creature’s turn, the size of the subtracted die increases by one: the d4 becomes a d6, the d6 becomes a d8, and so on, to a maximum of d12. The cure ailment power or lesser restoration spell also ends this effect. *Piscine Transformation ( 3 rd-Order Power). The olothec targets a Humanoid they can see within 60 feet of them with a pulse of transformational energy. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or undergo one of the following transformations of the olothec’s choice: Head. The target’s head transforms into the head of a fish, proportionately sized for their body. They can’t speak. Legs. The target’s legs become fins. Their walking speed is reduced to 10 feet (unless their walking speed is slower), and they gain a swimming speed of 30 feet. Torso. The target’s torso becomes the body of a fish with gills. They can only breathe water and can hold their breath for 1 hour. If the target isn’t underwater when this transformation takes effect, they begin suffocating. This transformation lasts until the target is affected by a cure ailment power of 4th order or higher or a greater restoration spell. A target who suffers all three transformations at once is permanently transformed into a hybrid fishlike creature and can only be returned to their original form by a wish spell or similar magic. Bonus Action Jaunt ( 3 rd-Order Power). The olothec teleports 30 feet to an unoccupied space they can see. Slime Servants If a creature spends 1 continuous minute under the effect of the slime from an olothec’s Devolving Tentacle attack, that effect ends and their flesh devolves into a translucent primordial state. The creature loses their memories and sense of self, becoming a slime servant NPC who is loyal to the olothec. The slime servant retains all their original statistics and gains the following traits: Amphibious. The slime servant can breathe air and water. They gain a swimming speed equal to their walking speed (if they didn’t already have an equal or greater swimming speed). Primordial Mind. The slime servant can’t be charmed or frightened. Servant Senses. The olothec can sense anything the slime servant senses, and if the slime servant can speak, the olothec can speak through their body. Only a wish spell can restore a slime servant’s memories and return them to their original state. You can apply this slime servant template to any creature—perhaps even a beloved NPC, foreshadowing the fate awaiting player characters if they fail to defeat an olothec foe!

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

