# Oma Rattenfanger

**description**: Oma Rattenfanger resembles a small, plump, motherly elf with a kind smile and cold, wicked eyes. She wears a well-made, clean but slightly worn dress with a large skirt and a matching bonnet-style cap. Oma's slightly iridescent wings give away that she was once a pixie, though her time in the Shadow Realm has significantly changed her. The fey has a fondness for young lost souls who make their way to the Shadow Realm, and she eagerly takes them under her wing. Traits Tenebrous Plain. Oma Rattenfanger staked her claim in the Tenebrous Plain a great time ago. Since then, the plain has grown and shifted under her care, giving her orphans a home where they can thrive. With the addition of other creatures over the centuries, Oma's power in the Tenebrous Plain has only grown. Her home is a small, thatched hut that can appear wherever she wants on the plain. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Oma fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Shadowy Weapons. Oma's weapon attacks are magical. When Oma hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d8 necrotic damage (included in the attack). ACTIONS Multiattack. Oma makes two Mentor's Cane attacks or one Mentor's Cane attack and one Scold attack. Mentor's Cane. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Scold. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) psychic damage. Call Children (1/Day). Oma magically calls 2d4 skeletons or zombies or one orphan of the black (see Tome of Beasts 2 ). The called creatures arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting as allies of Oma and obeying her spoken commands. The creatures remain for 1 hour or until Oma dies or dismisses them as a bonus action. Invisibility. Oma turns invisible until she attacks or uses Call Children or until her concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment she wears or carries is invisible with her. Spellcasting. Oma casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: charm person , command , create food and water , dancing lights , druidcraft 3/day each: bane , bless , confusion , detect thoughts , silence , zone of truth 1/day each: black tentacles , blight , plant growth Bonus actions Keeper of the Children. Oma instructs one allied skeleton , zombie , or orphan of the black (see Tome of Beasts 2 ) within 30 feet of her to make one attack as a reaction against a creature Oma attacked this round. LEGENDARY ACTIONS Oma Rattenfanger can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Oma regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn: Flight. Oma flies up to half her flying speed. Mentor's Cane. Oma makes one Mentor's Cane attack. Time to Play. Oma commands all skeletons , zombies , and orphans of the black (see Tome of Beasts 2 ) she controls within 60 feet of her to move up to half their speed. A creature that moves out of an enemy's reach because of this movement doesn't provoke an opportunity attack. Oma Knows Best (Costs 2 Actions). Oma targets one creature she can see within 30 feet of her. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Charisma saving throw or be charmed for 1 minute. The charmed target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to Oma Knows Best for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

