# One-Eyed Nardahr

**description**: “I eat meaters like yous for breakfast. Keep your hands off my angst, or I’ll stick them up your ass. Why in tarnation am I dealing with this? I got a fucking gang, don’t I?” Nardahr is a middle-aged mad man who towers at over 6 feet tall. He is quite elegant-looking and does not hesitate to show his wealth by wearing top-quality clothes and an extravaganza of jewelry. He has a vertical scar on his face, specifically on his left eye, instead of which he has an angst crystal that allows him to see. His right eye is purple and it creates a nice contrast with his dark clothings. He is known as One-Eyed Nardahr in Tolia, and although he has a surname as well, he keeps it secret. He is one of the primary angst traders and mob bosses in this region owing to his political connections. Nardahr’s Story Nardahr was born in a great city far far away from the region of Tolia, where the people didn’t spill blood unless it was a matter of life and death. This is the only thing Nardahr tells people about where he came from, as talking about the city he grew up in reminds him of his sorrowful past. Nardahr’s family was among the angst traders of his hometown, which was covered in angst deposits. Nardahr’s parents did not trade with other cities such as Kanrath and Cyherested, as they knew that people would use their goods to spill blood there. However, Nardahr and his sister Nyra thought that they should add to their trade routes. Nardahr was a greedy fellow even before his adolescence. He planned a scheme with Nyra and assassinated his own parents to seize the wealth of his family. Spilling blood was a sin, so Nardahr suffocated his parents in their sleep, and felt no remorse. Nyra’s conscience, however, was severely bruised as a result of their actions. She thought Nardahr would share in her remorse but the angst crystal he had for an eye since childhood had turned him into an angry man. Nyra, knowing that she would be killed after a dispute with her brother, left Nardahr one day, never to return. Nardahr mourned the loss of his family, but he moved on. He gathered mercenaries, built strong and reliable connections with other traders, thugs, and city officials in Tolia. Now, he is one of the prominent angst traders of the region with a bloody mob that protects his business. Nardahr’s Goals Nardahr has no interest in heavenly pleasures. His only goal is to live a life full of success and luxury. He aims to increase the wealth of his business and protect it at all costs. Nardahr has a mob and political connections in every city he trades in; they protect the business and Nardahr from inner and outer threats. Roleplaying Nardahr Nardahr is a short-tempered man. It is believed that being in constant contact with an angst crystal has made him so. He talks fast and uses swear words often, especially when he is unduly angry. He lives in the best taverns in the cities and comfort is of top priority for him. Nardahr in Combat Other than his reliable mob, Nardahr has 3 faithful companions with him at all times. These are half-dragon mercenaries that have protected Nardahr for more than ten years. You can use the half-red dragon veteran’s stat block to represent these mercenaries. In combat, these three mercenaries interfere if possible. If Nardahr believes he cannot survive in battle, he flees using his magic items.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

