# Oni Night Haunter

**description**: The night haunter is an insidious oni that prefers to slay its victims in their sleep. The Bogeyman. The oni night haunter begins by assuming a humanoid form that is friendly to its location before entering a settlement. After successfully injecting itself into the community and earning the trust of its folk, it begins haunting them one by one in their dreams. The oni targets the children first, as these are its favorites to devour. Only when it has slain one using its Nightmare Haunting ability does it materialize to feast on the victim's corpse. It continues to repeat this process, stopping only if it feels it is in danger of being discovered. Traits Magic Weapons. The oni's weapon attacks are magical. Regeneration. The oni regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Soul Devourer. The oni devours the souls of the victims it has slain through its Nightmare Haunting. Only through a wish spell, or by slaying the oni, can the victims' souls be free and willing to be resurrected. Actions Multiattack. The oni makes two attacks, either with its Claw or with its Morningstar. Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage. Claw (Oni Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or fall unconscious. The creature remains unconscious for 1 minute, or until it takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the creature awake. Spellcasting. The oni casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: darkness, invisibility 2/day each: charm person, ray of enfeeblement, sleep 1/day each: cone of cold, gaseous form, plane shift (self only) Change Shape. The oni magically transforms into a Small or Medium humanoid, into a Large Giant, or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. The only equipment that is transformed is its weapon, which shrinks so that it can be wielded in humanoid form. This transformation ends if the oni is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Nightmare Haunting (1/Day). While on the Ethereal Plane, the oni magically touches a sleeping humanoid on the Material Plane. A protection from evil and good spell cast on the target prevents this contact, as does a magic circle . As long as the contact persists, the target has dreadful visions. If these visions last for at least 1 hour, the target gains no benefit from its rest, and its hit point maximum is reduced by 5 (1d10). If this effect reduces the target's hit point maximum to 0, the target dies, and the oni gains 3d10 temporary hit points. The oni's temporary hit points last for 12 hours. The reduction to the target's hit point maximum lasts until removed by the greater restoration spell or similar magic. Reactions Fade into Mist (Recharge 5–6). When hit by an attack roll, the attack instead misses and the oni turns into a gaseous form and moves up to 60 feet away to an unoccupied space it can see. While in this form, the oni can enter the space of another creature and has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through small holes, narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target can't fall and remains hovering in the air even when stunned or otherwise incapacitated. While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can't talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or holding can't be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. It remains in this form until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

