# Oni Vrykolakas

**description**: When an evil dragon, giant, or monstrosity is cursed and magically slain by a demon lord, it may rise as a vrykolakas if the demon lord wills it. At first, this powerful undead creature resembles its original form but with pale skin and bloodshot eyes. The vrykolakas has the ability to shift into its hybrid form, where it creature transforms into a more feral-looking creature with vampire bat-like features. In this form, the vrykolakas gains bat-like wings, fangs, and ears. Unlike a regular vampire, the vrykolakas has only Sunlight Hypersensitivity as a weakness. The vrykolakas exists to serve its master that spawned it and only gains its freedom if its master is destroyed. Traits Magic Weapons. The vrykolakas's weapon attacks are magical. Regeneration. The vrykolakas regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in sunlight. If the vrykolakas takes radiant damage or damage from holy water, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the vrykolakas’s next turn. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The vrykolakas takes 20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Actions Multiattack. The vrykolakas makes one Bite attack and two Claw or Glaive attacks. Bite (Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vrykolakas regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Claw (Oni or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage, or 10 (1d10 + 5) slashing damage in Small or Medium form. Spellcasting. The vrykolakas casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: darkness, invisibility 1/day each: charm person, cone of cold, gaseous form, sleep Bonus Actions Aura of Horror (Hybrid Form Only). Each creature of the vrykolakas’s choice within 30 feet of the vrykolakas must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, the creature's speed is halved, can't use reactions, can't make more than one attack per turn, and can use either an action or a bonus action during its turns, not both. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this vrykolakas' Aura of Horror for the next 24 hours. Change Shape. The vrykolakas polymorphs into a hybrid vampire bat, Small or Medium Humanoid, Large Giant, or back into its true form. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

