# Oni Lord

**description**: The oni lord, also known as the oni omo, is a powerful ogre magi that rules over all other oni in its territory. It is a highly intelligent battle commander and spends most of its time organizing and planning excursions into enemy communities. It lives in a well-guarded magical keep created by its mighty fortress spell, where it keeps all its treasure and enslaved concubines. He is never without his oni magi bodyguards. Traits Greater Spell Penetration. If the oni casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 5 levels higher. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the oni fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons. The oni's weapon attacks are magical. Regeneration. The oni regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Actions Multiattack. The oni makes two melee attacks. Alternatively, it can make one melee attack and use Spellcasting. Claw (Oni Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The oni casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks) and it needs only verbal components to cast its spells: At will: darkness, invisibility, mage hand, minor illusion 2/day each: charm person, cone of cold, gaseous form, sleep 1/day each: chain lightning, charm monster, dimension door, dispel magic, dominate person, stoneskin, mighty fortress, power word stun, steel wind strike, thunder step, whirlwind Change Shape. The oni magically transforms into a Small or Medium humanoid, into a Large Giant, or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. The only equipment that is transformed is its weapon, which shrinks so that it can be wielded in humanoid form. This transformation ends if the oni is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Legendary Actions The oni can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The oni regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The oni makes a Claw or Greatsword attack. Command. The oni targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the oni, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack with advantage on the attack roll. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The oni uses Spellcasting. Reactions Fade into Mist (Recharge 5–6). When hit by an attack roll, the attack instead misses and the oni turns into a gaseous form and moves up to 60 feet away to an unoccupied space it can see. While in this form, the oni can enter the space of another creature and has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has advantage on 5trength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through small holes, narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target can't fall and remains hovering in the air even when stunned or otherwise incapacitated. While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can't talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or holding can't be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. It remains in this form until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

