# Oni Yama-Uba

**description**: The oni yama-uba, also known as the demon hag, is a bloodthirsty, cunning, and very patient hunter. It is a devourer of human flesh and is particularly fond of eating children, especially the very portly ones. Two-Faced Killers. It always appears as a female hermit or solitary crone living deep in the forested mountains. When encountered, it appears friendly and accommodating, offering real food and its home as a safe refuge to spend the night. It will even offer to heal any wounded, providing them with curing salves. Once it has earned the trust of its would-be victims, the oni yama-uba then finds ways to draw out and divide the group. Once it has isolated one or two victims away from its companions, it reveals its true form and attacks. Traits Horrific Appearance. Any humanoid that starts its turn within 30 feet of the oni and can see the oni's true form must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the oni is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the oni's Horrific Appearance for the next 24 hours. Unless the target is surprised or the revelation of the oni's true form is sudden, the target can avert its eyes and avoid making the initial saving throw. Until the start of its next turn, a creature that averts its eyes has disadvantage on attack rolls against the oni. Magic Weapons. The oni's weapon attacks are magical. Regeneration. The oni regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Actions Multiattack. The oni makes two Claw attacks. Claw (Oni Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage. Death Glare. The oni targets one frightened creature she can see within 30 feet of her. If the target can see the oni, it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or drop to 0 hit points. Spellcasting. The oni casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: darkness, invisibility 2/day: charm person, ray of enfeeblement, spirit guardians, sleep 1/day each: cone of cold, gaseous form Change Shape. The oni magically transforms into a Small or Medium humanoid, into a Large Giant, or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the oni is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Maddening Cackle (Recharge 5–6). Each creature within 30 feet of the oni and able to hear the oni must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 17 (3d8 + 4) psychic damage, and must use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make a melee weapon attack against one creature of the oni's choice that the oni can see. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Reactions Fade into Mist (Recharge 5–6). When hit by an attack roll, the attack instead misses and the oni turns into a gaseous form and moves up to 60 feet away to an unoccupied space it can see. While in this form, the oni can enter the space of another creature and has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has advantage on 5trength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through small holes, narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target can't fall and remains hovering in the air even when stunned or otherwise incapacitated. While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can't talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or holding can't be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. It remains in this form until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

