# Oni Magi

**description**: Oni magi are advanced oni that have improved martial and spellcasting abilities. These oni actively recruit, unite, and command evil humanoid and giant tribes to raid civilized settlements. The oni magi aim to capture folk, using them as slaves as well as food to devour. They are often found working with ogres, trolls, and hill giants. Traits Magic Weapons. The oni's weapon attacks are magical. Regeneration. The oni regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Spell Penetration. If the oni casts a spell and is interrupted by an enemy's counterspell , treat the spell's level as 3 levels higher. Actions Multiattack. The oni makes two melee attacks. Alternatively, it can make one melee attack and use Spellcasting. Claw (Oni Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage. Spiked Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) slashing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the oni can automatically hit the target with its Spiked Chain but can't make Spiked Chain attacks against other targets. Spiked Chain Slam. The oni slams a Large or smaller creature grappled by its spiked chain into another creature or a solid surface within 20 feet. Both creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or take 15 (2d10 + 4) bludgeoning damage and be stunned until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't stunned. Spellcasting. The oni casts one of the following spells using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks) and it needs only verbal components to cast its spells: At will: darkness, invisibility, mage hand, minor illusion 2/day each: charm person, cone of cold, gaseous form, sleep 1/day each: chain lightning, dimension door, dispel magic, dominate person, stoneskin, steel wind strike, thunder step, whirlwind Change Shape. The oni magically transforms into a Small or Medium humanoid, into a Large Giant, or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. The only equipment that is transformed is its weapon, which shrinks so that it can be wielded in humanoid form. This transformation ends if the oni is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Reactions Fade into Mist (Recharge 5–6). When hit by an attack roll, the attack instead misses and the oni turns into a gaseous form and moves up to 60 feet away to an unoccupied space it can see. While in this form, the oni can enter the space of another creature and has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has advantage on 5trength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through small holes, narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target can't fall and remains hovering in the air even when stunned or otherwise incapacitated. While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can't talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or holding can't be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. It remains in this form until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

