# Ooze, Sinkhole

**description**: The walls of the pit shift, and half a dozen tendrils pluck the falling deer from the air, dissolve it, and drop its skeleton into the darkness below. Sinkhole oozes are translucent creatures that can stretch themselves around or across a well, pit, sinkhole, gully or similar opening and catch whatever falls down the hole. They catch and hold the falling creatures, dissolving and consuming the prey's softer tissues before releasing the skeleton. Terrors of Sinkholes. Sinkhole oozes ambush prey underground, in flatlands or low hills, with limestone bedrock, and in humanoid-made wells and traps. Symbiotic Relationships. A sinkhole ooze has just enough intelligence to work with other creatures. Some intelligent creatures will use a sinkhole ooze as a trap, driving or luring enemies into its clutches. The ooze recognizes this and avoids eating its partners—so long as they provide it with food. Amorphous . The ooze can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Hollow Cylindrical Form (Stretched Body Only). Creatures can occupy the space in the center of the cylinder formed by the sinkhole ooze, and each such space is always within the ooze's reach, regardless of the size of the cylinder. Ooze Nature . The sinkhole ooze doesn't require sleep. Seizing Pseudopods . The sinkhole ooze can have up to six tendril-like Pseudopods at a time. Each Pseudopod can be attacked (AC 10; 10 hp; immunity to acid, poison, and psychic damage). Destroying a Pseudopod deals no damage to the ooze, which can extrude a replacement Pseudopod on its next turn. A Pseudopod can also be broken if a creature takes an action and succeeds on a DC 14 Strength check against it. Slimy Appearance (Stretched Body Only). While the sinkhole ooze remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from the interior of the pit or hole in the ground it is stretched across, though the interior walls appear to be wet. Spider Climb. The sinkhole ooze can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Actions Multiattack . The sinkhole ooze makes two Pseudopod attacks. Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 15 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) acid damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and takes 3 (1d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns, and the ooze can't use the same Pseudopod on another target. Bonus Actions Stretch Body. The sinkhole ooze stretches its body around the inner walls of a pit, sinkhole, or other circular opening in the ground. When stretched in this way, the ooze forms a hollow cylinder that is up to 25 feet tall with an up to 25-foot radius. The ooze can end the stretch as a bonus action, occupying the nearest unoccupied space to the hole in the ground. Reactions Pluck (Stretched Body Only). When at least one creature falls down the center of the cylinder formed by the sinkhole ooze, the ooze can try to grab up to two of the creatures. Each target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 14) in one of the ooze's Pseudopods.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Ooze
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

