# Ooze, Scintillating

**description**: A tentacled horror oozes forward, its long, slimy pseudopods wielding an assortment of weapons. A scintillating ooze can be found anywhere junk collects. Legends say the oozes were created to protect treasures and armories, but they ended up consuming their creators, along with any other adventurers unlucky enough to stumble across them. Apex Predator. Scintillating oozes represents the final step in the evolution of oozes. They possess several traits common in smaller oozes, slimes, and jellies and are smart enough to apply predatory tactics and wield weapons left by victims. Though they understand which end of the weapon to use against their prey, they aren't intelligent enough to activate magic weapons with command words, buttons, or similar. It can't be reasoned with, but it can be tricked, lured, or corralled by effective tactics. Like a lion or tiger, it is an apex predator capable of waiting until the right moment to strike. Sparkling Lures. Scintillating oozes understand that sparkling treasures lure prey, and they use such treasures as traps for greedy adventures and curious animals alike, lying in wait to ambush the distracted prey. It attacks with weapons from its treasure hoard if possible and uses its pseudopods to grasp and hold prey. An injured scintillating ooze doesn't run from potential prey, but it sends any severed pieces of itself to flee. These severed pieces eventually grow into full-sized scintillating oozes, and stories claim some regrown scintillating oozes even recognize prey that escaped them in their previous “lives.” Amorphous. The ooze can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Corrosive Form . A creature that touches a scintillating ooze or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage. Ooze Nature. The scintillating ooze doesn't require sleep. Spider Climb . The scintillating ooze can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Actions Multiattack. The scintillating ooze makes one Pseudopod attack and three Weapon Thrash attacks. Weapon Thrash. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing (the ooze's choice) damage. Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8) acid damage. Reactions Shed Oozling. When the scintillating ooze has more than 10 hp and is subjected to acid, cold, lightning, or slashing damage, the scintillating ooze can lose 10 hp to create an oozling. An oozling has the same statistics as the scintillating ooze, except it is Tiny, has 10 hp, can't make Weapon Thrash attacks, and can't use this reaction or use legendary actions. Legendary Actions The scintillating ooze can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The ooze regains all spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The scintillating ooze moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Grasping Pseudopod. The scintillating ooze launches a pseudopod at one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 30 feet toward the ooze. Lunging Attack (Costs 2 Actions) . The scintillating ooze makes one Weapon Thrash attack at a creature it can see within 10 feet of it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Ooze
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

