# Ooze Knight Champion

**description**: Assimaloozes When strong biomantic magic is enhanced by the spark of a divine ooze and introduced to living tissue, that tissue is quickly assimilated into an ooze-like substance. The new creature retains its strongest memories as an overarching reason for existence but, as with biomantic polyhedroozes, is easily moulded by the strong psyches and emotions that inhabit its environs. Variformed. The form an assimalooze takes depends on both its form before oozificaiton as well as its environment: principally the available hard matter around which it can arrange itself. An assimalooze in a graveyard might animate the bones of the dead, while one on a battlefield might inhabit the armoured plates of a knight, and another in an abandoned building could build a skeleton of rusted pipes and a carapace of broken glass. Habitat. Assimaloozes create their lair wherever they form, and thus have no typical habitat. Their effects on the region depend on the psyches influencing their creation. However, without fail, assimaloozes always acidify nearby water sources: a byproduct of their presence and, when threatened, as a defence mechanism. Ooze Knight The ooze knight has two major influences: the Rose Knight’s yearning to bind and defeat the dragon, Asterax, and that same dragon’s cruelty, greed, and malice. Lair Actions While the ooze knight is in its lair, it can use the following lair actions. The saving throw DC and damage of the lair actions depend on the level of the adventure, as shown in the Variable Lair Action Statistics table. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam 5th 13 5 ( 2d4 ) 10th 15 10 ( 3d6 ) 15th 17 21 ( 6d6 ) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the ooze knight can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; they can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Acid Infusion. The lair’s water becomes a corrosive acid until initiative count 20 of the next round. A creature that enters the acid for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must make a VDC Constitution saving throw , taking Vdam acid damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Chain Lash. Iron chains lash out from the water, wrapping around a creature of the ooze knight’s choice. The creature must succeed on a VDC Strength saving throw or be pulled into the nearest patch of water and restrained by the chain. A creature can use its action to make a VDC Strength check , freeing itself or another restrained creature from the chain on a success. Overwhelming Dragopathy (Ooze Dragon Form Only). The ooze dragon chooses a target it can see and sends a telepathic wave across the lair. The target and each creature within 10 feet of it must succeed on a VDC Charisma saving throw or become afflicted with a random intense emotion for 1 minute or until the ooze dragon uses another lair action. An afflicted creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 1. Greed. The creature sees allies as competition for glory and treasure, and it can only take actions that hinder or harm other creatures attacking the ooze dragon. 2. Pride. The creature believes itself to be the only one capable of defeating the ooze dragon. It can’t take or accept the Help action, can’t be the willing target of any spell cast by another creature, can’t benefit from flanking, and can’t assist restrained or grappled creatures. 3. Anger. The creature is filled with rage, and it can only take actions that allow it to attack the ooze dragon or force the ooze dragon to make a saving throw. 4. Sloth. The creature becomes lethargic and unwilling to fight, and it can only take the Disengage action and can’t take reactions. Regional Effects The region containing the ooze knight’s lair is warped by the infusion of Asterax’s malice, creating one or more of the following effects: Open water sources within 1 mile of the ooze knight’s lair are supernaturally sulphuric and acidic. Extended exposure to their fumes and corrosion is fatal. A humanoid that spends at least 1 hour within 1 mile of the ooze knight’s lair must succeed on a VDC Wisdom saving throw or gain a short-term madness effect. A creature that succeeds on its save can’t be affected by this regional effect again for 24 hours. The land within 6 miles of the lair takes twice as long as normal to traverse; twisted plants obscure safe paths, diverting wanderers into the swamp’s reeking mud. If the ooze knight dies, vegetation remains as it has grown, but other effects fade over 1d10 days.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: ooze
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

