# Opinicus

**description**: The benevolent opinicus is an odd-looking blend of several animals. It has the body and neck of a camel, a baboon's face, the mane and tail of a lion, and an eagle's wings. Its fur ranges from light tan to golden brown, with darker shades on its face and wings. The forepaws of an opinicus have opposable thumbs, allowing the creature to grasp things and use them the same way as humanoids could. It has a long lifespan, being able to live for several centuries. Wise and Witty. The opinicus is known for its knowledge, wisdom, and sense of humor. It has a penchant for playing pranks and telling jokes and enjoys the company of like-minded creatures. It particularly relishes having an audience and bantering with bards. It has been known to accompany or follow adventuring parties just for its amusement. While they may tend to get annoyed by the opinicus's constant witty remarks and playful tricks, adventurers tolerate it because of the aid the opinicus can provide them. Divine Champion. Though it always tries to avoid combat, the opinicus will not hesitate to fight if it is defending innocent and helpless creatures, especially against evil supernatural attackers. It despises fiends, jackalweres, lamias, evil nagas, and undead, showing a rare ferocity when fighting these malevolent foes. The opinicus moves surprisingly quick and attack opponents with its claws. What makes it a dangerous opponent, though, is its array of magical abilities. It can cast potent psionic and divine spells, can turn undead, and even become ethereal. It can also project a radiant beam from its eyes, burning and blinding those unfortunate enough to get caught in it. Desert Dweller. The opinicus can be encountered in vast desert regions and spends most of its time exploring, collecting and preserving literary works of art. If not, it is either poring through its newly acquired items or projecting itself to the astral plane. The opinicus lives in long-forgotten ruins of old temples, shrines, and sand-buried palaces in the desert. It keeps its home immaculately clean as it tends to entertain the occasional friendly visitor, which is often a djinni, iridescent naga, lammasu, shedu, or threskisphinx. Traits Uncanny Senses. The opinicus can’t be surprised while it isn’t incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The opinicus makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage. Etherealness. The opinicus magically enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. Spellcasting. The opinicus casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks): At will: absorb elements, invisibility, light, misty step, sacred flame (2d8), shield, thunderwave (as a 2nd-level spell) 1/day each: astral projection, banishment, dimension door, remove curse, telekinesis Radiant Gaze (Recharge 5–6). The opinicus's eyes burn intensely like the sun, emitting radiant energy in a 30-foot cone. Each fiend, ooze, and undead in that area must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) radiant damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded. Creatures with sunlight sensitivity must also make their saving throws but only against being blinded. Turn Undead (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Each undead creature within 30 feet of the opinicus and can see and hear the opinicus must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the undead creature is frightened for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. Undead creatures of CR 1/2 or less are destroyed. A frightened undead creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from the opinicus as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of it. The frightened undead creature also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

