# Oracle of Storms

**description**: Elemental Appearances Elementals in the Mundane World take the shape of other creatures formed of elements. Air Spark. An air spark is a wisp of cloud that takes the shape of a winged serpent. Earth Spark. An earth spark is a rhinoceros formed from hunks of dirt and stone. Essence of Mist. An essence of mist has the misty silhouette of a cloaked humanoid. A brutal weapon forms in their grasp as they strike, rendering their victims breathless. Essence of Storms. An essence of storms is formed from streaks of colored cloud-stuff woven into the silhouette of a large eagle or falcon. Essence of Tides. An essence of tides looks like a shimmering blue manta ray that glides over land as easily as through water. Force of Blood. A force of blood could be mistaken for a massive humanoid clad entirely in black-and-red toothed armor, but in truth, their “armor” is blackened, gnarled flesh punctuated with veins of boiling red. Force of Earth. A force of earth resembles a nine-foot-tall great ape formed of rough stone. Force of Iron. A force of iron appears as a four-armed centaur made of malleable metal with a head shaped like an empty knight’s helm. Oracle of Storms. An oracle of storms takes the shape of a storm giant made of thunderclouds. Sunlight Nexus. A being of pure radiance, a sunlight nexus is easily mistaken for a winged celestial made of stained glass. Water Spark. A water spark is an octopus formed out of water. Traits Turbulent Escalation. When the oracle starts their turn outdoors while not incapacitated, they can stoke a thunderstorm (no action required). For 1 minute or until the oracle uses Turbulent Escalation again, the weather in a 1-mile radius centered on the oracle changes as follows: If the sky is cloudless, it becomes cloudy. If the sky is cloudy, it begins to rain or snow (oracle’s choice). If it’s raining or snowing, the weather becomes stormy. Actions Multiattack. The oracle uses Tempest Bolt twice. They can replace one use with a Cyclone Staff attack. Cyclone Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 22 (4d10) thunder damage, and the oracle moves the target up to 10 feet in any direction. Tempest Bolt. A bolt of lightning streaks from the oracle to strike one creature they can see within 90 feet of them, or within 300 feet of them if the target is outdoors and the weather is stormy. The target must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 31 (7d8) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the target is outdoors and the weather is stormy, they have disadvantage on the saving throw. Bonus Actions Convocation of Storms ( 2 /Day). The oracle imbues the power of storm in themself or another Elemental they can see within 30 feet of them, granting one of the following effects of that Elemental’s choice: Lightning Within. The Elemental becomes charged with lightning. The next time the Elemental hits a target with an attack within the next minute, the attack deals an extra 33 (6d10) lightning damage. Thunder Burst. A concussive shock wave erupts from the Elemental toward four creatures they can see within 60 feet of them. Each target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 22 (4d10) thunder damage, be pushed up to 10 feet away from the Elemental, and be deafened until the end of the target’s next turn. Utility Spells In addition to any other spells in this stat block, the oracle can cast the following spells, using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): 3/day each: commune + , commune with nature + , legend lore + , scrying +

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Elemental (Air, Water)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

