# Orc Legion Murach

**description**: A murach , or “sergeant,” commands a spear of ten soldiers. Murachs are expected to be dangerous and hardened veterans, and if they show any signs of weaknesses, legion culture expects one of their soldiers to challenge them for command. Murachs do not concern themselves overmuch with strategy. Instead, their job is to get their spear into the fight, and then overcome the enemies in front of them. They’re at the forefront of every charge, and they make sure that each of their soldiers is right behind them. Orc Legionaries The orc legionaries are brutal warriors and hardened fighters. Even after 100 years of conquest, they still make up the core of Izrador’s armies. Each orc legionary is well-equipped for war, with a spear, shield, and heavy vardatch. They train to fight in ranks, though they are also dangerous combatants on their own. Typically, orcs deploy in cohorts of roughly 100 legionaries (or 10 spears ). The cohorts fight in rectangular formations, with half their spears forward and half waiting a few yards behind, ready to be thrown into the fight. Some orc legionaries show more independence and aptitude. These orcs may be given composite shortbows and deployed as skirmishers on a cohort’s flanks. There they harry their foes with arrow fire and protect a cohort from flank attacks. Most legion cohorts have one or two spears made up of these legion vanguards, although some legions are known to eschew skirmishers in favor of more muscle on the fighting line. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Actions Charge! (recharge short/long rest). The murach chooses any number of legion orcs within 30 feet who can hear it. Until the end of each affected legion orc’s next turn, it can use its bonus action to move up to its speed toward a hostile creature. The murach can then move up to its speed and make one melee attack as a bonus action. Phalanx! (recharge short/long rest). The murach chooses any number of legion orcs within 30 feet who can hear it. Each affected orc can spend its reaction to immediately move up to 20 feet toward another friendly legion orc it can see. The murach can then move up to its speed toward another friendly legion orc. For one minute, all friendly legion orc within 5 feet of another affected legion orc increase their AC by 2 as long as they remain within 5 feet of another friendly legion orc. Vardatch. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10+5) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (orc)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

