# Orc Legion Vargon

**description**: Each legion cohort is commanded by a vargon . These are champions who are expected to be the most dangerous fighter amongst a hundred battle-hardened orcs, and also have a solid grasp of legion tactics. A vargon is always in the thick of the fighting to inspire their soldiers, who view the exploits of their champion with a mixture of awe and jealousy. Orc Legionaries The orc legionaries are brutal warriors and hardened fighters. Even after 100 years of conquest, they still make up the core of Izrador’s armies. Each orc legionary is well-equipped for war, with a spear, shield, and heavy vardatch. They train to fight in ranks, though they are also dangerous combatants on their own. Typically, orcs deploy in cohorts of roughly 100 legionaries (or 10 spears ). The cohorts fight in rectangular formations, with half their spears forward and half waiting a few yards behind, ready to be thrown into the fight. Some orc legionaries show more independence and aptitude. These orcs may be given composite shortbows and deployed as skirmishers on a cohort’s flanks. There they harry their foes with arrow fire and protect a cohort from flank attacks. Most legion cohorts have one or two spears made up of these legion vanguards, although some legions are known to eschew skirmishers in favor of more muscle on the fighting line. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Traits Brave. The vargon has advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Legion Tactics. While within 30 feet of the vargon and within 5 feet of at least one other legion orc, legion orcs gain advantage on melee attack rolls. Actions Multiattack. The vargon may attack twice with its vardatch and once with its shield. War Cry (1/day). The vargon chooses any number of legion orcs within 30 feet who can hear it. Each affected legion orc gains advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws until the start of its next turn. The vargon can then make one attack as a bonus action. Vardatch. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d10+6) slashing damage. Shield. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Reactions Parry. The vargon adds 3 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the vargon must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (orc)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

