# Orcus

**description**: Orcus is the Demon Prince of Undeath, also known as the Blood Lord. While he takes pleasure in the sufferings of the living, he far prefers the company and service of Undead. His desire is to see all life quenched and the multiverse transformed into a vast necropolis populated solely by Undead creatures under his command. Orcus rewards those who spread death in his name by granting them a small portion of his power. The least of these become ghouls and zombies (both appear in the Monster Manual ) that serve in his legions, while his favored servants are the cultists and necromancers who murder the living and then manipulate the dead, emulating their dread master. Orcus is a bestial creature of corruption with a diseased, decaying look. He has the lower torso of a goat and a humanlike upper body with a belly swollen with rot. Great bat wings sprout from his shoulders, and his head is like the skull of a goat, the flesh nearly rotted from it. In one hand, he wields the legendary Wand of Orcus , which is described in the Dungeon Master’s Guide . Orcus’s Lair Orcus makes his lair in the fortress city of Naratyr, which is on Thanatos, the layer of the Abyss that he rules. Surrounded by a moat fed by the River Styx, Naratyr is an eerily quiet and cold city, its streets empty for hours at a time. The central castle of bone has interior walls of flesh and carpets made of woven hair. The city contains wandering Undead, many of which are engaged in continuous battles with one another. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Orcus can take one of the following lair actions; he can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Deadly Utterance. Orcus’s voice booms throughout the lair. His utterance causes one creature of his choice to be subjected to power word kill . Orcus needn’t see the creature, but he must be aware that the individual is in the lair. Grasp of the Dead. Orcus causes skeletal arms to rise from an area on the ground in a 20-foot square that he can see. They last until the next initiative count 20. Each creature in that area when the arms appear must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or be restrained until the arms disappear or until Orcus releases them (no action required). Undead Servants. Orcus causes up to six corpses within the lair to rise as skeletons , zombies , or ghouls (all appear in the Monster Manual ). These Undead obey his telepathic commands, which can reach anywhere in the lair. Regional Effects The region containing Orcus’s lair is warped by his magic, creating one or more of the following effects: Charnel Realm. The air is filled with the stench of rotting flesh, and buzzing flies grow thick within the region. Undead Beasts. Dead Beasts periodically animate as Undead mockeries of their former selves. Skeletal and zombie versions of local wildlife are commonly seen in the area. If Orcus dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Cultists of Orcus Orcus grants his rank-and-file cultists the Undying Soul trait, and his cult leaders can gain the Aura of Death trait. Undying Soul (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If this creature is reduced to 0 hit points, it immediately makes a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. If it succeeds, it is instead reduced to 1 hit point. Aura of Death. This creature emanates a deathly aura that extends 30 feet in every direction from its space while it isn’t incapacitated. The aura is blocked by total cover. While in the aura, the creature and any friendly Undead are immune to the frightened condition and have resistance to radiant damage. Enemies have disadvantage on death saving throws while in the aura. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Orcus fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Orcus has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Master of Undeath. Orcus can cast animate dead (at will) and create undead (3/day). He chooses the level at which the spells are cast, and the creatures created by them remain under his control indefinitely. Additionally, he can cast create undead even when it isn’t night. Special Equipment. Orcus wields the Wand of Orcus . Actions Multiattack. Orcus makes three Wand of Orcus , Tail, or Necrotic Bolt attacks. Wand of Orcus. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d8 + 11) bludgeoning damage plus 13 (2d12) necrotic damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) force damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage. Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +15 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 29 (5d8 + 7) necrotic damage. Conjure Undead (1/Day). While holding the Wand of Orcus , Orcus conjures Undead creatures whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 500. These creatures magically rise up from the ground or otherwise form in unoccupied spaces within 300 feet of Orcus and obey his commands until they are destroyed or until he dismisses them as an action. Spellcasting. Orcus casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 23): At will: detect magic 3/day: dispel magic 1/day: time stop Wand Spellcasting. While holding the Wand of Orcus , Orcus casts one of the following spells (spell save DC 18), some of which require charges; the wand has 7 charges to fuel these spells, and it regains 1d4 + 3 charges daily at dawn: At will: animate dead (as an action), blight , speak with dead 1 charge each: circle of death , finger of death 2 charges: power word kill Legendary Actions Orcus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Orcus regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Attack. Orcus makes one Tail or Necrotic Bolt attack. Creeping Death (Costs 2 Actions). Orcus chooses a point on the ground that he can see within 100 feet of him. A cylinder of swirling necrotic energy 60 feet tall and with a 10-foot radius rises from that point and lasts until the end of Orcus’s next turn. Creatures in that area have vulnerability to necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

