# Ormur

**description**: Ormur the Great Serpent Ormur is the Yoten serpent that Hel brought into Grimnir during the Exodus. She has lived in the great sea and her children have given the Serpent Sea its name. She believes it is her right—and the right of her children—to feed on all things that enter the sea. She dislikes the raiders for slaying her children and for not providing sufficient offerings. She is convinced that Grimnir is meant to be her world—after all it was created from her father, Mirgal. The mortals upon it do not deserve it. These thoughts are amplified by Boða's mental manipulation of Ormur. She does not understand that Ragnarök will actually destroy her children and the Serpent Sea itself. Roleplaying Ormur The heroes never really communicate with Ormur but they might indirectly have contact with the creature—perhaps via magical means. Content. She may come across as simple but more accurately she’s been comfortable for centuries, slowly growing. Ponderous. Though she reacts swiftly when threatened, thinking new thoughts takes her time. If spoken to telepathically it might take minutes for her to form a comprehensible answer. She rushes nothing and though she might be slow to communicate, she is both intelligent and wise. Single-Minded. The more she eats the more serpents she can produce—she is always hungry, and her hunger is expanding as she herself grows ever larger. Saga Actions Death Throes. When Ormur reaches zero hit points, all negative conditions upon her are removed and she takes a full turn against The Cursed Raider, using all of her attacks against their foe. Any poison damage delivered to the Cursed Raider in this way is doubled. She also amplifies the poison in each poisoned creature within 150 feet of her. Each takes 13 (2d12) poison damage. Lair Actions When fighting inside her lair, Ormur can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Ormur can take one lair action to cause one of the following effects: Rain of Death. A torrential downpour of toxins briefly covers the lair. Ormur may choose 3 unoccupied squares within its lair and create a Caustic Puddle in each chosen square. Creatures inside the lair must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. If a poisoned creature fails the saving throw, they instead take 13 (3d8) poison damage. Flood. Ormur causes all active Caustic Puddles to grow in size. Each Caustic Puddle within 1 mile of Ormur increases its radius by 5 feet. If this would cause a puddle to expand into a creature’s square, the creature is considered to have stepped into it. Wave of Destruction. Ormur causes a Caustic Puddle to rise and flow, creating a toxic tidal wave. The wave then flows in a direction of Ormur’s choosing, creating a 100-foot-long line as wide as the original puddle. Each creature in the line must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or take 28 (8d6) poison damage. Creatures that fail the save are poisoned until the end of their next turn. Once the tidal wave finishes traveling, the Caustic Puddle moves to the final square. Lifegiver. Ormur causes a poisonous golem to rise from a chosen Caustic Puddle, removing the puddle. The poisonous golem acts immediately after the lair action, has an AC of 10 and 30 hit points, and is allied to Ormur. On its turn, the golem can move 30 feet and attempt a single melee attack (+8 to hit). On a hit, the golem deals 19 (3d12) poison damage and the target is poisoned until the end of the target’s next turn. Golems last until killed and, upon death, drop a Caustic Puddle in the square they occupied. Ormur can’t repeat an effect until they have all been used, and she can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row. Ormur's Lair Actions Ormur will certainly use her Lair Actions during Ragnarök (Chapter 12), but feel free to have her exert her influence earlier, to inspire fear in the heroes.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity (Yoten)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 25792
- Challenge Rating: 25

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

