# Orr, The Grieving Rebirth (1st Form)

**description**: Traits Amorphous. Orr can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Cold Absorption. Whenever Orr is subjected to cold damage, it takes no damage and instead regains a number of hit points equal to the cold damage dealt. Divine Rejuvenation. When Orr drops to 0 hit points, its body collapses into a writhing mass of flesh, whereupon Orr instantly reappears in its second form in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of where its first form was destroyed. Its initiative count doesn't change. Freedom of Movement. Orr ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can't reduce its speed or cause it to be restrained. It can spend 5 feet of movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or being grappled. Immutable Form. Orr is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Innate Spellcasting. Orr's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 3/day each: divine order: reveal, fling, gravitational distortion 1/day each: bury, crush, divine order: transcend* *Orr always succeeds on the saving throw for this spell Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If Orr fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons. Orr's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. Orr makes two tentacle attacks. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) slashing damage and 13 (2d12) cold damage. If a creature is damaged by this attack twice before the start of Orr's next turn, it must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. Scream (3/Day). Orr emits a scream of pure rage and agony. Each time it screams before finishing a long rest, the scream is louder and the effect is different, as detailed below. Each creature within 500 feet of Orr and able to hear the scream must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. Scream of Pain. Each creature that fails its save is affected by crippling pain for 1 minute. For the duration, the creature’s speeds are reduced to 10 feet and it has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws, other than Constitution saving throws. Further, if the target tries to cast a spell, it must first succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, or the casting fails and the spell is wasted. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Scream Of Harvest. Each creature that fails its save becomes vulnerable to necrotic and cold damage for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Scream of Death. Each creature takes 22 (4d10) cold damage and 22 (4d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. Bonus actions Teleport. Orr magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space. Reactions Warp Magic. Orr casts counterspell at 5th level. Legendary Actions Orr can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Orr regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tentacle Attack. Orr makes one tentacle attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). Orr uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). Orr casts a spell from its Innate Spellcasting trait, expending a use as normal. The result of the union between two beings of power with nothing but hatred for each other. A weeping child unable to control its fury.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: aberration (god)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

