# Orr, The Grieving Rebirth (2nd form)

**description**: Traits Amorphous. Orr can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Black Frost Shell. Orr starts with 50 temporary hit points. If a creature hits it with a melee attack while it has these hit points, the creature takes 50 cold damage. Freedom of Movement. Orr ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can't reduce its speed or cause it to be restrained. It can spend 5 feet of movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or being grappled. Gravity Bound. Orr is bound by its curse. It can't position itself further than 20 feet away vertically from the ground. If it is moved higher than 20 feet, it immediately begins falling until it is 20 feet above the ground. Innate Spellcasting. Orr's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 22, +14 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 3/day each: fling 1/day each: bury, divine order: sacrifice, power word: kill Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Orr fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Weapons. Orr's weapon attacks are magical. Magic Resistance. Orr has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Numbing Frost. If Orr damages a creature twice on a turn, the target must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 17 (5d6) cold damage and is slowed, as per the slow spell, for 1 minute. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn't slowed. A slowed target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Actions Multiattack. Orr uses its Frozen Rebirth. It then makes three tentacle attacks. It can replace up to two tentacle attacks with one maddening shard attack each. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage and 10 (3d6) cold damage, and Orr can push the target up to 30 feet away in a straight line. Maddening Shard. Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, range 150 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8) cold damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or gain a short-term madness. Frozen Rebirth. Orr summons 1d4 hunters in empty spaces it can see within 120 feet of it. The hunters are under Orr's control, are immune to cold damage, and gain a +4 bonus to attack and damage rolls. Orr can have no more than five hunters under its control at one time. Bonus actions Vanish. Orr explodes in a blast of rime and wind. Each creature within 60 feet of it must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) cold damage on a failure, or half as much damage on a success. Creatures touching metal objects (for example, carrying metal weapons or wearing metal armor) automatically fail this saving throw. Orr then reappears in an unoccupied space of its choice that it can see within 120 feet of it. Reactions Devour Magic. When a creature Orr can see within 60 feet of it casts a spell, Orr casts counterspell at 5th level. If it successfully counters the magic, it regains hit points equal to three times the spell's level (0 for cantrips). Legendary Actions Orr can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Orr regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tentacle Attack. Orr makes one tentacle attack. Teleport (Costs 1 Actions). Orr uses its Vanish. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Orr casts a spell from its Innate Spellcasting trait, expending a use as normal.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: aberration (god)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

