# Oruk Shock Trooper

**description**: Many of the legions single out the strongest and deadliest fighters and gather them into elite units. These are the oruk shock troopers , the biggest and strongest orcs the legions have to offer. They eschew the typical ranked fighting tactics of the legion, preferring to break the lines of their foes with great sweeps from massive vardatches that require two hands to wield. A promising orc warlord may lead a cohort of oruk shock troopers, while the most feared and successful warlords may command entire hosts of the feared warriors. They are almost always sent where the fighting is thickest, to smash the cream of the enemy army and drive their foes to despair and ruin. Orc Legionaries The orc legionaries are brutal warriors and hardened fighters. Even after 100 years of conquest, they still make up the core of Izrador’s armies. Each orc legionary is well-equipped for war, with a spear, shield, and heavy vardatch. They train to fight in ranks, though they are also dangerous combatants on their own. Typically, orcs deploy in cohorts of roughly 100 legionaries (or 10 spears ). The cohorts fight in rectangular formations, with half their spears forward and half waiting a few yards behind, ready to be thrown into the fight. Some orc legionaries show more independence and aptitude. These orcs may be given composite shortbows and deployed as skirmishers on a cohort’s flanks. There they harry their foes with arrow fire and protect a cohort from flank attacks. Most legion cohorts have one or two spears made up of these legion vanguards, although some legions are known to eschew skirmishers in favor of more muscle on the fighting line. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Actions Multiattack. The oruk may attack twice with its heavy vardatch. Heavy Vardatch. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (1d12+6) slashing damage. Power Slam. Up to three medium or smaller creatures within 5 ft. of the oruk and 5 ft., of each other must make a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and suffer 6 (1d4+4) bludgeoning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: humanoid (orc)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

