# Othaeron, the Sword of Shadow

**description**: Othaeron Mortenbreth, Lord General of Erenland and Master of the Middle Watch was one of the kingdom’s most celebrated warriors. Born of a minor noble family, Othaeron sought glory for himself by pledging his sword to the defenses along the Fortress Wall fighting against the minions of the Shadow. Othaeron quickly proved to be a natural leader, a brilliant strategist, and an expert tactician. He was also one of the finest swordsmen in the human realm. His rise through both military and social ranks was as earned as it was expected, and when in 882 TA he was made sussar and lord general over all the armies of Erenland, no one was surprised. Othaeron’s staunch loyalty and impeccable honor were the stuff of legend, and he was considered a hallmark of nobility and an example of what all Erenlanders (and truly, all Dorns and Sarcosans as well) should aspire to become. The only thing greater than Othaeron’s reputation was his pride, a fault that would eventually fell the kingdom. Othaeron had long desired the prestige and high rank that a union with the royal family would bring him. He believed that marriage, specifically to the Kalif’s daughter Aytan or son Kormir, would secure his ascendency. Moreover, when Othaeron read missives from the capital full of Kalif Kari’s praise and was welcomed warmly into the court after his long campaigns, he assumed that this marriage was guaranteed. However, in the summer 889 TA, Erenland celebrated the news that one, then the other of the Kalif’s children would wed, and neither were betrothed to Othaeron. In fact, the Kalif and his children had long since decided together that marriages of alliance to House Redgard in the north and House Baden on the Sea of Pelluria would strengthen the fracturing kingdom. Othaeron’s assumptions were, and had ever been, a fantasy known only to himself. The Lord General, however, would not accept the reality of the situation, and seethed with rage at what he claimed was a betrayal. The honors and rewards of land and titles that the Kalif had heaped upon him for his service suddenly seemed a bitter mockery, and he stormed out of the capital with only his personal cadre of bodyguards. Othaeron ostensibly went north to support the Dornish royals still loyal to Erenland in their civil wars. There he spent more than a year fighting renegades and wallowing in prideful bitterness. At night, his dreams became haunted by voices that whispered things he could not quite recall in the light of day. Time passed, and as the nightmares worsened, so did his bitterness. Then one day, while interrogating a group of prisoners taken from a renegade village, Othaeron came across an old woman who spoke to him in the same strange language he heard in his tortured sleep. He ordered her gagged and imprisoned with the others, but when the nightmares abruptly stopped, Othaeron had the old crone brought before him. Over several months, they spoke many times. The woman, it turned out, was some sort of seer and had visions of Othaeron ascending to greatness. In fact, she saw him rising to lord over all the lands of Eredane, as something greater than a mere kalif. As her words soothed Othaeron’s pride, they also fed the poison that already existed in his soul. The dreams resumed, but now they were filled with visions of the greatness, power, and respect Othaeron felt he deserved. The general no longer fretted over paltry things like honor and loyalty. These were worries for lesser beings, and he had a greater glory to win. The old woman was in fact a greater legate of the Order of Shadow, passing herself off in disguise. She sought to corrupt General Othaeron to the fallen god’s will and in doing so found the leader who would assure victory to the Shadow’s conquering armies. One night, six months after the old woman began telling Othaeron her tales, the general stole from his quarters, mounted his horse, and rode north alone. For days he traveled, not truly sure why, but certain his promised greatness was at stake. Then one day, a terrible storm swept down from the northern horizon, engulfing the general, and he knew no more. When he came to, Othaeron was no longer on the plains, and he was no longer entirely human. Othaeron’s form had become frightening indeed. Now he was larger than even the burliest Dorn, standing 9 feet tall. His body was covered in the blackest plate armor, but armor that was not worn and was instead an unnatural part of his living skin. His mind, too, had been transformed. His smoldering pride had been turned into a burning firebrand of hatred and spite. His will was no longer entirely his own and was driven by sinister desires for domination and power. He was no longer Othaeron, Lord General of Erenland, but had been transformed into Othaeron the Night King, master of the armies of the Shadow. His sole desire was to serve Izrador and in so doing, to subjugate the lands of all Eredane. When the Shadow’s armies swept out of the north in the spring of 897 TA, Othaeron rode at their head. His strategic expertise and intimate knowledge of human tactics allowed his army to cut through the arrayed defenders like so much wheat and march south virtually unchecked. In these days of the Last Age, Othaeron is the high commander of all the Shadow’s military forces, and the campaign to subjugate the continent is his domain. He is the crowned king in Erenland, and though he is often afield with his forces, he maintains court in Alvedara and is often at Theros Obsidia in Highwall consulting with legate seers. It was Othaeron’s strategy to subjugate the human lands first, dividing and thereby weakening the historical allies. With all Erenland under his control, he is now free to focus on defeating the fey, and the campaign proceeds apace. He knows that the collective force of the dwarves is broken and that it is only a matter of time before the last holdfast falls. He also knows the elves have begun to despair and see their doom in the smoke that rises from their burning forest. The Night King Othaeron is awesome to behold in battle: a roiling storm of unbeatable fury. He rides a massive demonic mount whose hooves leave smoldering prints and whose nostrils spew flames. His unnatural armor cannot be defeated by mortal blades, and he wields a huge enchanted sword made for him by traitorous dwarves. His strength and endurance are legendary, and his physical prowess alone is more than a match for an army of war mages and hardened soldiers. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Othaeron fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Shadow’s Sword. Whenever an enemy creature within 30 feet starts their turn, Othaeron gains a reaction if he does not have a reaction. When a creature misses Othaeron with a melee attack, he can use his reaction to make a melee weapon attack against the creature. King of Erenland. Othaeron may spend his bonus action to direct his allies in battle. When he does so, he selects up to four creatures within 60 feet who can see and hear him. Each creature can immediately use its reaction to perform an Attack or Dodge action, or immediately move up to 20 feet. Actions Multiattack. Othaeron makes three attacks, two with the Opener of Ways and one with his gauntlet. Opener of Ways. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d12+6) magical slashing damage. Gauntlet. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8+6) bludgeoning damage and the target must make a DC 22 Strength saving throw or be thrown 10 feet in any direction and knocked prone. Deathblow (Recharge 5-6). Othaeron makes one attack with the Opener of Ways. If he hits, the creature must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) magical slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the creature fails the saving throw, it must repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success, or suffering an additional 21 (6d6) slashing damage on a failure. Legendary Actions Othaeron can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options listed here. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Othaeron regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Gauntlet Attack. Othaeron makes a melee attack with his gauntlet. Detect. Othaeron makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Charge! (Costs 2 actions). Othaeron moves up to his speed in a straight line. If he moves at least 30 feet, each creature within 5 feet of where he ends his movement must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone and stunned until the end of their next turn. Lair Actions Othaeron’s lair is the castle of the kalif in Alvedara. The castle still stands as a breathtakingly beautiful monument to the glory of the kalifs, but behind its massive walls of white stone are thousands of soldiers and hundreds of legates, all laboring in Othaeron’s service. To attack the castle is to attack the Night King’s army as well as Othaeron himself. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Othaeron takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Othaeron can’t take the same lair action twice in a row. With a bellowed order, some of Othaeron’s soldiers arrive to aid him. Either 2d6 orc legionaries, 2d4 orc vanguards, two orc murachs, or two oruk shock troopers appear at least 100 feet away from Othaeron. This legendary action can only be used if there is a conceivable location for the orcs to arrive from. One creature within 120 feet feels a measure of Othaeron’s bitter wrath at his perceived betrayal. The creature must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or immediately spend its reaction to move up to 10 feet and make a melee or ranged attack with one weapon of the GM’s choosing that it has in hand, targeting its closest ally. One creature within 60 feet that Othaeron can see meets the Knight King’s gaze and quails in terror. The creature must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until initiative count 20 of the next round.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity (night king)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 25

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

