# Oventurer

**description**: If you can look past the unsightly smoke, overpowering burnt smell, constant metallic creaking, ashes everywhere, conspicuous light, and suffocating heat, it makes for a great companion! — Heliana, Eternal Optimist Type: Construct Creature Component: Any fire elemental Bonus Tamer Improvement: Easy-Bake and +2 Hit Dice Devoid of taste buds and unable to eat, oventurers are peculiar constructs with a keen interest in culinary arts. They enjoy a rising popularity as hired help in taverns and restaurants, or as companions in adventuring parties tired of subsisting on the same dry old rations. Be careful when offering feedback on their meals, however—oventurers are far from defenceless, and might turn their scorching fire and combat expertise against overly harsh critics. No one likes a snob, least of all an oventurer! If any of the oventurer’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the oventurer’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the oventurer’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer Easy-Bake Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (tamer) The oventurer can be used as a set of cook’s utensils, and its tamer has advantage on any ability checks using it in this way. In addition, over the course of a short or long rest, the oventurer can cook a delicious snack for up to four creatures, which takes 1 minute to consume. A creature that eats a snack gains temporary hit points equal to the tamer’s proficiency bonus. If the snack isn’t consumed immediately after the rest, it cools down and doesn’t grant any benefits. Smokescreen I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (action) While the oventurer’s fire is lit, it can cast the fog cloud spell, centred on itself and requiring no components. When the spell is cast in this way, it produces dark smoke instead of fog. Once the oventurer casts this spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Superheat I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) While the oventurer’s fire is lit, its attacks deal an extra 2 (1d4) fire damage on a hit. Coal Toss Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) The oventurer gains a ranged weapon attack: Coal Toss. The damage die of the Coal Toss attack increases with the die size specified in the oventurer’s Growth improvement. Coal Toss . Ranged Weapon Attack: Str modifier + PB to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 1d4 + Str modifier bludgeoning damage. Growth Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The oventurer’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its attacks increases to a d6. Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the oventurer makes two attacks. Smokescreen II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Smokescreen I Type: Active (action) When a creature enters the area of a fog cloud created by the oventurer for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, the oventurer regains the ability to cast the spell when its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Superheat II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Superheat I Type: Passive (companion), Active (bonus action) The extra fire damage dealt by the oventurer’s attacks while its fire is lit increases to 3 (1d6). In addition, while the oventurer’s fire is lit, it can use a bonus action to cast the heat metal spell, with a range of touch and requiring no components. Once the oventurer casts this spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Convection Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Active (action) While the oventurer’s fire is lit, it can blow a gale of heated air from within itself, casting the gust of wind spell, which requires no components. A creature that makes a saving throw against this spell also takes 10 (3d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Once the oventurer casts this spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Hot Plate Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The oventurer gains a +2 bonus to AC as long as it’s not wearing armour. In addition, while the oventurer’s fire is lit, a creature that hits it with a melee attack takes 3 (1d6) fire damage. Easy-Banquet Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Easy-Bake Type: Passive (companion) When the oventurer cooks a snack over the course of a long rest, roll a d4. On a 4, the oventurer instead cooks an entire meal for up to four creatures, which takes 1 hour to consume and grants the benefits of the heroes’ feast spell. A creature can choose to consume only a small portion, which nonetheless depletes its portion of the meal, takes 1 minute, and grants the benefits of a snack from the Easy-Bake improvement.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: construct
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 26720
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

