# Overmind

**description**: “Careful, Xorannox,” the queen’s consort cautioned. “You tread heavily.” “Tread heavily? My dear consort,” the Tyract’s grin twisted, “I never touch the ground.” Formally known by their endonym, vaurath (plural vaurathi), overminds plot and scheme against their chief rivals, the synlirii and the olothec, for control of the World Below. Psionic Eyes. An overmind is an enormous floating brain with a large central eye surrounded by many smaller embedded eyes. Even more alien, several psionic eyes float within inches of their head, each connected to a small brain that can manifest a unique psionic effect. Intelligent Loremasters. Like their rivals, overminds are loremasters of supreme intellect. They aren’t usually wizards, but they all view the collection of knowledge and arcane sciences as the best tool for ultimate conquest. Overminds are cruel and capricious but enjoy tests of intellectual might. Their one vanity is their unshakable belief in their own intellectual superiority over all others. Overmind Lairs. Thanks to their innate flight, overminds prefer to build (or rather, have their thralls build) towers with no doors or entrances anywhere near the bottom. Rivalries and Negotiations. Unlike their rivals, overminds have an intense hatred of their own kind and never work together. However, overminds often enjoy diplomacy with other species, seeking to form alliances and build secret networks of agents throughout the World Below. Smelly Eggs. Overmind procreation involves one aberration laying a single egg in a slime pool and leaving it behind. When another overmind later detects the distinct smell of the egg, they spray their inseminating fluid into the pool. These actions are compelled by biological necessity, a compulsion even the overminds can’t ignore. Unwitting explorers sometimes accidentally abscond with an egg. If unfertilized, its bearer is likely to attract the attention of other overminds and synlirii that use the eggs in genetic experiments to create psionic creatures. If fertilized, the explorer could find themselves as a newly hatched overmind’s first victim. Traits Detached Eyes. Six eyes float around the overmind and create their Eye Psionics effects. Each eye is an object that has AC 24, 1 hit point, and a psionic shield that makes it immune to damage. After an eye creates a psionic effect, it loses its psionic shield until the start of the overmind’s next turn. If an eye is destroyed, a new eye pops out of the overmind’s face to replace it at the end of their next turn. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) piercing damage. Eye Psionics. The overmind creates three of the following psionic eye effects. Unless otherwise stated, each eye targets a creature who the overmind can see within 120 feet of them. They can’t use the same effect twice in a turn. Charm Beam. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the overmind for 1 hour, or until the overmind harms the creature or one of their allies. Compulsion Beam . The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or use their reaction, if available, to move up to their speed toward the closest ally they can see and make a weapon attack against them. Creatures who can’t be charmed are unaffected. Toxic Vapors. The overmind chooses a point they can see within 120 feet of them. Each creature within 10 feet of the point must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Telekinetic Beam. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be moved up to 30 feet in any direction and take 7 (2d6) force damage at the end of the move. Alternatively, the overmind can target an object they can see within 120 feet of them that weighs 300 pounds or less and isn’t being worn or carried, moving it up to 30 feet in any direction. The overmind can also exert fine control on objects with this effect, such as manipulating a simple tool or opening a door or a container. Lightning Bolt. The overmind shoots a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long line of lightning. Each creature in the line must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Fire Beam. The targeted creature must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 36 (8d8) fire damage and catches fire, taking 9 (2d8) fire damage at the start of each of their turns for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Any creature can use their action to douse the fire, ending the effect early. Bonus Actions The Great Eye (Recharge 6 ). The overmind’s central eye turns solid black and projects a 150-foot cone of energy. If the overmind or any creature in that area is affected by a spell, the spell’s effects immediately end for that creature. Reactions Away with You! When a creature within 5 feet of the overmind hits them with a melee attack, the overmind can use Telekinetic Beam on the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

