# Owl Archon

**description**: The altruistic owl archon appears as a giant, 9-foot tall owl with silvery snow-white plume and bright golden eyes that exhibit wisdom and kindness. It directly answers to the deities of Mount Celestia, as well as to the high-ranked angels and archons. It is feared for its ability to petrify foes with its gaze. Divine Emissaries. An owl archon serves as a scout, courier, and envoy. While the owl archon is often busy with its tasks, it will not hesitate to help and protect those in need. Of all the archons, the owl archon is the most commonly encountered one outside the plane of Mount Celestia. Archons The mighty archons are exalted celestial champions who maintain peace, uphold justice, and serve the angels and deities of Arcadia, Bytopia, and the Seven Heavens of Mount Celestia. Benevolent Guardians. Whereas angels act more as agents, commanders, and generals, archons fill the role of soldiers, scouts, and support specialists. They protect the innocent and defenseless and aid the wounded and sick. They despise and stand against malevolent supernatural creatures such as demons, devils, yugoloths, and evil undead. They capture and bring to justice powerful creatures who have performed depraved and despicable acts. Unfortunately, their unwavering sense of righteousness often leaves them vulnerable to manipulation and conflict. Blessed Champions. Archons never willingly use violence unless it is necessary. However, if combat is unavoidable, archons can be a terrifying thing to behold as they become justice and vengeance personified. They radiate an aura of menace that can sap the will of their foes. Archons are expert battle tacticians, able to teleport at will and cast powerful divine spells that can aid allies and banish foes. In addition to their impressive powers, they are also fearless, tireless, resistant to most attacks, and can’t be charmed. Divine Agents. While they rarely leave Mount Celestia, archons can be encountered anywhere, even in the Lower Planes. They frequently travel to the Material Plane on a variety of missions, acting as couriers, messengers, spies, or marshals. Archons have been known to assist adventurers, especially if they are favored by their deities. Types of Archons. There are eight major types of archons, each with different characteristics and abilities. The hound archon, justice archon, and lantern archons are the most numerous ones, and make up the bulk of the archon army, serving as foot soldiers, guards, and scouts. The owl archon, trumpet archon, and warden archon are specialists, while the sword archon and the throne archon act as military officers. Immortal Nature. An archon doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Aura of Menace. The archon emanates an aura of menace in a 30-foot radius. The first time any enemy creature enters the aura or starts its turn there during a battle, the creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the archon for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. Dive Attack. If the archon is flying and dives at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a melee weapon attack, the attack deals an extra 9 (2d8) damage to the target. Magic Resistance. The archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The archon makes two attacks: one with its Beak and one with its Talons. Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: aid (3rd level), animal friendship, calm emotions, continual flame, cure wounds, detect evil and good, faerie fire 3/day each: dispel magic, freedom of movement, greater restoration 1/day each: dispel evil and good, holy weapon Teleport. The archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Petrifying Eye Rays (6/Day). Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 30 ft., one target. Hit: The target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is petrified for 24 hours, until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

