# Owlbear Companion (PB 3)

**description**: Owlbears possess powerful feathered frames, terrible claws, and a violent distrust of other creatures. The world has come to hate the owlbear, and the owlbear despises the world—a fact they violently express to any creature who crosses their path. Owlbears gain the upper hand by pinning their prey between their powerful appendages and massive form, then they mercilessly rip apart trapped victims with their honed natural weapons. This behemoth of fur and feathers aggressively patrols their territory. They tend to lead a solitary existence, but during mating season, they den as pairs with their bitter broods. Relentless Stalker . When the sun hangs low at sunset, the owlbear commits to kill. They wander tirelessly for countless miles in search of prey, regardless of the threat that prey might pose to them. They seek to hunt and kill not merely because of hunger or desire to defend their territory, but because of an overwhelming drive to display physical dominance. After a victory, the owlbear drags their victim back to their territory, feeding on flesh and discarding bones in sloven and draggletailed fashion. Ravening Beast of Prey. Beyond their wanton killing, these monstrosities quickly upset the local food chain when they settle in an area. As they crowd out other apex predators, this soon leads to an overabundance of vermin. And even when they’re not on the hunt, owlbears knock down mature trees with their long claws, collecting the wood into massive piles to harvest termite mounds. Fierce Companions. Despite the owlbear’s vicious tendencies, they’re naturally wise and intelligent creatures. Owlbears have shown surprising empathy for the grieving and forsaken outcasts who journey into wild places. Taming an owlbear takes a fearless heart and a commitment rivaling the creature’s need to kill. Traits Keen Sight and Smell. The owlbear has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight or smell. Actions Signature Attack (Claw). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB slashing damage. 1 st Level: Violent Attack ( 2 Ferocity). The owlbear makes a signature attack. On a hit, the attack deals an extra PB damage, and the owlbear can move the target 5 feet in any direction. 3 rd Level: Owlie Oop ( 5 Ferocity). The owlbear leaps up to half their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. When they land, each creature within 5 feet of them must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. 5 th Level: Bear Hug ( 8 Ferocity). The owlbear attempts to grab and crush a creature they can see within 5 feet of them. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes PBd10 bludgeoning damage and is grappled (escape DC 10 plus PB). On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and is not grappled. Until this grapple ends, the target is also restrained. The grapple ends if the owlbear uses Bear Hug on another target or makes a signature attack against another target. Bonus Actions Give a Hoot (Recharges after a Long Rest). The owlbear lets loose a unique battle hoot. If the owlbear’s caregiver can hear the owlbear, the caregiver gains 5 × PB temporary hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

