# Pactlich

**description**: The pactlich was a warlock that negotiated for or was gifted the knowledge of the secret rite to lichdom by its evil patron. The stats presented below is that of a warlock of the fiend. Liches This section presents two variety of liches - the banelich and the pactlich. Both liches have the same lair actions and regional effects as the lich (MM). Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the lich fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rejuvenation. If it has a phylactery, a destroyed lich gains a new body in 1d10 days, regaining all its hit points and becoming active again. The new body appears within 5 feet of the phylactery. Turn Resistance. The lich has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns Undead. Dark One's Own Luck (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). When the lich makes an ability check or saving throw, it can add a d10 to the roll. It can do this after the roll is made but before any of the roll's effects occur. Actions Paralyzing Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (3d6) cold damage. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Hellfire . Green flame explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within 120 feet of the lich. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) fire damage and 11 (2d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The lich casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation 1/day each: banishment, circle of death, finger of death, plane shift, psychic scream, maddening darkness Reactions Fiendish Rebuke (3/Day). In response to being damaged by a visible creature within 60 feet of it, the lich forces that creature to make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The lich can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The lich regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Hellfire. The lich uses Hellfire. Paralyzing Touch (Costs 2 Actions). The lich uses its Paralyzing Touch. Frightening Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). The lich fixes its gaze on one creature it can see within 10 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the lich's gaze for the next 24 hours. Dark Hunger (Costs 3 Actions). Each living creature within 20 feet of the lich must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 10 (3d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one and the lich regains hit points equal to the total damage inflicted.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Any Evil Alignment
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

