# Paeliryon

**description**: A paeliryon is a greater devil that does its work unseen. This devil believes that information is the key to advancing in power and as such, is responsible for the spy and assassin networks that rivals even Lolth’s. The paeliryon is a disgusting sight to behold, with a massive bloated obese body covered in warts. Its massive face is framed by a devious, red-lipped smile that prominently shows its rows of sharp teeth. On its back sprouts two bat-like wings with ends flayed like old leather and its hands are armed with poisoned claws painted in blood red. Out of the dark. Paeliryons rarely come out in the open, preferring to leave its agents to do the dirty work. When a paeliryon does come out, it means the plan has gone wrong, or an opponent has piqued its interest. Few rarely see this happen, and even fewer survive, for paeliryons are incredibly powerful spellcasters that rival even some of the demon lords of the Nine Hells. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the devil's darkvision. Keen Smell. The paeliryon has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Intoxicating Scent. Any creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the paeliryon and can smell the paeliryon must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. Until this poison ends, the target is charmed. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the paeliryon's Intoxicating Scent for 24 hours. Magic Resistance. The paeliryon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The paeliryon uses Belittle. It then makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks or two Infernal Bolt attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage, and if the target is a creature, it must make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw or be cursed with magical deformities. While deformed, the creature has its speed halved and has disadvantage on ability checks, saving throws, and attacks based on Strength or Dexterity. The cursed creature can repeat the saving throw whenever it finishes a long rest, ending the effect on itself on a success. Casting remove curse , greater restoration , or a similar spell on the target also ends the effect. Infernal Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) fire damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the paeliryon's next turn. Belittle. The paeliryon hurls magical insults and epithets that strike at the heart of its enemies' insecurities. Each creature of the paeliryon's choice that is within 60 feet of the paeliryon and can hear it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become enraged for 1 minute. While enraged, the creature must use its action to move up to its speed towards the paeliryon and, if it is within range, make a melee weapon attack against it. Otherwise, it must use its Dash action to move towards a space within 5 feet of the paeliryon. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the paeliryon's Belittle for the next 24 hours. Teleport. The paeliryon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The paeliryon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: charm person, detect evil and good, detect magic, suggestion 3/day each: dispel magic, fireball, major image, unholy weapon*, vampiric touch (5d6), wall of fire 1/day: unholy aura * (*see Appendix C. New Spells) Bonus Actions Divine Word (1/Day). The paeliryon casts divine word , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

