# Painted Phantasm

**description**: A figure steps from the painting, its body pigmented and highlighted in ways that contrast with the ambient lighting. The creation of painted phantasms is forbidden among reputable schools of art, as the technique requires blending portraiture with dark magic. Art Imitates Life. Painted phantasms often stalk their creators (or the subject of the portrait they depict) and mimic the person's habits or behaviors. Rejected or obsessive painted phantasms might grow jealous of the person they depict, eventually imprisoning and supplanting it. Phantasms supported and encouraged by their creators often become protégés, continuing the artists' legacies. Mysterious Patron. Painted phantasms often protect art galleries and private collections, and they hunt down any thief or critic who dares to steal or insult the works under their protection. They never destroy painted artwork and will stop anyone attempting to do so. Construct Nature. The painted phantasm doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Immutable Form. The painted phantasm is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The painted phantasm has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The painted phantasm makes two Paint Slash attacks or one Capture Image attack and one Paint Slash attack. Capture Image. Melee Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d10) force damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be captured as an image on a flat surface of the phantasm's choice within 60 feet of it. While an image, the target appears on the surface as a painting, drawing, or similar caricature of itself, and it is incapacitated and restrained. The target can see and hear outside of the surface, but it can't target those outside the surface with spells or cast spells or use features that allow it to leave the surface. If the surface where the target is captured takes damage, the target takes half the damage. If the surface is reduced to 0 hp, the target is freed. A successful dispel magic (DC 15) cast on the surface also frees the captured creature. If the painted phantasm takes 20 damage or more on a single turn, the phantasm must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw at the end of that turn or lose its focus, releasing all captured creatures. Paint Slash. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing plus 16 (3d10) poison damage. Painting Sensor. While touching one artwork, the painted phantasm can see and hear through another artwork it has previously touched as if it was in that artwork's space, provided the artwork is within 1 mile of it. “Artwork” can mean any painting, drawing, or other design on a flat surface, including a pattern painted on a wall or in a book. Bonus Actions Painting Portal. The painted phantasm uses 10 feet of its movement to step magically into one artwork within its reach and emerge from a second artwork within 100 feet of the first artwork, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second artwork. If both artworks are Large or larger, the phantasm can bring up to three willing creatures with it as part of this movement.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

