# Paladin of San Marco

**description**: Savonarola will be accompanied by at least one proud paladin who is associated with San Marco monastery, and maybe more than one, depending on how difficult you want to make it for the group. Each of the paladins commands a small unit of fighters. Although the paladins started out as God-fearing and noble men, they too have been corrupted by Savonarola’s treaty with Satan. Without knowing it, God has retracted His gifts, and their powers now come from the devil. On the surface, they seem to be the same, but they are warped just a little. For example, when they heal someone, that person will be left with some mark of Satan and might at any time be visited by one of his emissaries. Here are some characters to choose from: Teodoro Bardi: A very bulky young man who fights with an axe, a very unlikely weapon for a nobleman. His blows are deadly. He is the only one suspecting that their affiliation has changed, but does not care. He is much smarter than he looks. Gian Luca Pitti: A good looking, tall man of about 40 with thinning hair and an aristocratic nose. Gian Luca is quite vain, but not overly intelligent. He uses a sword and tends to overestimate his abilities. He hates the Medici. Fausto Soderini: A pretty man around 30 with dark hair, rather slender for a paladin, fights elegantly with a long sword. Fausto will not fight to the death, but will rather yield than be killed if overpowered. Traits Great Weapon Fighting. When the paladin rolls a 1 or 2 on a damag e die for an at tack with his melee weapons, he can reroll the die once and must use the new roll. Hellish Smite. When the paladin hits a creature with a melee attack, he can expand a spell slot to deal necrotic damage to the target, in addition to the weapon’s damage. The extra damage is 9 (2d8) for a 1st-level spell slot or 13 (3d8) for a 2nd-level spell slot. Hellish Health. The paladin is immune to disease. Aura of Protection. The paladin and all frie ndly creatures in a 10-foot radius gain a bonus of +2 on their saving throws. Relentless Avenger. When the paladin hits a creature with an opportunity attack, he can move up to half his speed immediately after the attack and as a par t of the same reaction. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. Spellcasting. The paladin is a 7t h-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). The paladin knows the following paladin spells: 1st level (4 slots): bane, compelled duel, hunter’s mark, shield of faith, thunderous smite 2nd level (3 slots): branding smite, hold person, locate object, misty step Locate object can only be used on the rose after the paladin has actually seen it. Actions Multiattack. The Paladin makes two weapon attacks. Abjure enemies. The paladin can select one creature within 60 feet he can see. That creature must make a Wisdom saving throw, unless it is immune to being frightened. On a failed save the creature is frightened for 1 minute or until it takes damage, its speed is reduced to 0, and it can’t benefit from any bonus to its speed. On a successful save the creature’s speed is halved for 1 minute or until the creature takes any damage. Vow of Enmity. As a bonus action, the paladin can utter a vow of enmity against a creature he can see within 10 feet of the paladin. He gains advantage on attack rolls against the creature for 1 minute or until it drops to 0 hit points or falls unconscious. Hellish Sense. As an action the paladin can sense good in a 60-feet radius around them three times until a long rest is finished. The divine rose specifically will draw their attention. Lay on hands. The paladin can, as an action, heal up to a maximum total of 35 hit points with a touch. It replenishes after a long rest. Expending 5 of these hit points can cure one disease or one poisoning. The paladin leaves some sort of Hellish mark on the person who was healed. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d12 + 3) slashing damage. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (Paladin)
- Expansion: 30058
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

