# Pashir

**description**: Pashir Hajin is a half-celestial, half-elemental merchant and the Chief Purveyor of Royal Artifacts for the Everflame Empress who rules the Everflame Empire in the Elemental Plane of Fire. His mandate is to buy luxurious, expensive-looking magic items for the empress. He funds these purchases by trading or selling off items from his empress' vast collection that she has come to dislike for one reason or the other. Always searching for new treasures for the Everflame Empress, Pashir never settles in one place for long. He doesn't have a physical shop and instead employs a unique combination of cunning, charm, and divination magic to locate creatures with interesting magic items. Background The result of a fiery but short-lived love affair between an efreeti and a celestial, Pashir would've likely been better off had he been born in the sanctum of his father's home in Celestia. Instead, Pashir grew up on the Elemental Plane of Fire, confined within the walls of the Golden Palace under the tyrannic rule of the Everflame Empress. Pashir's mother was sentenced to death for her intermingling with a celestial, but Pashir was spared as he might prove a useful slave. Born into servitude, Pashir's early life was marked by misery even greater than that experienced by non-efreeti slaves throughout the Everflame Empire. Being born with a target on your back and being tiny and puny by efreeti standards was a lethal combination. Luckily for Pashir, his innate divine magic often lets him stay a step ahead of trouble. His ability to see through illusions and other deceptions eventually caught the attention of the empress' vizier. Seeing the potential in such skills, the vizier took in the young half-breed and helped him hone his abilities further. Serving as the vizier's extended hand – and bound to do so by a permanent Geas spell – Pashir's travels have since taken him far and wide. At first, he ran simple errands, but he quickly took on greater responsibility and was given greater freedom. For the past decades, Pashir has been seeking out and acquiring magic treasures worthy of the Everflame Empress – and turning a profit for the treasury by selling off the lesser goods that the empress would like to be rid of. Roleplaying Pashir When Pashir approaches customers, he always tries to be polite and friendly, offering to buy drinks, laughing at their jokes, and expressing interest in whatever they have to say. While he truly enjoys good company, what he ultimately cares most about is making a good trade. Despite being well over a century old, Pashir appears as a fit, middle-aged man with brown hair and red eyes. Pashir wears an abundance of glittering jewelry and golden rings and is always dressed in expensive silk under his gilded armor. His taste in fashion is a testament to his efreeti heritage and upbringing. While he does display the cunning and guile of an efreeti, Pashir is less cruel than his brethren – and despises their treatment of "lesser” races, which he himself has been a victim of. Other than enslavement, few things can truly anger Pashir, and, when given a choice, he'd rather flee than engage in violence, even when he's confident he would win a confrontation. Even though a permanent Geas spell compels Pashir to constantly acquire and sell magic items on behalf of his empress, he's relatively free to pursue this goal however he wants. Pleased with his current lot in life, he rarely thinks about how things could be different.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial/Elemental
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 27827
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Wanderer's Guide to Enchanted Emporiums

