# Pegataur Knight

**description**: Pegataur The noble pegataurs are celestial creatures with the graceful upper body of a high elf and a pegasus's majestic lower body. Most pegataurs have fair-skinned upper bodies with almond blue or green eyes and long auburn, blonde, or silvery hair. Highland Dwellers. Pegataurs are native to the Olympian Glades of Arborea, but some clans also live in the Elysium, the Happy Hunting Grounds, and the Material Plane. They build their homes on the sides of cliffs and mountains, carving out great cavern complexes with vaulted ceilings and intricately designed furnishings. Pegasi often live with pegataurs, as the latter have an affinity with pegasi and can even communicate with them. Celestial Ties. Pegataurs obey and serve the Seldarine, the pantheon of elven gods, unquestioningly. They work with and maintain good relationships with angels, archons, elves, good-aligned cloud and storm giants, and guardinals. Adventurers needing aerial transport may seek the aid of pegataurs, as long as the adventurers are good-aligned and the reason they need it for is in line with the pegataur's beliefs and ideals. Aerial Knights. Pegataurs are skilled aerial warriors. They typically open combat by raining their foes with arrows while remaining out of melee reach. They then finish their enemies off by charging at them with pikes. Vigilant Sentinels. Pegataurs are wary of Lolth's followers and fiends of all types. To keep them from taking a foothold in the Material Plane, pegataurs aid elves in patrolling the highlands, valleys, and the forests. They will even work with or employ good-aligned adventurers if needed, such as breaching areas where they might be too large to enter. Traits Charge. If the pegataur moves at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Spear attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 14 (4d6) piercing damage. Fey Ancestry. The pegataur has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put them to sleep. Threatening. Creatures provoke an opportunity attack from the pegataur when they move 5 feet or more while within the pegataur's reach, and if the pegataur hits a creature with an opportunity attack, the target's speed is reduced to 0 until the end of the current turn. Actions Multiattack. The centaur makes three attacks: two with its Spear and one with its Hooves. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage, or 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack and the target is marked until the end of the pegataur's next turn. This effect ends early if the pegataur is incapacitated or it dies, or if someone else marks the target. While it is within 5 feet of the pegataur, a creature marked by the pegataur has disadvantage on any attack roll that doesn't target the pegataur. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Bonus Actions Punish the Marked (1/Turn). The pegataur makes a melee weapon attack against a creature marked by it if the creature dealt damage to anyone other than the pegataur during the last turn. The pegataur's melee weapon attack has advantage on the attack roll, and if it hits, the attack's weapon deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage to the target.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

