# Penitent

**description**: Librarian Kristoff’s Journal Entry #32 – The Penitent This plane does not birth them, yet they feast on the limbs of its denizens. Could they be aberrations born from the Scourge's corruption upon our citizenry? I find it improbable, given their uniform golden masks – an oddity unlikely from simple mutation. Perhaps remnants of church weaponry of the First War? That too seems a stretch. The sacred tomes affixed to their sides bear no resemblance to any religious texts I have encountered. An important piece of the puzzle that deepens the mystery surrounding them. One particularly unsettling observation – they possess a capability akin to 'reproduction.' Yet, instead of a natural birthing process, they seem to corrupt other beings into their likeness, each new convert subsequently donning a similar golden mask. They abhor sunlight and shun noise, fleeing from both like beasts before a flame. This would explain why they rarely appear above the surface. My studies lead me to speculate on the existence of an overarching hive mind, a singular consciousness puppeteering these drones. Traits Accursed Body. The penitent's body is barely held together. Whenever the penitent takes more than 50 damage, one of its limbs disintegrates into ash (each of its two arms first, then each of its two legs). If the penitent reattaches a lost limb, even if it belonged to a different humanoid, it regains 50 hit points. Cleaving Strikes. When the penitent makes a melee weapon attack, it can make another attack with the same weapon against another creature within 5 feet of the original target and within reach as part of the same attack. If the penitent does so, its speed is halved until the end of its turn. Magic Weapons. The penitent's weapon attacks are magical. Mask of Penitence. While wearing its mask, the penitent is blinded and immune to madness. Actions Multiattack. The penitent makes three greatsword attacks. It can use Hands of Punishment in place of one attack. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) slashing damage. Hands of Punishment. The penitent destroys one of the limbs in its crucible to summon blasphemous hands. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point that the penitent can see within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 2 (1d4) psychic damage and be restrained by the hands until the end of the penitent's next turn. While restrained in this way, corruption seeps within the target and it has disadvantage on Intelligence checks and Intelligence saving throws. Bonus actions Bloodthirsty Dash. The penitent moves up to its speed towards a hostile creature it can see without provoking opportunity attacks. Limb Offering. The penitent warps the intellect of a creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or extend one of its limbs forward (the penitent's choice). If the penitent hits the target with a greatsword attack before the end of its turn, the limb is cut clean (see 'Losing Limbs'). The penitent then adds the limb to its crucible. Reattach Limb (3/Day). The penitent magically attaches one of the limbs in its crucible to itself or a willing creature within its reach if that creature is missing the limb. The limb is fully functional, and the creature regains any abilities it lost due to the limb being severed. The penitent starts with 1d4 limbs in its crucible. Reactions Blasphemous Prison. When a creature starts its turn within 5 feet of the penitent, or enters the area for the first time on a turn, the penitent can entrap it in its crucible. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be trapped in the crucible. While trapped, the target is restrained, has total cover against effects outside the crucible, and takes 7 (2d6) fire damage at the start of each of the penitent’s turns. A trapped creature, or an ally within reach, can use its action to make a DC 19 Athletics check, toppling the crucible and freeing the creature on a success. If toppled, the crucible magically teleports onto the back of the penitent at the end of its next turn. Alternatively, the penitent can recall it as a bonus action. While not carrying the crucible, the penitent can’t use its Hands of Punishment, Limb Offering, or Reattach Limb actions.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: humanoid and monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

