# Pentorfin Overlord

**description**: Pentorfin overlords are imposing figures, standing between 7 and 7–1/2 feet tall. Their scarred features tell a story of suffering, but their sharp teeth and dark pits for eyes demonstrate they exited their crucible of suffering as wholly evil creatures. They are undisputed swordsmen who can also manipulate minds and objects through their own force of will. Lords of the Apocalypse. Pentorfin overlords began their existence as peaceful and technologically savvy people whose cooperation and keen minds allowed them to achieve space travel early in their development. Seeking to lift up the natives on a neighboring world and also obtain resources vital to develop their space travel to extend beyond their solar system, they made peaceful overtures to the less technologically developed species after a period of observation. The pentorfin encountered a warlike and highly superstitious people, who, despite their comparative lack of technological prowess managed to repel the pentorfin. The fallen pentorfin awoke a nascent desire for humanoid flesh in the so-called nambocs, who believed they gained power over the invaders by consuming the flesh of fallen foes. The pentorfin became ever more determined to route the nambocs and made very little progress against the supposed lesser species, due to the nambocs inherent magical abilities and an instinctive understanding of the pentorfin borne from devouring them. A horrific incident where groups of commandeered pentorfin ships and devastated the pentorfin homeworld significantly reduced the pentorfin population. This turning point caused the pentorfin to redouble their efforts and forced them down the dark path they follow to this day. Pentorfin scientists performed experiments on captured nambocs to understand their abilities, and they synthesized a solution from namboc brains to grant the pentorfin similar abilities. This mutagen, combined with the lack of crops on their own wasted homeworld, caused the pentorfin to revert to a form of cannibalism similar to the nambocs. The pentorfin, with their newfound powers and already superior firepower, defeated the nambocs, enslaved the survivors, using them for manual labor and as a food supply. Slave Masters. Despite embracing a heretofore unknown savagery, the pentorfin retained their powerful intellects. They developed space flight, giving them access to the far reaches of the galaxy. They further advanced their genetic science, and they devized a way to convert other humanoids into troll-like beings completely under pentorfin control. They now travel through space seeking to enslave all species they come into contact with. They usually capture a few specimens, whom they convert select few into pentorfin trolls acting as sleeper agents for their masters. These trolls have the capability to subvert others to pentorfin dominance and work their way up the chain in government and industry. When the time comes for a full-scale invasion, these pentorfin trolls, along with otherwise free-willed lackeys who seek to profit from a deal with pentorfin overlords, render their worlds helpless against the invasion. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (pentorfin)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

