# Perishing

**description**: The Perishing. The nightmare creatures of Braythe. No one, not even the champions, knows what they truly are. Only one thing is certain: They seek the complete and utter destruction of all world-islands in Braythe, and all life upon them. But they are by far no mindless killing machines. The Perishing are ancient, possibly immortal creatures with both high intelligence and millennia of experience. They are as much embodiments of death and destruction as they are schemers and manipulators, even gaining a small group of Braythian champions as allies. On the worlds of these paragons, the Perishing are glorified, sometimes even worshipped. They are also clearly individuals, wearing different clothes or armour (although they seem to have a very distinct racial style) and equipment. They cannot speak, but the Perishing can communicate telepathically - if they touch the creature first. The problem is that any touched limb or other body part quickly withers and rots, leaving the victim crippled. Usually, though, they do not care enough to talk. In the rare case that a Perishing dies, its body and its entire equipment bursts into a cloud of purple and crimson that quickly dissolves into nothingness. The death of one of their own seems to deeply affect the Perishing. The emotions they showed, if briefly, ranged from shock and pain to raging hatred - the latter, of course, being only a more intense version of what they show all the time. Still, they don't let such an event distract them from their goals. Equipment The Perishing commonly wear magical armour and clothing, as well as 1d4+1 magic items that are at least very rare. These items seem to be created by the Perishing themselves, and no other race can use these objects. If a Perishing dies, its equipment dissolves with it, even if the item is not close to the creature anymore. If a Perishing takes an item that is not crafted by their own race, they prefer not to use it. Usually, they give such items to their servants and allies, or simply destroy them - unless they are of specific importance to them. Remember to adjust the Challenge Rating of a Perishing according to the equipment they carry with them. Anatomy The Perishing are slender, but muscular humanoids, a bit larger than a regular human. Their movement is slow, almost gentle. The body of a Perishing is split in half: The left side (from the viewer’s perspective) dull grey, the gruesome face showing a white eye that seems to stare at anyone looking at the creature. The thin lips form a meaningless, dreadful smile. The lips are grown together, strings of flesh and skin connecting the upper and lower side. The other side of the body looks like burnt coal and searing flesh, traces of blistering ash constantly blown off the dark skin, even when there’s no wind. There is a gaping hole where the eye should be, with nothing but a scorching ember inside an infinite darkness. Their white teeth, which they do not seem to use in battle, are sharp like fangs on this part. Their burnt lips are constantly moving - on this side of the face only - as if reciting something, but no words can be heard. Some witnesses believe they noticed a subtle, but constant expression of pain on this half. The Perishing are completely hairless, their skin so thick it is hard to pierce through or cut it. Their hands end in dangerous claws. Reproduction It is completely unknown if and how the Perishing reproduce. Sages assume there is a fixed number of Perishing, and no new members of the race are ever created, but that might just be wishful thinking. Ecology and Habitats The Perishing can exist in the Braythian Void unhindered. With their ability to hover, they can move through the purple clouds as if it was air. They are immune to the life-draining effect of the Void, and their equipment is unaffected as well. It is unknown where the Perishing come from, or if they have some kind of home world. They are usually seen invading a world-island, or on a mission to advance one of their schemes. Dietary Needs and Habits No one has ever seen the Perishing consume anything - unless their Rotting Touch somehow nourishes them. Most sages believe they do not need any kind of sustenance. Social Structure While the Perishing are sometimes seen solitary, they prefer to travel (or fight) in groups of up to six. Most of the time, they appear as pairs of two. They take great interest in what their companions do, but there seems to be no hierarchy. The Perishing never intervene in the actions of one another. They have been seen to act dissatisfied with each other, though, especially if a Perishing couldn't (or decided not to) kill a victim. Perception and Sensory Capabilities Although they have normal eyesight, they do not seem to rely on it. Rather, they have a supernatural ability to sense their surroundings, noticing even what happens behind them. When fighting with allies, they have been witnessed to react when spoken to, so they seem to be able to hear, although no ears are visible.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: any evil
- Expansion: 17295
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

