# Pescavitus

**description**: Fine iridescent scales reflect the sun's rays in a flashing, multihued spectrum of light. The creature's fins are long and fine, resembling a billowing cloud, and its fishlike body gives way to a symmetrical humanoid face. Pescavituses are sometimes called the fish of life by sailors who have been lucky enough to be near one after a shipwreck or sinking. Pescavituses cruise the seas alone or in groups no bigger than three, healing injured creatures, helping stranded land-dwellers to make their way to shore, and addressing threats to the ocean, such as fiendish activity or the presence of some malign artifact. Angel Fish. Pescavituses originate in the perfectly ordered oceans of the Upper Planes. Schools of the creatures roam those waters, living in perfect harmony with goodly merfolk and pelagic devas (see). On the Material Plane, they often ally with incandescent ones (see) when facing great threats in the shallower parts of the oceans, where pelagic devas rarely roam. Pescavituses understand the delicate balance of the sea—and how harsh and unforgiving its natural cycles can be—and they don't work against such forces. However, they happily heal the injuries of beasts that have evaded a predator. Mistaken for Monsters. Pescavituses have historically been confused for ningyos (see Creature Codex), often to the detriment of the creature that makes the mistake. Mortals who eat the flesh of a pescavitus, hoping it will grant them eternal life, often find their lifespan cut short as injury or exhaustion overtake them. Celestial Weapons. The pescavitus's weapon attacks are magical. When the pescavitus hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 2d4 radiant damage (included in the attack). Immortal Nature. The pescavitus doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Magic Resistance. The pescavitus has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Piscine Curse. When a creature reduces the pescavitus to 0 hp, that creature must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be cursed for 5 days. A cursed creature can be detected as a fiend with spells such as detect evil and good. In addition, for the duration, the cursed creature gains only half the benefit of magic that restores hp and gains no benefits from finishing a long rest. A creature that consumes any amount of the flesh of a pescavitus is automatically cursed. The curse can be lifted by a remove curse spell or similar magic. Water Breathing. The pescavitus can breathe only underwater. Actions Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 5 (2d4) radiant damage. Air Bubble (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The pescavitus creates an air bubble around the heads of any number of creatures that are touching it. A creature that benefits from an air bubble can breathe underwater and gains a swimming speed of 20 feet, if it doesn't already have a swimming speed. The air bubbles hold enough air for 24 hours of breathing, divided by the number of breathing creatures that received an air bubble. Healing Touch (3/Day). The pescavitus touches another creature. The target magically regains 5 (1d8 + 1) hp and is freed from any disease, poison, blindness, or deafness.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

