# Phantom Lord

**description**: A phantom appears as a 7-foot tall vaguely-humanoid-shaped shadow with intensely glowing red eyes. It is a restless undead spirit filled with hatred and malice. It moves only under the cover of darkness and always avoids the sunlight. Violent Origins. One becomes a phantom when two requirements are met. First, the phantom must have been a murderous psychopath who died a violent death before it could fulfill a goal it had in life, such as protecting someone it obsessed over, slaying every member of an enemy clan, or as grim as completing its macabre art collection of a hundred corpses. Second, its remains were not burned or buried properly. Bound Spirit. Upon returning from death as a phantom, the insane spirit seeks to complete its goal. However, because the phantom is bound to its place of death, it cannot move more than a mile away from it. Powerless, it does what it could do to satisfy its obsession: it waits and looks for new victims within its area that might have enough similarities with its real target and satisfy its compulsions. Evil Reborn. To permanently destroy a phantom, one must first find and burn its remains or give it a proper burial ritual. If not, a destroyed phantom will return after 666 days, continue its mayhem, and seek vengeance upon those that defeated it. A Phantom Lord's Lair A phantom lord lurks in the ruins of where it used to be active in life, such as a keep, mansion, opera house, or theater. A phantom lord attracts the company of other incorporeal undead, such as ghosts, specters, and wraiths. A phantom lord encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 17 (18,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the phantom lord can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the phantom lord can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The phantom lord casts darkness , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. The phantom lord doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. It lasts until the phantom lord uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the phantom lord is destroyed. The phantom lord creates a numbing wave of negative energy. Each creature within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 16 (3d10) necrotic damage, can't use reactions, and its speed is halved. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. The phantom lord summons 2d4 shadows , 1d6 specters , 1 ghost , or 1 wraith . The summoned Undead appears within 60 feet of it. The Undead obeys its telepathic commands, which can reach anywhere in the lair. Traits Incorporeal Movement. The phantom lord can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the phantom lord fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The phantom lord takes 5 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Actions Multiattack. The phantom lord uses Insidious Touch twice. It can use Death Mark or Deathly Visage in place of one use of Insidious Touch. Insidious Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) necrotic damage plus 9 (2d8) psychic damage and the target has disadvantage on saving throws against being frightened until the end of the phantom lord's next turn. Death Mark. The phantom lord targets a creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target is magically imprinted with the phantom's sigil, which appears on the forehead of the creature. While the creature has this mark, the phantom always knows its exact location and has advantage on attack rolls against it. The mark lasts for 1 minute. If the phantom lord hits a marked creature with its Insidious Touch, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target is reduced to 0 hit points. Constructs, Fiends, and Undead are immune to this effect. The phantom lord can only have one marked target at a time. If the phantom lord uses Death Mark while it already has a marked target, the previous Death Mark ends. Casting remove curse, dispel evil, greater restoration, or a similar spell on a marked target ends the effect. Deathly Visage. Each non-undead creature within 60 feet of the phantom lord that can see it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. If the save fails by 5 or more, the target is reduced to 0 hit points. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this phantom lord's Deathly Visage for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Shadow Jump. The phantom lord teleports, along with any equipment is it wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Both the space it teleports from and the space it teleports to must be in dim light or darkness. Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the phantom lord takes the Hide action. Legendary Actions The phantom lord gains 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The phantom lord regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Glide. The phantom lord moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Touch. The phantom lord uses Insidious Touch. Dreadful Whispers (Costs 2 Actions). The phantom lord targets up to three creatures it can see within 30 feet of it. Each target must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target hears the phantom lord's unearthly voice calling to it, takes 13 (3d8) psychic damage, and is incapacitated and its speed is halved until the end of the phantom lord's next turn. On a success, the target takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

