# Pit Fiend Aristocrat

**description**: The most powerful of the greater devils, pit fiend aristocrats answer only to archdevils. They represent the most cunning and resourceful of devil nobility. Their mere presence inspires dread in the ranks of any lesser fiends. Unequaled Power. The pit fiend aristocrat is exceptionally strong for its size, and can brutally manhandle creatures twice its size. Aside from its superior strength, the pit fiend aristocrat sports an array of deadly abilities and spells that far exceed that of a regular pit fiend. Crafty General. The pit fiend aristocrat is not just feared for its superior combat abilities. Its more intelligent competitors both admire and hate it for its brilliance in warfare tactics, and its uncanny ability to always be a few steps ahead of them. The most notable pit fiend aristocrats are members of the Dark Eight, an organization of generals who were responsible for managing aspects of the Blood War, and report directly to Asmodeus. They are Baalzephon, Corin, Dagos, Furcas, Pearza, Zaebos, Zapan, and Zimimar. Traits Fear Aura. A creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the pit fiend must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw, unless the pit fiend is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from the pit fiend by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn't take the Dash action. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn't have line of sight to the pit fiend, the creature can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the pit fiend's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the pit fiend fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The pit fiend has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The pit fiend's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The pit fiend makes four attacks: one with its Bite, one with its Claw, one with its Mace, and one with its Tail. It can use Fling in place of its Claw attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d6 + 8) piercing damage. The target must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned. Until this poison ends, the target can't regain hit points, and it takes 21 (6d6) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. The poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) slashing damage, and if the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and the pit fiend can automatically hit the target with its Claw but can't make Claw attacks against other targets. Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 21 (6d6) fire damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Fling. One Large or smaller object held or creature grappled by the pit fiend is thrown up to 60 feet and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes a solid surface, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone. Teleport. The pit fiend magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Spellcasting. The pit fiend casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 22): At will: darkness, detect magic, fireball 3/day each: hold monster, wall of fire 1/day each: power word stun, programmed illusion Hellfire Gaze (Recharge 6). The pit fiend's eyes projects intense fiery energy in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 42 (12d6) fire damage and is vulnerable to fire damage until the end of the devil's next turn. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated. A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of fine ash and slag. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a true resurrection or a wish spell. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. Legendary Actions The pit fiend can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The pit fiend regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The pit fiend moves up to half its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The pit fiend makes a Claw, Mace, or Tail attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The pit fiend uses Teleport. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The pit fiend uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

