# Planetary Beast (CR 3, Medium)

**description**: Creating Planetary Beasts Depending on the campaign setting, you may need some more versatility in creating a quick threat that doesn't immediately identify with an Earth creature. Instead, you can create common planetary beasts by choosing from a list of characteristics and features to apply to a base stat block. While using this method isn't nearly as versatile as creating your own stats from scratch, it still provides an easy way to quickly populate your alien region with indigenous animals . If you wish your creature to possess more than typical characteristics, consider using one of the generic creature stats provided earlier. Expanded rules for creating creatures and threats, as well as adjusting a creature's challenge rating, are described in the Master Technician's Guide . You can build a common creature stat block by using the following steps: 1. Describe the Creature Establishing a look, feel, and nature of a creature enables you to better determine which stats you wish to apply to the base stat block. What size is the creature? What is its natural habitat? What and how does it eat? Does it have fur, scales, a leathery hide, or something else entirely? 2. Choose a Base Stat Block The stat blocks provided below represent generic template to apply your list of traits. They are separated by three different challenge ratings: CR 1/4, CR 1, and CR 3. Choose the stat block which best corresponds with the level of the encounter you wish to build. 3. Determine Stats and Actions Establish the creature's stats using the following steps: Size. Choose the creature's size from Small, Medium, Large, and Huge. Your choice of size also determines the creature's hit points. Damage Resistances (if any). Choose from acid, cold, fire, lightning, necrotic, poison, radiant, and thunder. Additional Features. Choose up to three from the Additional Features table (see "Using Generic Creatures"). Attacks. Use the Base Attacks table to assign one Primary attack, up to two Secondary attacks, and, if available, one Ranged attack. Your choices also determine each attack's damage type. Optional Effects. Some actions may include additional effects you can add to the attack. The saving throw and grapple DC for each of those effects are as follows: CR 1/4: DC 11 CR 1: DC 13 CR 3: DC 14 Base Attacks Attack Dmg. Type Optional Effect Melee Beak/Horn piercing — Bite piercing The target is grappled. Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained and the creature can't bite another target. Claw/Talon slashing — Hooves bludgeoning The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Poison Bite ( Secondary attack only ) piercing Target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or become poisoned until the end of their next turn. Slam/ Punch bludgeoning — Stomp bludgeoning Creature has advantage to hit a prone target. Tail/Fin bludgeoning The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. Tentacle bludgeoning The target is grappled. Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained and the creature can't attack another target with that tentacle. Tusk piercing — Ranged Rock bludgeoning — Spike/Quill piercing — 4. Finalize Your Creation Give your planetary beast a name and as provide as much background as you like. Additional information is useful for providing additional flavor to a planetary region or for gaining knowledge through skills such as Xenobiology.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

