# Plasmid

**description**: Plasmids are shapeshifters, magebred by the sahuagin of the Thunder Sea using mimic stock infused with the ichor of the dreamers. Plasmids serve both as deadly guardians and living tools, reshaping their mutable bodies to serve the needs of their sahuagin masters. Skin of Stone and Steel. A plasmid can change the texture of its flesh as well as its appearance. In addition to making the plasmid resistant to injury, this allows the creature to assume many functional forms. A plasmid can serve as a door with no lock or a chest with no lid, creating an obstacle that can only be opened by killing the plasmid. Plasmids can also be trained to assume shapes that serve as functional tools. A plasmid can become an alchemist’s lab or a smith’s forge, providing all the elements needed to pursue a trade. While this allows the plasmid to “serve as a tool,” the plasmid remains a Large creature; it essentially becomes a workbench, with individual smaller tools connected to the primary mass by fibrous strands. Loyal Servants . . . For Now. Plasmids possess a passive form of telepathy that allows them to sense the commands of nearby sahuagin. While they are conscious, they have a limited sense of self and no desires beyond service. At least, that’s how they were designed and what the sahuagin believe. But it might be possible for a plasmid to develop greater intellect and independence—or for the plasmids of a city to be shaped by the desires of the local dreamer. Sahuagin The sahuagin dominate the Thunder Sea. Proud and predatory, the sahuagin see the creatures of the surface world as primitive and weak. The sahuagin are generally content to ignore the lesser creatures that dwell above the water, but when there is blood in the water, they are implacable and deadly foes. Through magebreeding and induced mutation they have created a host of terrors, such as the duplicitous malenti, the four-armed barons, the shapeshifting plasmids, and the terrifying Claws of Sha’argon. Traits Adaptive Shapeshifting (Amorphous Form Only). When in its true, amorphous form, the plasmid gains one of the following benefits. As an action, it can select a different benefit. The plasmid gains truesight with a range of 30 feet. The plasmid gains blindsense with a range of 60 feet. The plasmid’s walking and swimming speeds increase to 30 feet. The plasmid’s vicious pseudopod deals an extra 1d6 acid damage on a hit. Amphibious. The plasmid can breathe air and water. False Appearance (Object Form Only). While the plasmid remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from an ordinary object. Fast Shapechanger. The plasmid can use its bonus action to polymorph into an object or back into its true, amorphous form. Its statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Receptive Telepathy. The plasmid is considered a shark for the purpose of being magically commanded by any sahuagin’s Shark Telepathy feature. Solid State (Object Form Only). When formed into an inanimate object, the plasmid has an AC of 18 and regains 10 hit points at the start of each of its turn. However, the plasmid’s speed becomes 0 in this form and it cannot attack. It can be used as an item or a set of artisan’s tools when it is in this form. Actions Multiattack. The plasmid makes three vicious pseudopod attacks. Vicious Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity (shapechanger)
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 20973
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Exploring Eberron

