# Pontiff Preceptor

**description**: Wax Elementals A demiplane bridging the Material Plane and Elemental Chaos, the Plane of Wax is called home by a curious array of lipid-based creatures. It is said that every living creature of the Material Plane has a waxen analogue, a doppelgänger with an eerily-fixed smile and glossy skin. Referred to as waxkin, these elementals can draw on the thoughts and memories of their material analogue, though without the same moral and ethical restraints. The Pontiff began life as an ancient elemental bound to the service of the Empyreal Solar. Upon being infused with divine energy, this elemental’s newfound sentience focused on the tenet to which it had been exposed for centuries: enlightening others. As is the case with creatures from the Plane of Wax, the creature took this as a literal instruction detached from moral and ethical restraints, and melted the congregation, adding their fat to its own body. Regional Effects The region around the Pontiff’s lair is warped by its magic, which creates the following effects: Flames burn brighter. The light radius of nonmagical flames is doubled within the 6 miles surrounding the Pontiff’s lair. The fuel source for these flames is depleted twice as fast. Creatures within 1 mile of the Pontiff’s lair feel a sense of inner calm, and strong negative emotions, such as anxiety and anger, are suppressed. Wild animals are docile and less likely to attack travellers. Creatures within 1 mile of the Pontiff’s lair feel the intense urge to eat more than usual. It takes twice as much food per day to satisfy creatures living under this effect. If the Pontiff dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Lair Actions So long as the Pontiff is in its lair, it can evoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. The saving throw DC and damage of the lair actions depend on the level of the adventure, as shown in the Variable Lair Action Statistics table. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vmod Vdam 4th 12 +4 3 ( 1d6 ) 9th 15 +7 10 ( 3d6 ) 14th 16 +8 14 ( 4d6 ) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Pontiff takes one of the following lair actions; the Pontiff can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Render. The Pontiff points to a wax guardian that it can see within 15 feet of it, causing it to melt. The Pontiff regains hit points equal to the wax guardian’s remaining hit points. The wax guardian is destroyed as its essence is absorbed into the Pontiff. Flash. The Pontiff intensifies the cathedral’s luminosity in a blinding flash. Non-constructs within 20 feet of the lair’s bright light sources (marked on the maps with an L) must succeed on a VDC Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of their next turn. Wax Floor. The Pontiff points to a 10-foot square on the lair’s ground that it can see within 30 feet of it. The area turns into 2-foot-deep wax that is difficult terrain. Each creature in that area when the wax appears must succeed on a VDC Dexterity saving throw or sink into the wax and become restrained . A creature can use its action to attempt a VDC Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within its reach and ending the restrained condition on a success. On initiative count 20 of the following round, the wax hardens, the area is no longer difficult terrain, and the DC to free a restrained creature increases to VDC + 3 .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: elemental (shapechanger)
- Alignment: lawful nuetral
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

