# Priest of Fierna

**description**: Priest Priests bring the teachings of their gods to the common folk. They are the spiritual leaders of temples and shrines and often hold positions of influence in their communities. Evil priests⁠ might work openly under a tyrant, or they might be the leaders of religious sects hidden in the shadows of good society, overseeing depraved rites. A priest typically has one or more acolytes to help with religious ceremonies and other sacred duties. Diabolical Cults of Fierna Fierna is a master manipulator. Mortals who desire success in love or who seek to become beloved leaders at the head of a band of fanatics are drawn to striking bargains with her. Goals: Control over the emotions of others, turning them into puppets and playthings Typical Cultist: Acolyte, archmage, bandit captain, cult fanatic, cultist, knight, noble, priest, spy Signature Spells: Friends (cantrip), charm person (1st level), suggestion (2nd level), hypnotic pattern (3rd level) Her cultists can gain the Infernal Loyalty trait. Cult leaders can also gain the Loyalty beyond Death trait. Traits Divine Eminence. As a bonus action⁠, the priest can expend a spell slot to cause its melee weapon attacks to magically deal an extra 10 (3d6) radiant damage to a target on a hit. This benefit lasts until the end of the turn. If the priest⁠ expends a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the extra damage increases by 1d6 for each level above 1st. Infernal Loyalty. This creature has advantage on saving throws while it can see a creature within 30 feet of it that has the Loyalty beyond Death trait. Spellcasting. The priest is a 5th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). The priest⁠ has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): light, sacred flame, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, guiding bolt, sanctuary 2nd level (3 slots): lesser restoration, spiritual weapon 3rd level (2 slots): dispel magic, spirit guardians Actions Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage. Guiding Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (4d6) radiant damage, and the next attack roll made against this target before the end of the priest's next turn has advantage, thanks to the mystical dim light glittering on the target until then. Spiritual Weapon. Melee Spell Attack: +5 to hit, casting range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+1) force damage. The priest, as a bonus action⁠, creates a floating, spectral weapon within 60 feet that lasts for one minute or until the priest casts this spell again. When the priest⁠ casts the spell, it can make a melee spell attack⁠ against a creature within 5 feet of the weapon. As a bonus action⁠ on the priest's turn, it can move the weapon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack⁠ against a creature within 5 feet of it. Reactions Loyalty beyond Death (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As a reaction when an ally this creature can see is reduced to 0 hit points, that ally is instead reduced to 1 hit point and gains temporary hit points equal to this creature’s Charisma score + half its number of Hit Dice.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Any Race)
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

