# Priest of Osybus

**description**: The priests of Osybus are necromancers in the Domain of Dread known as Barovia who once venerated—and then were betrayed by—a lich of unfathomable ambition and power. The priests steal the souls of others to fuel their wicked magic. A priest of Osybus contains this soul power in shadowy tattoos, which the priest can draw on to defy death and become an Undead monster. Though formidable, the priests of Osybus aren’t truly immortal, a fact that chafes them greatly. They have forged a pact with the Dark Powers that will grant them immortality if they free Count Strahd von Zarovich from the Mists that imprison him. To achieve this goal, they orchestrate far-reaching and complex machinations that are virtually inscrutable to all but their archenemies, the Ulmist inquisitors. Boons of Undeath When a priest of Osybus drops to 0 hit points, the priest might revive with a benefit from the Boons of Undeath table below. Before adventurers face a priest of Osybus, you can decide that the priest has revived with one or more of these boons of your choice. If you do so, the priest is Undead rather than Humanoid. A priest can receive each boon only once. Boons of Undeath d6 Boon 1 Dread. Eerie whispers can be heard around the priest. Any non-Undead creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of the priest must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have the frightened condition until the start of the creature’s next turn. 2 Ectoplasmic. Otherworldly slime drips off the priest and fades away moments later, leaving a greenish stain. When any creature starts its turn within 10 feet of the priest, the priest can reduce that creature’s speed by 10 feet until the start of the creature’s next turn, until which the creature is covered in slime. In addition, as an action, the priest can use the slime covering its own body to make itself look and feel like any creature that is Medium or Small while retaining its own game statistics. This transformation lasts for 8 hours or until the priest drops to 0 hit points. 3 Vampiric. When the priest deals necrotic damage to any creature, the priest gains a number of temporary hit points equal to half that necrotic damage. The priest’s speed also increases by 10 feet. 4 Blazing. The priest’s flesh sloughs off, and its skeleton crumbles away, leaving only its skull. It uses the flameskull stat block, but it retains its Tattoo of Osybus trait, and all fire damage it deals becomes necrotic damage. The tattoo of Osybus is carved into the skull’s forehead. 5 Spectral. The priest appears wraithlike, and its challenge rating increases by 1. It gains resistance to all damage except force, radiant, and psychic damage, and it is vulnerable to radiant damage. It can also move through creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain, but it takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside a creature or an object. 6 Deathly. The priest’s visage becomes bone white, and its challenge rating increases by 1. It can cast Animate Dead and Create Undead once per day each, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability, and it gains the following action: Circle of Death (Spell; Recharge 5–6). Each creature in a 60-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the priest can see within 150 feet of itself must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Traits Tattoo of Osybus. If the priest drops to 0 hit points, roll on the Boons of Undeath table for the boon the priest receives. The priest dies if it receives a boon it already has. If it receives a new boon, it revives at the start of its next turn with half its hit points restored, and its creature type is now Undead. To prevent this revival, the tattoo of Osybus on the priest’s body must be destroyed. The tattoo is invulnerable while the priest has at least 1 hit point. The tattoo is otherwise an object with AC 15, 15 hp, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. It regains all its hit points at the end of every combatant’s turn. Actions Multiattack. The priest makes two attacks. Soul Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) piercing damage, and if the target is a creature, it has the paralyzed condition until the start of the priest’s next turn. If this damage reduces a Medium or smaller creature to 0 hit points, the creature dies, and its soul is trapped in the priest’s body, manifesting as a shadowy Soul Tattoo on the priest. The soul is freed if the priest dies. Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) necrotic damage, and the target can’t regain hit points until the start of the priest’s next turn. Bonus Actions Soul Tattoo (Recharge 5–6). The priest touches one of the Soul Tattoos on its body. The tattoo vanishes as the trapped soul manifests as a shadowy creature that appears in an unoccupied space the priest can see within 30 feet of itself. The creature has the size and silhouette of its original body, but it otherwise uses the stat block of a shadow. The shadow obeys the priest’s mental commands (no action required) and takes its turn immediately after the priest. If the shadow is within 5 feet of the priest, it can take an action to reappear on the priest’s flesh, regaining all its hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 30583
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Vecna - Eve of Ruin

