# Priest of Mephistopheles

**description**: Priests Priests bring the teachings of their gods to the common folk. They are the spiritual leaders of temples and shrines and often hold positions of influence in their communities. Evil priests might work openly under a tyrant, or they might be the leaders of religious sects hidden in the shadows of good society, overseeing depraved rites. A priest typically has one or more acolytes to help with religious ceremonies and other sacred duties. Diabolical Cults of Mephistopheles As a master of the arcane arts, Mephistopheles finds eager recruits among those who study magic. Any monsters that use spells, such as storm giants⁠ and oni, might follow him, and wizards’ guilds and conclaves of sages are the most likely to come under his influence. Goals: Magical skill and power, backed with the will to use it to crush rivals Typical Cultist: Archmage, cult fanatic, cultist, mage, priest Signature Spells: Fire bolt (cantrip), burning hands (1st level), flaming sphere (2nd level), fireball (3rd level) Mephistopheles’s cultists can gain the Spell Shield⁠ trait. Cult leaders can also gain the Spell Leech trait. Traits Divine Eminence. As a bonus action⁠, the priest can expend a spell slot to cause its melee weapon attacks to magically deal an extra 10 (3d6) radiant damage to a target on a hit. This benefit lasts until the end of the turn. If the priest⁠ expends a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the extra damage increases by 1d6 for each level above 1st. Spellcasting. The priest is a 5th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). The priest⁠ has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): light, sacred flame, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, guiding bolt, sanctuary 2nd level (3 slots): lesser restoration, spiritual weapon 3rd level (2 slots): dispel magic, spirit guardians Spell Shield⁠. This creature gains advantage on saving throws against spells. If it succeeds on such a saving throw, it gains temporary hit points equal to the spell’s level. Spell Leech. As a bonus action⁠, this creature chooses one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. The target loses its lowest-level spell slot, and this creature gains it. Actions Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage. Guiding Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (4d6) radiant damage, and the next attack roll made against this target before the end of the priest's next turn has advantage, thanks to the mystical dim light glittering on the target until then. Spiritual Weapon. Melee Spell Attack: +5 to hit, casting range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+1) force damage. The priest, as a bonus action⁠, creates a floating, spectral weapon within 60 feet that lasts for one minute or until the priest⁠ casts this spell again. When the priest⁠ casts the spell, it can make a melee spell attack⁠ against a creature within 5 feet of the weapon. As a bonus action⁠ on the priest's turn, it can move the weapon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against a creature within 5 feet of it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Any Race)
- Source: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes

