# Primordial Cyclops

**description**: The first set of triplets born from the union of Earth and Sky, and the first of their kind. They were named Arges, Brontes and Steropes by their mother, Gaia. After being imprisoned within Tartarus, alongside their hundred-handed brothers, these Cyclops held no love for their father or for their surface-dwelling siblings. The Titans had abandoned them, not acknowledging their existence. So when six immortals known as the gods freed them from their bonds, there was no reason to refuse their alliance. The Smiths of the Gods. The three brothers forged the divine weapons of the gods: Zeus’s Lightning Bolt, Poseidon’s Trident and Hades’ Helm of Darkness. Their craftsmanship is said to be equal to that of Hephaestus, the god of the forge. Immortal Nature. Due to being born from the primordial forces of existence, the primordial cyclops are blessed with immortality. However, they do not possess the divine powers that their siblings, the Titans, or their descendants, the gods, wield. Giants Giants are rather plentiful amongst Greek monsters. Born most often from divine blood, although monstrous origins are not unheard of, they have a unique place in the world. Sometimes destructive and sometimes dutiful servants of the order of the world. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the cyclops fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The cyclops has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The cyclops' weapon attacks are magical. Poor Depth Perception. The cyclops has disadvantage on any attack roll against a target more than 30 feet away. Spellcasting. The cyclops' Spellcasting Ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: mending, produce flame 3/day each: animate objects, heat metal (as a 5th-level spell), fabricate 2/day each: magic weapon (as a 6th-level spell) 1/day each: elemental weapon (as a 7th-level spell), holy weapon Siege Monster. The cyclops deals double damage to objects and structures Actions Multiattack. The cyclops makes two hammer of the forge attacks. Hammer of the Forge. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 16 (3d10) fire damage. Rock Throw. Ranged Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 60/240ft., one target. Hit: 29 (4d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Forge's Downpour (Recharge 5-6). The cyclops summons three blazing comets from the lava-filled bowels of the earth which crash at three points he can see within 120 feet of him. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius, 60-foot-high cylinder centered on that point must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 35 (10d6) bludgeoning damage and 35 (10d6) fire damage and is knocked prone on a failed save. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and does not fall prone. Blessing of the Smiths (1/day). The cyclops touches a weapon, granting it a temporary state of near-godly perfection. For the next hour the blessed weapon gains the following benefits: it becomes magical if it wasn't already, has advantage on all attacks, scores a critical hit on a 18, 19 or 20 and deals an additional 11 (2d10) radiant damage. Legendary Actions Primordial Cyclops can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Primordial Cyclops regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The cyclops can move up to his speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. The cyclops can make a hammer of the forge attack. Smith's Specialty (Costs 2 actions). The cyclops can cast a spell that targets a weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: giant
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

