# Provincial Lord

**description**: Each Great Clan is ruled by a Clan Champion, first among its daimyō, or great lords. These lords administrate the provinces of the Emerald Empire. Provincial lords vary as widely in personality and capability as any other group, but most are in middle age or older and are seasoned political operators, commanders, and scholars. Their time is valuable, so they appreciate brevity and clarity from any who address them. While most no longer take up arms often, they can be extremely deadly in battle, for they often possess arms and armor of surpassing quality and a lifetime of experience fighting to maintain what is theirs at court and in combat. Occasionally, however, a younger samurai is thrust into this position by circumstance of inheritance. Clan Traditions. Although all lords rule their lands in the name of the Emperor, different clans have varied titles and customs associated with their lords, and cement their power in different ways. The daimyō of the Crane and Scorpion Clans are expected to be skilled at court, diplomacy, and navigating the bureaucracy of the Emerald Empire, as befitting their close ties with the Imperial families. By contrast, the noyan of the Unicorn Clan rely heavily on international relations and the Sand Road trade to bolster their clan’s political aspirations and the generals of the Lion Clan maintain the social standing of their clan through the impressive scope of their military might. The Crab Clan’s commanders are far less focused on impressive military accomplishments than results in protecting Rokugan. And the Dragon and Phoenix Clan’s leaders place spiritual matters over worldly concerns, staying on the sidelines of the political fray when action is not warranted. Ancient Armaments. Each great lord of Rokugan has access to a number of powerful awakened items, ancestral arms and armor that have come to possess supernatural qualities over centuries of use. Some of these weapons date back to the mythic foundations of the Empire. With a few exceptions, these weapons are not generally used day-to-day, and are instead kept safe in shrines, monasteries, or other protected sites in or near a daimyō’s keep. In times of direst need, however, they are brought forth to wreak devastation upon the enemies of the clan. Castles of Rokugan. Rokugan’s castles vary significantly by region, from mountain pass fortresses to the towering keeps of the Carpenter Wall to the finest palaces where diplomats, ambassadors, and negotiators hold court amidst works of stunning artistry, landscaping, and architecture. A provincial lord’s castle is generally staffed by a number of soldiers, both samurai sworn to their service and veteran ashigaru who fought in their armies. A lord’s castle is their lair, and they have access to their lair actions while within their own palace. Table A-5: Provincial Lord Motivations D6 Roll Provincial Lord Motivations 1 Believes that their neighboring lords are scheming against them. 2 Hates ruling, and wants to spend as little time as possible doing it to better pursue worldly pleasures. 3 Wants to find a successor to their position, having no heir or finding them unworthy. 4 Desires to make peace with a rival faction due to a personal connection. 5 Seeks to improve the lives of their people as much as possible. 6 Wants to expand their holdings as much as possible. Traits Ancestral Wargear (+2 CR). The provincial lord is often a seasoned warrior, and if called to command an army, wears and wields much heavier gear. If encountered on the battlefield, increase its AC to 21 (awakened segmented plate with a +3 bonus). Alternately, the GM could choose to have a provincial lord wear mundane segmented plate (AC 18) and carry an awakened weapon (+3). Actions Multiattack. The provincial lord makes three attacks. Katana. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) or 7 (1d10+2) slashing damage. Wakizashi. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 150 ft./600 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage. Lair Actions A provincial lord can use the following lair actions if encountered in its castle, and is considered CR 5 (1,800 XP). Guards! (Recharge 5–6). On initiative count 20 (losing ties), a provincial lord in their keep can call for reinforcements. Roll 1d4. After a number of rounds equal to the result of the roll, at count 0, three soldiers or one bodyguard (use the wandering duelist profile) arrives to protect their lord. If the provincial lord cannot shout to raise the alarm, or if the guard staff has somehow been dealt with, it cannot use this lair action. Weapons Stash (Recharge 6). On initiative count 20 (losing ties), the provincial lord in their keep can grab a weapon hidden in a convenient location, mounted on a wall, or sheathed in a rack. It has advantage on the first attack roll it makes with this weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any species)
- Alignment: any lawful
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

