# Psurlon Leader

**description**: One out of every hundred psurlons is a mutant with two heads, one at each end of its body, and a superior intellect. Other psurlons look to the two-headed ones for leadership. Psurlons Psurlons are malevolent, wormlike creatures that were ejected from the Far Realm long ago. They now live on the Astral Plane. A fully grown specimen is 7 feet long. They have legs that end in hooves and arms that end in hands with three long fingers. A psurlon’s eyeless head resembles that of an earthworm, capped by a maw ringed with teeth. Psurlons adorn themselves in richly colored robes and rarely wear armor or carry weapons. Psurlons live for thousands of years because they spend most of their time in the Astral Sea. Every hundred years or so, psurlons leave their astral strongholds, invade Wildspace systems, and indulge in a seven-year-long ceremony called the Feast of Worlds, during which they consume as many sentient life-forms as they can before returning to the Astral Plane. Psurlons prefer the flesh of humans and halflings but don’t mind feasting on other folk. They use their spellcasting abilities to infiltrate the settlements of their intended victims. On the Material Plane, psurlons have been known to work with mind flayers. Together, they collect victims to feed on; the illithids devour the victims’ brains while the psurlons consume the rest of the prey. Githyanki despise psurlons because of this alliance and attack psurlon strongholds in the Astral Sea wherever they are found. When a psurlon dies, other psurlons store the corpse in a safe place. As the corpse decays, the psurlons lay one or more eggs inside it. These eggs hatch 24 hours later, each one producing a Tiny worm. For the next seven days, the worms feed on the corpse and on each other until only one remains. This worm crawls out of the putrescent remains of its dead host as an adult psurlon. Traits Aberrant Mind. Magic can’t read the psurlon’s thoughts or put the psurlon to sleep. Two Heads. The psurlon has advantage on saving throws it makes to avoid or end the frightened, stunned, or unconscious condition on itself. While one of the psurlon’s heads is asleep, its other head is awake. Actions Multiattack. The psurlon makes two Bite attacks and two Claw attacks. It can also use Pacify (if available) or Psychic Crush. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) slashing damage. Pacify (Recharge 5–6). The psurlon targets one creature it can see within 120 feet of itself. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or fall unconscious for 10 minutes. The condition ends if the target takes any damage or if another creature uses its action to shake the target awake. Psychic Crush. The psurlon targets one creature it can see within 120 feet of itself. The target must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw, taking 21 (3d10 + 5) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting (Psionics). The psurlon casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): 2/day each: disguise self, mage armor (self only) 1/day each: dimension door, suggestion

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: typically lawful evil
- Expansion: 16643
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Spelljammer - Adventures in Space

