# Puppy

**description**: Bag of Puppies Wondrous Item, Very Rare This charming bag is actually an extradimensional puppy paradise. Its interior is a divinely designed dog resort that can comfortably house a thousand puppies. The puppies live in luxury. The bag provides them with as much air, food, and drink as they need while keeping them young for as long as they stay in. When found, a Bag of Puppies will typically hold about a thousand puppies. Unlike lesser bags, the Bag of Puppies is indestructible. Pick a Puppy. As an action, you can reach inside the bag and pick a puppy. Alternatively, you can use your action to place a puppy in the bag. Canine Flood. As an action, you can turn the bag inside out, releasing all thousand puppies in a 30-foot-radius sphere of puppies. This canine flood persists for one round as puppies tumble and fall, heavily obscuring the area. The ground in a 30-foot-radius circle becomes difficult terrain as puppies scurry about. Any Medium or smaller creature that enters the circle for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there must succeed on a DC 15 Strength or Dexterity saving throw (the creature chooses the ability to use and may willingly fail the save) or fall prone and become grappled (escape DC 15) as enthusiastic and playful puppies jump onto it. The circle lasts for 3d6 rounds, until the puppies get tired from all the play. Optional Rule: Moving Through Puppies At the gamemaster’s discretion, moving through the puppy-covered area left behind the Canine Flood has the following complications. If you move more than 5 feet through the puppy-covered area in your turn, for each additional 5 feet moved there is a cumulative 20 percent chance you will harm 1d6 puppies. You may choose to ignore the difficult terrain restriction altogether and trample through the puppies. For every 5 feet you move through the puppy-covered area, you automatically harm 1d6 puppies. If you finish your movement inside the puppy-covered area, you must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone, harming an additional 1d6 puppies. Optional Rule: Karmic Puppies At the gamemaster’s discretion, the bag might punish those who seek to harm the puppies that reside in it with great misfortune. For every puppy you willingly harm or kill, you gain 1 Misfortune point. The gamemaster can spend 1 Misfortune point at any time to give your character disadvantage (or to cancel advantage) on a roll. The puppies you harm or kill must consider the bag their home for this effect to take place. Optional Rule: Canine Fate At the gamemaster’s discretion, the bag might punish those who seek to harm the puppies that reside in it by turning them into puppies. For every puppy you willingly harm or kill, there is a cumulative 1 percent chance that you are permanently transformed into an ordinary puppy. Your game statistics are replaced by the statistics of a Puppy (CR 0), but you retain your alignment, personality, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. Your gear melds into your new form and you can’t activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from it. Only a wish spell or divine intervention can reverse this transformation. The puppies you harm or kill must consider the bag their home for this effect to take place. Optional Rule: Dire Wolf Trouble At the gamemaster’s discretion, the bag might transform puppies into mighty celestial dire wolves to punish those who harmed them. Every puppy you willingly harm or kill immediately transforms into an adult Dire Wolf (CR 1) that attacks you. The Dire Wolf is celestial instead of beast and ascends to a different plane of existence when either you or it dies. The puppies you harm or kill must consider the bag their home for this effect to take place. Orelyn on Bag of Puppies Orelyn places a gloved hand on the bag as you reach for it. “Don’t be hasty now. Yes, I too would like to see a thousand young dogs play around, but is it the responsible thing to do?” She looks around and a faint smile crosses her lips. “Very well. This place is safe enough, and we won’t be disturbed. Let’s release them, but on the condition that you will be the one to put them back into the bag.” She hands the bag to you, but before she pulls her hands away, she adds: “Understand that people are weird, so if you end up taking this bag and the young dogs in it, please keep it away from those who would abuse it and make sure that no tricksters polymorphed into dogs try to sneak into the bag. It’s not a prudent thing to do…”

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: beast
- Source: custom
- Alignment: typically unaligned
- Expansion: 22471
- Challenge Rating: 0

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

