# Purple Dragon Wyrmling

**description**: Purple Dragon The existence of purple dragons is known only by a few on the surface world. But dwarves who dwell deep underneath mountains tell tales to their children to be wary not to venture deep into the Underdark, for a silent, shadowy killer stalks its many chasms and maze-like tunnels. Underdark Stalker. The purple dragon, not to be confused with the deep dragon, is native to the Underdark. It has a slender, serpentine neck and an armored, elongated head with a crest of swept-back sharp spikes. Its scales range from iridescent amethyst and deep purple to dark eggplant violet as it ages. Its sinewy, flexible body possesses powerful limbs and talon-tipped wings and moves like a hunting cat, which helps it navigate, squeeze through, and traverse the Underdark's endless narrow crevices and stalactite-filled caverns undetected with ease. Cunning Predator. The purple dragon enjoys the thrill of the hunt, just like gray dragons. Whereas gray dragons take down prey with fierce brutality, the purple dragon attacks with calculated efficiency, stalking its prey patiently for hours and striking before its target becomes aware of its presence. The purple dragon is so deathly quiet that it can pick off members of a dwarven patrol one by one without alerting the others. Its breath attack is a billowing cloud of psychotropic vapor that disrupts and impairs a creature's acuity and cognitive abilities. Clever Opportunist. A purple dragon is friendly toward drow and sees them as allies with many resources it can exploit. It hates dwarves, including duergar, because they craft armor out of its scales. It despises balhannoths, cloakers, deepspawns, and illithids because it sees them as competition for dominance in the Underdark. While a purple dragon generally avoids other dragons, it tolerates the company of a deep dragon, which it sees as an ally against illithids and a kindred spirit it can banter with. That doesn't mean a purple dragon will trust one, though. The purple dragon can eat almost anything edible, but it is very fond of giant specimens of cavefishes, crabs, crayfishes, as well as kuo-toans, chuuls, and aboleths. A Purple Dragon's Lair A purple dragon places its lair in a location close to drow communities it can trade and work with, underground lakes where it hunts prey, and enemy settlements it can raid and plunder. The purple dragon's lair is usually a hard-to-reach hollowed-out cavern full of stolen treasure and magical items that the dragon has amassed in its lifetime. It is typically guarded by minions the purple dragon has subjugated or partnered with, such as chitines, drow mercenaries, grimlocks, hook horrors, and maur giants. The challenge rating of a legendary purple dragon increases by 1 when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the dragon can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Stalactites fall from the ceiling, striking up to three creatures underneath that the dragon can see within 120 feet of it. The dragon makes one ranged attack roll (+7 to hit) against each target. On a hit, the target takes 10 (3d6) piercing damage. The dragon chooses a 10-foot-square area on the ground that it can see within 120 feet of it. The ground in that area turns into 3-foot-deep mud. Each creature on the ground in that area when the mud appears must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or sink into the mud and become restrained. A creature can take an action to attempt a DC 15 Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within its reach and ending the restrained condition on a success. Moving 1 foot in the mud costs 2 feet of movement. On initiative count 20 on the next round, the mud hardens, and the Strength DC to work free increases to 20. One creature the dragon can see within 120 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the dragon as if the dragon had cast dominate monster on it. The effect ends on initiative count 20 on the next round. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary purple dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Giant fungi form labyrinthine passages within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair. The giant fungi act as 10-foot-high, 10-foot-thick walls that block line of sight. Creatures can squeeze between the giant fungi, with every 1 foot a creature moves costing it 4 feet of movement. A creature in the giant fungi must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw once each round it’s in contact with the giant fungi or take 3 (1d6) poison damage from the toxic spores. Each 10-foot-cube of giant fungi has AC 5, 30 hit points, resistance to bludgeoning and piercing damage, vulnerability to fire damage, and immunity to psychic and thunder damage. Shadows cast by non-evil creatures within 6 miles of the dragon’s lair randomly animate and form nightmarish but harmless silhouettes, warning such creatures of the danger. Bats, centipedes, spiders, and other underground vermin within 1 mile of the dragon’s lair serve as the dragon’s eyes and ears. If the dragon dies, the vermin lose their supernatural link to it. The giant fungi remain, but within 1d10 days, they become mundane fungi and normal difficult terrain, losing their toxicity. Traits Stone Camouflage. The dragon has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the dragon has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) psychic damage. Psychic Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon exhales psychic energy in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 11 Intelligence saving throw. On failed save, a creature takes 13 (3d8) psychic damage, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and can’t take reactions, until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

