# Pygmy Rakshasa Kingpin

**description**: Pygmy Rakshasa Pygmy rakshasas are experts in middle management. Surrounding themselves with burly handlers, mad scientists, and any who might sell their soul for a chance at power, they answer only to their archdevil overlords. Weave Bender. While the pygmy rakshasa’s full-sized cousin enjoys a more robust blanket immunity to magic, the pygmy rakshasa forgoes some of this antimagic potency in order to cause chaos. Bending the weave, it can redirect magic, causing its foes to strike one another. Vindictive and Vicious. Like their cousins, pygmy rakshasa are evil spirits embroiled in mortal, feline flesh. If killed on the Material Plane, a pygmy rakshasa is sent back to the Hells in spirit form until it reforms. Upon its return, a pygmy rakshasa will stalk the land looking for the one who laid it low, or, if their quarry’s mortal form has expired, their kith and kin. Ninth Life. When a pygmy rakshasa is first killed, its disbelief and arrogance sustain it, causing it to rise again in a gruesome mummified form. Its furious, shrill screeching causes all but the hardiest foes to cover their ears in distress. Those that survive such an endeavour live in fear of the rakshasa’s inevitable return. Regional Effects The area within 6 miles of the pygmy rakshasa’s lair has the following unique properties: Hairweeds. Tumbleweeds made of cat hair abound wherever the wind takes them. Land on Your Feet. Creatures have a tendency to always land on their feet, gaining advantage on any ability checks or saving throws they make to prevent falling prone. Sunbeams. Sunbeams create particularly comfortable areas in which to stretch out and relax. When a creature starts a short rest in such an area, it must succeed on a VDC Wisdom saving throw or fall asleep for the rest’s duration. Regardless of the result, such a creature gains 1 additional hit point for each Hit Die it spends to recover hit points at the end of the rest. Unsafe Ledges. All shelves are unsafe; occasional wafts of magic cause any objects near the edge of a shelf, ledge, or overhang to be knocked off. Lair Actions While a pygmy rakshasa lives, it can invoke the ambient magic of its lair to take lair actions. The saving throw DCs and damage of the lair actions depend on the level at which you run the hunt. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam Weave Snap Damage 6th 13 5 (2d4) 2 (1d4) 13th 16 14 (4d6) 4 (1d8) 18th 18 28 (8d6) 7 (2d6) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the rakshasa takes one of the following lair actions; the rakshasa can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row. See the table above for the damage and save DC. Fish Guts. The internal viscera of thousands of fish pours down in a 10-foot-radius, 30-foot-high cylinder. Each creature in the area must succeed on a VDC Constitution saving throw or become poisoned until initiative count 20 on the next round. Until the fish are removed, the ground in the area is difficult terrain and a creature in this area has disadvantage on saving throws made to maintain its concentration. Swarm. The pygmy rakshasa targets one Large or smaller creature within its lair, causing a horde of Tiny beasts and fiends to swarm over it. The creature must make a VDC Strength saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes Vdam piercing damage and is restrained until initiative count 20 on the next round. Weave Snap. The pygmy rakshasa targets one creature within its lair that is attuned to a magic item or under the influence of a spell (GM’s discretion), and forces it to make a VDC Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes Vdam force damage for each magic item it is attuned to as well as for each level of spell currently affecting it. On a success, it takes half as much damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 17 (18,000 xp) or 21 (33,000 XP) if paired with Infernal Handler

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

