# Qar, Master of Jackals

**description**: Qar boarded the Priceless Pearl when the Riojan caravel docked in the port city of Kom-nefer in Khemhara. He served for many years as a warrior and sailor, until he and his shipmates battled powerful sorcerers aboard the Ainsurabaloc . Qar found himself alone and unarmed, facing a monk from Higara with tattoos of demonic jackals covering her skin. By a stroke of luck, Qar defeated the monk and unwittingly absorbed her power, title, and technique. Now Qar is the Master of Jackals. He left the service of the Priceless Pearl when they next docked in Capital, joining the District Watch. Using his ill-gotten abilities, he rose to the rank of captain. Following a particularly brutal encounter on the street, Qar was quoted in the broadsheets saying, “The smell and filth of the city are overwhelming.” This brought him to the attention of the Black Iron Pact, and Lord Deseo personally recruited him for the High Command. Qar takes special delight in unnecessary cruelty, and on the battlefield, he uses his mobility to kill unconscious foes where they lie before allies can heal them. Traits Exploit Opening ( 3 /Day). When Avalla makes an attack, she has advantage on the attack roll. Supernatural Resistance. Avalla has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. Actions Lightning Lash (Cantrip). Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) lightning damage, and Avalla can move the target up to 15 feet horizontally. Iron Terror ( 1 /Day; 4 th-Level Spell). Avalla projects a terrifying illusion of the High Command to each enemy in a 30-foot cone. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 21 (6d6) psychic damage and be frightened of each member of the High Command for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Iron Shackles ( 1 /Day; 3 rd-Level Spell; Concentration). Avalla conjures animated iron chains at a point she can see on the ground within 60 feet of her. The chains fill a 15-foot-square on the ground centered on that point and last for 1 minute. When a creature enters that area for the first time on a turn or starts their turn there, they must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained (save ends at start of turn). A creature restrained in this way takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage at the end of each of their turns. Iron Ring ( 2 /Day). If not in the Cyst, Avalla teleports to the Cyst. If in the Cyst, she teleports to a place she has visited. Reactions Escape Ring. When Avalla isn’t in the Cyst and an ally she can see within 60 feet of her drops to 0 hit points, she expends a use of Iron Ring and teleports herself to the Cyst along with each willing ally within 60 feet of her who isn’t incapacitated. Spellcasting Feedback. When a creature Avalla can see within 60 feet of her casts a spell, she taps into the caster’s mind and sabotages their magic. The creature can choose either to cast the spell then take 3 (1d6) psychic damage per level of the spell cast, or to let the spell fail. If the spell fails, the creature’s spell slot is expended with no effect and their action is wasted. Utility Spells In addition to any other spells in this stat block, Avalla can cast the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: light A , mage hand A , message A 3/day each: detect magic A , ma ge armor A 1/day each: detect thoughts A , disguise self A , sending A

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

