# Qazyldrath

**description**: Many wish to witness the day I swallow the sun with darkness, but none are as eager as vampires. They are more faithful to me than to their own sires, for I offer what even the gods deny—a world where vampires can move about freely. Qazyldrath Traits Amphibious. Qazyldrath can breathe air and water. Consume Shadow ( 3 /Day). When Qazyldrath fails a saving throw, they can succeed instead. When they do, any areas of magical darkness in the lair are dispelled, and they can’t use Enshroud or Thwart Healing until the end of their next turn. Shadow Strength. Acid and necrotic damage dealt by Qazyldrath ignore damage resistance. Actions Multiattack. Qazyldrath makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. If the target is a light source or is wearing or holding a light source, that light is extinguished. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage, and Qazyldrath can move the target up to 15 feet horizontally. Vacuous Breath (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Qazyldrath exhales dark energy in a line that is 90 feet long and 20 feet wide. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) acid damage plus 24 (7d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Additionally, that area is filled with magical darkness for 1 minute. A creature with darkvision can’t see through this darkness, and no light except a daylight spell or a light-creating spell of 5th level or higher can illuminate it. Bonus Actions Enshroud. Shadows cling to one creature Qazyldrath can see within 120 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be blinded and vulnerable to necrotic damage until the start of Qazyldrath’s next turn. Reactions Thwart Healing. When a creature within 60 feet of Qazyldrath regains hit points, Qazyldrath forces them to make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature regains half the number of hit points instead. Villain Actions Qazyldrath has three villain actions. They can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. They can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Burning Globs. Qazyldrath spits acid globules at each enemy they can see within 90 feet of them. Each target must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or have a globule attached to their body. A creature attached to a globule takes 14 (4d6) acid damage at the start of their turns. A creature can use an action to remove a globule from themself or a creature they can reach. Action 2 : Shadow Form. Qazyldrath becomes semi-incorporeal, gaining resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage until the end of their next turn. Qazyl­drath then teleports up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space that they can see. Action 3 : Sinking Gloom. Qazyldrath summons sticky black acid centered on a point they can see on the ground within 120 feet of them, creating a 5-foot-deep, 20-foot-radius pool. The pool is difficult terrain and lasts for 1 minute. An enemy who starts their turn in the pool takes 24 (7d6) acid damage and must succeed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or be restrained until the start of their next turn. An enemy who starts their turn flying within 30 feet of the pool must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be pulled down by living acid, landing in the nearest unoccupied space of their choice within the pool, take 24 (7d6) acid damage, and be restrained until the start of their next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

