# Qi-Velexis

**description**: TRAITS Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the mad wizard fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The mad wizard has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Special Equipment. The mad wizard wears a torn robe of the archmagi (only has the armor class benefit) ACTIONS Multiattack. The mad wizard makes two Arcane Burst attacks. Arcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., or range 120 ft., one target. Hit : 21 (3d10 + 5) force damage. Rend Reality. A target of the mad wizard’s choice within 60 feet that she can see must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 22 (4d10) psychic damage, and must roll a d4 for a secondary effect: Chain. Three additional foes within 30 feet of the target must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or take 18 (4d8) lightning damage. Blast. All creatures within 30 feet of the target must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or take 18 (4d8) fire damage. Healing. The target instantly recovers hit points equal to twice the amount of the psychic damage dealt. Teleport. The target is teleported to an unoccupied space within 120 feet. On a successful saving throw, the target takes half the damage, and no secondary effect occurs. Spellcasting. The mad wizard casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: mage hand, message, prestidigitation 3/day each: counterspell, confusion, dispel magic, mage armor 1/day each: teleport, fireball, lightning bolt REACTIONS Shield of Delusion. When the mad wizard is hit by a ranged attack or targeted by a spell that causes damage, her loose grip on reality protects her. As a reaction, if she successfully saves against the spell, she reduces the damage to 0, and chooses an ally within 30 feet (usually Vellyx). That ally regains a number of hit points equal to half of the negated damage. LEGENDARY ACTIONS The mad wizard can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The mad wizard regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Cast a Spell. The mad wizard uses Spellcasting. Chaos Magic. The mad wizard uses Rend Reality. Arcane Regeneration (Costs 2 Actions). The mad wizard regains a used Spellcasting slot. Laugh With Me (Costs 2 Actions). The mad wizard cackles insanely, and her laughter is infectious. Every creature within 120 feet must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is overcome with laughter, falls prone, and becomes incapacitated. At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw, ending the effect on a success. Command the Fortress (Costs Variable Actions). The mad wizard can use one action to awaken the fortress, order it to move 5 feet, or grab a pilgrim within range (if it has reached the edge of the canyon). Using two actions, she can order it to move 10 feet or grab two pilgrims within range. Using three actions, she can order it move 15 feet or grab three pilgrims within range.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (mutated human)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 25756
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tales from the Wastes

