# Qomok

**description**: The remote reaches of the universe are home to bizarre phenomena and horrific alien life forms beyond normal comprehension, most of which pale in comparison to the unspeakable and utterly alien horror epitomized by the qomok. Known by many names throughout the universe, but most often as “Things,” qomoks are shape-shifting parasitic organisms with the ability to absorb, assimilate, and then perfectly mimic the bodies of other living creatures. A qomok’s original form resembles a fleshy mass of oozing viscera, covered with rope-like tendrils and undulating sucker-mouths that slithers and shambles with surprising agility. However, most qomoks haven’t assumed this shape since the first qomok left its distant homeworld billions of years ago, for the creatures are driven by an irresistible drive to absorb and assume their victims’ forms. Extremely paranoid, and with an unrivaled instinct for self-preservation and survival, qomoks prefer to attack lone targets so they do not needlessly endanger themselves. When attacking, a qomok shifts its body asunder in a spectacle of gore and violence, generating various extremities and toothy maws, in an attempt to surprise its prey. It then ensnares its victim with its feeding tendril so it can be absorbed and assimilated. When a qomok’s true nature is exposed, the creature will react depending on its current size, health, and the nature of the threat. Smaller spawn of a qomok will usually attempt to flee, whereas a full-sized and healthy qomok will often attack multiple creatures head on in an attempt to quickly overwhelm and neutralize them. However, true to its self-preserving nature, a qomok will almost always prefer to flee if its cover is not completely lost. Primordial Origins. Qomoks originated on a tiny, swamp-covered moon orbiting a gas giant world in a remote corner of the universe. They began as microscopic clusters of semi-sentient cells that took a bizarre turn on the evolutionary path and developed the ability to assimilate and mimic other organic cells. After a few billion years, the qomoks grew prodigiously and became the dominant species on their homeworld. The immortal qomoks then spent eons slithering about their muddy little world, occasionally absorbing and assimilating one another. Though highly intelligent, these qomoks were unfathomably savage; they formed no society, no religion, and were content to focus their attentions on the swampy surface of their world, remaining completely unaware of the stars above and any worlds beyond their own. That changed when an elder thing explorer happened upon the qomok homeworld. Having visited scores of inhabited worlds in its own long lifetime, the elder thing immediately recognized the qomoks’ physical resemblance to the bio-engineered shoggoths—a powerful slave race created by the elder things. Insatiably curious, the elder thing began a long-term study of the qomoks with the goal of eventually collecting a live specimen and weaponizing it. Unfortunately for the elder thing, and for many future denizens of the universe, this ill-planned scheme was a disaster. One day, after several years of safely studying the qomoks from the air, the elder thing landed on an outcropping of rock that was too close to one of the creatures. The qomok ensnared the elder thing with its feeding tendril and swiftly absorbed and assimilated the over-matched explorer. In that instant, as the qomok absorbed the elder thing’s body and mind, its own consciousness expanded a millionfold. The qomok’s thoughts flooded with the memories, knowledge, and experiences of the elder thing, and it suddenly became cognizant of the existence of other living creatures and other worlds. Led by an insatiable drive to assimilate other life forms, the qomok assumed the elder thing’s winged form and immediately launched itself into the sky. Mimicking the elder thing’s ability to travel between the stars, the qomok hurled itself through interstellar space and slipped into hibernation. Eventually, untold eons later, the sleeping qomok fell to the surface of an inhabited world. Since that time, this single qomok has seeded its kind on many worlds as it slowly and inexorably spreads its race across the universe. Vital Instincts. A qomok has only assimilation and self-preservation in mind. It will selfishly save itself or even attack other qomoks or other copies of itself in order to avert attention and suspicion. A qomok’s level of intelligence is determined by its size. Larger qomoks are extremely intelligent; it is theorized that full-sized qomoks have the combined intellects of all the organisms they have ever assimilated. Smaller copies are much less intelligent, and often show little creativity or goals other than survival. Qomoks have little regard for other life, seeing living creatures merely as prey and conveniences by which they can gain newer, more versatile forms. They care nothing for emotions, and have no need for personal relationships, religion, or mercy. Due to their intense paranoia and overriding instinct for self-preservation, as well as their callous indifference for “lesser” life forms, qomoks rarely communicate with sentient prey. When they do converse, they do so only to maintain their cover, avert attention away from themselves, or confuse their prey. Qomoks have only slightly more regard for their own kind, including their own infection-spawned offspring. Although they will cooperate with one another when they share a common enemy or goal, qomoks only do so if the association serves their personal need for assimilation and survival. Nonmagical. Though highly intelligent and able to use most technology and magic items, qomoks are not adept at spellcasting. Whether due to their alien physiology or some other psychological barrier, qomoks cannot cast spells or mimic the magical abilities of other beings. While their natural forms are decidedly alien, they can spontaneously generate limbs and other body parts that allow them to use tools and magical items as easily as a humanoid. Though they are able to wield weapons with as much skill as an assimilated creature, qomoks prefer to use their natural weapons in combat. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.MsoBodyTextIndent, li.MsoBodyTextIndent, div.MsoBodyTextIndent {mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-link:"Body Text Indent Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:6.0pt; margin-left:18.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.BodyTextIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Text Indent Char"; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Text Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: aberration (shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

