# Queborrin

**description**: Distant kin of the much-feared and more common intellect devourer, the queborrin are an alien parasitic race that thrives on finding a powerful host to dwell within and enjoy. The queborrin are voyeurs; seeking to enjoy positions of power to enable other queborrin to thrive. A queborrin resembles a revolting long green worm with distended legs, it has cluster eyes and is covered in fine hairs that, when attached to the host’s spine, grow and infuse within the skeleton of the host to prevent removal. Its sphincterous mouth is designed for swift burrowing and has a circular row of razor teeth. Queborrin speak their own language; a revolting series of screeches and high-pitched whistles that can be pitched so high that they pass the hearing of most humanoids. In this way, queborrin are able to communicate with each other even in the most dangerous of circumstances and do so secretly. Dominating Parasite. Queborrin usually enter a host by dominating them and then erasing the memory of its ever entering them. In this way, queborrin can slyly enter a populace raising very few suspicions; and those who do spot such intruders are quickly dealt with by dominated infested hosts. In this way, queborrin can quickly take over entire communities, and have taken over entire worlds in this way—spreading like a vast wave of parasitic misery across an entire population and creating a place of order and safety for the queborrin to infest other worlds. Spellscorned. Queborrin grant a boon of spell resistance to their hosts; something they carefully veil using suggestion spells if ever the need arises—most hosts put the lack of spells affecting them down to simple destiny—an assumption the queborrin planted there in the first place. Hive-Minded. Some queborrin are able—through a quirk as yet understood even by the race themselves—to communicate across vast distances; even between planes of existence. These hive-minded queborrin have a shared link with several others that enables those creatures to speak and listen and see everything that goes on between the hive group. The hive-minded queborrin are often feared by their own kind, who hunt them out as aberrations within aberrations. This forces some groups of hive-minded to operate covertly and form even more paranoid groups than standard queborrin. Metal Clad. Some queborrin have developed—or rather created—metal skins to work from, preferring to shed mortal flesh to enable a form of immortality. These creatures view other queborrin who dwell in flesh as unclean; racially inferior creatures that are above all other foes who must be sought out and slain. The metal skins they develop are only limited by the present technology of the places they inhabit—places they generally soon overpower and destroy. Metal-clad queborrin have developed complex alchemical methods of reproduction, sometimes on an industrial scale. These queborrin are greatly feared by standard queborrin who reciprocate their race hatred. They operate on a strict hierarchical scale to ensure racial purity drives the queborrin—not personal greed or desire. The leaders of the metal-clad dwell within vast complex machines, and all metal-clad queborrin ensure they have weaponry—knowing their own flesh is weak. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:"Body Copy Indent"; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopyIndent, li.BodyCopyIndent, div.BodyCopyIndent {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent Char"; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.BodyCopyIndentChar {mso-style-name:"Body Copy Indent Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Body Copy Indent"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

