# Queen of Scorpions

**description**: The unearthly beauty of this woman is marred by her sinister eyes and the large scorpion tail rising up behind her head. Exiled Lord. Known as Chelamma by the nearby locals, the Queen of Scorpions was once a powerful member of the animal lords, until her appetites for blood and murder led to her exile. This punishment is an affront to her pride, and she plots revenge against the other animal lords and anyone they hold dear. Mistress of Poison. The Queen of Scorpions resides in an ancient desert temple carved in the side of a stone cliff. The temple is a complex network of canyons filled with scorpions, spiders, and shrouded cultists. Assassin’s guilds, thieves’ dens, and other underworld organizations rely on the Queen of Scorpions for the deadliest poisons and most potent acids. She operates her shipments of poisons via her shrouded cultists and a network of go-betweens. Only a select few of her customers are aware of the true identity of their supplier. Murderer of Monarchs. The long exile imposed on the Queen of Scorpions turned her lust for murder into a dangerous addiction. She delights in seducing nobles, kings, and queens with promises of power or magic and slowly poisoning them to watch her prey wither to death. Her delight often gets the better of her as she lingers over a dying person just a little too long, leaving her dangerously close to being caught. The other animal lords believe it is only a matter of time before her luck runs out. Regional Effects The presence of the Queen of Scorpions warps the region containing her temple, which creates one or more of the following effects: * The area within 5 miles of the temple attracts spiders and scorpions of all sizes. The Queen of Scorpions can choose to see or hear through the senses of any arachnid in this area and can speak through it while doing so. * Arachnids within 5 miles of the Queen of Scorpions’ temple have advantage on all Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide. * The Queen of Scorpions leaves no physical evidence of her passage when within 1 mile of her temple unless she wishes to. In addition, creatures and plants native to her domain don’t cause her harm or cost her extra movement when she moves through the area. If the Queen of Scorpions dies, these effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Animal Lords While humanoids have vast pantheons and divine figures of every stripe, the animals of the world have much simpler forms of faith. Among each species there is always one paragon that embodies the animal spirit in a humanoid form, the better to speak to others and represent the animals in celestial councils. The animal lords first appear in the Creature Codex. Two additional animal lords are presented here: the Queen of Scorpions, an exiled animal lord who manipulates the mortal world through a complex network of thieves and spies from her desert home, and the Toad King , a burgeoning animal lord who seeks apotheosis by sending brave heroes on complex quests.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

