# Radiant Lord

**description**: Poised in thoughtful contemplation is an androgynous, elfin figure holding an intricately wrought spyglass. White-gold curls fall to their shoulders, and their brow is encircled by motes of light that glow like stars. Their outfit is a crisp white suit but overlayed with a sash colored with the pink and orange ombré of a painted sky ready to greet the rising sun. The honorably appointed Radiant Chancellor Ectius, ambassador to the stars, is a steadfast advisor to the Court of One Million Stars. The Radiant Chancellor has served the court since its inception, long before the ruling Prince Valendan ascended to rulership. While it is strange that such an ancient and capable fey would acquiesce to the dominion of another, anyone who meets Ectius immediately understands where their true ambition lies. Traits Pursuit of Knowledge. Ectius is obsessed with the beauty and radiant power given to stars. Over the thousands of years they have existed, Ectius has sacrificed material pleasures, social status, and personal identity to pursue ultimate cosmic knowledge. The chancellor's efforts have been rewarded, for they have learned hundreds of true names for the stars that hang in the heavens. With the acquisition of each name, Ectius grows in power, for to know a star's true name is to have dominion over them. For now, the Radiant Chancellor is content to serve and advise the members of the royal court. Cloak of Dawn. When a creature that can see the radiant lord starts its turn within 60 feet of them, the radiant lord can force it to make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw if the radiant lord isn't incapacitated and can see the creature. If the saving throw fails, the creature is stunned until the beginning of its next turn. Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can't see the radiant lord until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks at the radiant lord in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the radiant lord fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Lord of Light. Whenever the radiant lord deals damage, they can choose to change the damage type to radiant. Additionally, creatures that would normally be immune to radiant damage are only resistant to radiant damage dealt by the radiant lord. Magic Resistance. The radiant lord has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The radiant lord makes two Starmetal Saber attacks or one Starmetal Saber attack and one Spellcasting attack. Starmetal Saber. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d8 + 2) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) radiant damage. This is a magical weapon that counts as cold iron for the purpose of overcoming damage resistance. Comet Shot. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (5d10) radiant damage, and the target begins to glow with starlight. The radiant lord has advantage on the next attack roll made against a glowing target. Dazzling Presence. Each creature of the radiant lord's choice that is within 120 feet of the radiant lord and aware of them must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or become blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the radiant lord's Dazzling Presence for the next 24 hours. Meteor Shower (Recharge 5-6). Falling stars hit the ground in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point the radiant lord can see within 300 feet. Each creature in the cylinder must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) bludgeoning damage and 35 (10d6) radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The radiant lord casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: daylight , faerie fire , thaumaturgy 3/day each: enthrall , fireball , sunbeam 1/day each: sunburst Legendary Actions Ectius can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Ectius regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn: Saber. Ectius makes a Starmetal Saber attack. Burn Away (2 actions). Ectius ends one spell, magical effect, or condition currently affecting them. Name the Stars (3 actions). Ectius invokes the true name of a star and summons a portion of its power. The star appears in an unoccupied space Ectius can see. The star is a 20-foot-radius sphere. When the star appears, each creature (other than Ectius) within its area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature trying to move while within the star must make a successful DC 19 Strength (Athletics) check to escape its gravitational pull. If it fails the check, it can't move. The star disappears on the next initiative count of 20. Radiant Lord's Lair Ectius dwells in a magnificent observatory built among the spires of the Starry Court. It is here that the radiant lord conducts never-ending research to discover the true name of each star in the heavens. The observatory is a beautiful structure forged from glass and gold, infused with Ectius's power. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Ectius takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects. Ectius can't use the same effect 2 rounds in a row: Searing starlight rains down from the ceiling within the lair. Each creature of Ectius's choice within the lair takes radiant damage equal to its own Constitution score. The entirety of the lair is illuminated in sunlight. It reverts to normal light at the beginning of next initiative count 20. The ambient temperature of the lair rises drastically. All creatures in the lair who aren't immune to fire damage must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

