# Radiant Watcher

**description**: Martyr Tulio, hailed as the 'Radiant Watcher,' was a hunter of incomparable resolve, waging a ceaseless battle for the safety of his people, aided by the ethereal luminance of his blade. However, this sword concealed a monstrous sentience within, which would gradually gnaw away at Tulio's psyche, leading him away from the radiance of his path. Light’s End. One fateful night, when the Creeping Tarlight arose, the glow of Tulio’s blade was extinguished for good, swallowed by madness. Tulio was reborn, a servant to his now forever darkened weapon. He who had always preached salvation, now saw his own vanish. Dark Radiance. While there are accounts by witnesses observing his emergence from the tar, it is speculated that, in the throes of his madness, a vestige of his once righteous spirit pierced through. Driven by this last shred of his humanity, Tulio disappeared to a place where he would not inflict pain upon those he held dear. Another conjecture is that he may have maintained more of his former self than was first thought, permitting the illusion of benevolence to dissolve once he had accumulated the power he sought, and he has now retreated to scheme grander plans. The truth remains unclear. However, whispers of his actions—both valorous and terrible—still echo through the city. Many of the good deeds this man did were unpunished, and many still owe him their life. Some claim to have seen a dark figure on the fringes of the city, a specter wreathed in the same tar that once consumed the Radiant Watcher. I believe these are just fanciful tales of those who wish to keep the memory of Tulio alive. Traits Cosmic Constitution. The Watcher sheds bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for another 15 feet. It can choose to turn this light on or off at any time while it isn’t incapacitated (no action required). In addition, whenever a creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the Watcher, the creature must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be pulled 30 feet toward the Watcher. Onyx Flight. When the Watcher is flying up to 15 feet above the ground, it coats the ground beneath it in a thick layer of tar. Each creature except the Watcher that moves into an area coated in this tar must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or become tar-coated. A tar-coated creature's speed is halved. Whenever a tar-coated creature takes fire or radiant damage, it explodes and the tar vanishes; each creature within 10 feet of the creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 17 (5d6) fire damage. The tar-coated creature has disadvantage on the saving throw. Spatial Rend. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the Watcher hits with it (included in the attack). Special Equipment. The Watcher has a sword of the radiant watcher , which is permanently in its Shadow Form. The Watcher can’t be disarmed of it while it is conscious. Spellcasting. The Watcher’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20). The Watcher can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: light, message, thaumaturgy 2/day each: graviturgic smite, gravity storm, radiant slaughter 1/day: starfall Actions Multiattack. The Watcher uses its Starsky Presence, then makes three attacks. Sword of the Radiant Watcher. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage, or 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. Cosmic Bolt. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) radiant damage. Supernova (Recharge 6). Focusing its entire strength on one star from its body, the Watcher forms a supernova from within. Each creature within 60 feet of the Watcher must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 42 (12d6) radiant damage and is blinded for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded. A blinded creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Starsky Presence. The Watcher forces those around it to gaze into the void of the cosmos and realize their meaninglessness. Each creature of the Watcher's choice that is within 120 feet of the Watcher and aware of it must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or gain a long-term madness for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature gains one short-term madness and is otherwise immune to the Watcher's Starsky Presence for the next 24 hours. Bonus actions Star Drop. The Watcher deals 2 (1d4) radiant damage to a creature that it can see within 120 feet of it. Reactions Tar Slew. When the Watcher is hit by an attack, it can explode in a wave of tar. Each creature within 10 feet of it must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or become tar-coated per the Watcher’s Onyx Flight trait. Legendary Actions The Watcher can take 1 legendary action, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The Watcher regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Fly. The Watcher flies up to its speed. Strike. The Watcher makes one attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: humanoid and aberration
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

