# Rak Tulkhesh

**description**: Overlords In the first days of the world, the children of Khyber rose from the darkness to reign over Eberron. The greatest among them were the overlords, who held dominion over a world of fear, war, and death until the children of Eberron and Siberys rose up against them. Armies of dragons fought against the fiends of Khyber. And though the overlords couldn’t be destroyed, the couatl sacrificed their lives to build a prison of celestial light: a silver flame that bound the overlords in Khyber once more. These bonds have held for countless generations, but the overlords still yearn to break free and reclaim the world above. As long as the overlords are bound by the Silver Flame, they can’t physically manifest in the world. But each overlord embodies a particular aspect of evil, which grows in strength as their servants—the fiends known as the Lords of Dust—scheme to unleash their ancient masters. The overlords gain strength when mortals embrace the dark paths laid down for them. And as they grow stronger, they gain more influence. Some thirty overlords are bound in Khyber. Two are described here: Rak Tulkhesh and Sul Khatesh, both of whom remain imprisoned and can’t take physical form. The stat blocks provided here reflect the powers they would wield if they were ever unleashed upon the world. Immortal Nature. An overlord doesn’t require air, food, drink or sleep. It also can’t die permanently. Upon its death, it reforms elsewhere in the multiverse and becomes active again at a time set by the DM. Rak Tulkhesh Called the Rage of War, Rak Tulkhesh is the incarnation of impulses that drives many mortals to battle. Fear, greed, hatred—these are seeds that the Rage of War sows in the hopes of producing a bloody harvest. Rak Tulkhesh typically takes the form of a vaguely draconic creature twisted by demonic rage. Covered in iron spikes protruding from his bleeding flesh, this overlord looms fifteen feet high at the shoulders, and his wings span over forty feet. While in combat, Rak Tulkhesh roars in rage as new weapons are spawned from his body, called forth by the Rage of War to slaughter all who dare stand before him. Khyber Shards. Rak Tulkhesh’s soul is divided among a group of Khyber shards spread through the underworld and is confined to those shards by the light of the Silver Flame. While shattered and bound, the Rage of War can’t bring his full power to bear on the world. But he can influence events in the vicinity of any of his shards, drawing power from acts of violence. The Last War was a boon that allowed Rak Tulkhesh to darken the hearts of soldiers and civilians alike, whose actions then weakened the overlord’s bonds to give him even greater sway over the regions surrounding his shards. The violence seen in Thaliost and other occupied cities, the hatred against warforged and Cyran refugees, the calls for a return to war—all these things bear the mark of Rak Tulkhesh’s malign influence. Minions of Rak Tulkhesh. Any organization that fosters hatred unwittingly serves Rak Tulkhesh, and countless soldiers in the Five Nations are devoted to the Rage of War. Many of the Carrion Tribes of the Demon Wastes likewise serve Rak Tulkhesh and yearn to carry his bloody banner into the soft lands of the south. The minotaurs of Droaam revere Rak Tulkhesh as the Horned Prince. But the most powerful of the overlord’s follower’s is the rakshasa Mordakhesh the Shadowsword—Rak Tulkhesh’s exarch among the Lords of Dust, who commands a host of fiends exerting the overlord’s will across Khorvaire.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 4480
- Challenge Rating: 28

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Eberron - Rising from the Last War

