# Rakdos

**description**: Rakdos, the demon for whom his cult is named, embodies hedonism. He is also the consummate entertainer, whose mere appearance is an act of grisly performance art. A monstrous figure standing thirty feet tall, spreading enormous wings, crowned with fire and swinging a flaming scythe, Rakdos demands the spotlight. His every entrance is a showstopper. Sometimes after his grand entrance, Rakdos crouches to witness the performances of those who adore him. To them, his opinion is the only one that matters, but he is a demanding spectator. He has seen thousands of years of circus tricks and has no patience for performers who don’t give their all. His flaming scythe has brought more than one tepid show to a sudden and spectacular close. Jaded as he is, Rakdos attends his cult’s performances only rarely. He often retreats into his lair below the cult’s guildhall for months or years at a time, but his followers know that he might emerge at any time to witness the latest spectacle. Rakdos’s Traits Ideal: “Everyone should pursue their greatest desire.” Bond: “If you want my favor, show me a performance I’ve never seen before.” Flaw: “What is joy?” Traits Captivating Presence. Any creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of Rakdos must make a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed by Rakdos for 1 minute or until the creature is farther than 30 feet away from him. On a successful save, the creature becomes immune to Rakdos’s Captivating Presence for 24 hours. Cruel Entertainment. When a creature Rakdos can see within 60 feet of him is reduced to 0 hit points, Rakdos gains 25 temporary hit points. Innate Spellcasting. Rakdos’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 25). He can innately cast hellish rebuke (at 5th level) at will, requiring no material components. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Rakdos fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Rakdos has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. Rakdos’s weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. Rakdos makes two attacks with his Curtain-Call Scythe or his claws. Curtain-Call Scythe. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (3d10 + 8) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) fire damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) slashing damage. Legendary Actions Rakdos can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Rakdos regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Sadistic Revelry. Each creature within 60 feet of Rakdos that is his ally or is charmed by him must use its reaction to move up to half its speed toward the creature closest to it that it can see, provided it isn’t already within 5 feet of that creature. It then must make one melee attack against that creature if it is able to do so. Scythe (Costs 2 Actions). Rakdos uses Curtain-Call Scythe. Touch of Pain (Costs 3 Actions). Rakdos makes a claw attack against one creature within 10 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the creature can’t maintain concentration on a spell or any other effect that requires concentration. The poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 7
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Guildmasters' Guide to Ravnica

