# Rakitten

**description**: No. Catz. In. Ze. Laboratory. Understood!? The last one destroyed mein whole collection ov snowglobes from ze Outer Planes. It didn’t even get up from infront ov ze fireplace; it just used its stupid magical paw! — Humperdink, Snowglobeless Type : Fiend Creature Component : Any rakshasa Bonus Tamer Improvement : Cat’s Curse and +2 Hit Dice We’ve all heard of a bull in a porcelain shop, but a rakitten is much worse. They can’t help but knock off anything close to an edge, especially if it looks delicate and valuable. Fortunately, they make up for this irritating, fiendish behaviour with an ability to control spellcasters, redirecting their spells and cursing them with antimagic properties. If any of the rakitten’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the rakitten’s save DC , as calculated as follows: Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the rakitten’s Charisma modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the rakitten the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Cat’s Curse Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Active (bonus action) When the rakitten hits a creature with a claw attack on its turn, it can use a bonus action to attempt to afflict the creature with the cat’s curse for 1 minute . The creature must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be unable to benefit from spells of a level lower than the tamer’s proficiency bonus. A creature affected by this curse can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. After the rakitten has used this action, it can’t do so again for 1 minute . The rakitten gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Growth I Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The rakitten’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its claw attack increases to a d6 . Limited Antimagic Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The rakitten can’t be affected or detected by spells of 1st level or lower unless it wishes to be. When the rakitten’s tamer reaches 9th, 13th, and 17th level in the tamer class, the level of spell against which the rakitten can’t be affected or detected increases to 2nd, 3rd, and 5th level, respectively. Rakish Resilience Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The rakitten gains a bonus to its AC equal to its Charisma modifier while it isn’t wearing armour. Multiattack Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the rakitten can make two claw attacks. Weavebender Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (reaction) As a reaction when a ranged spell attack or a spell with an area of effect centred on a point targets a creature or point within 30 feet of the rakitten, the rakitten can redirect the spell. It can cause a ranged spell attack to target a different creature within 10 feet of the original target (after the attack roll is made but before the outcome is determined), or it can move the area of effect’s point of origin up to 10 feet in any direction. The rakitten can use this reaction a number of times equal to its Charisma modifier. It regains all expended uses when its tamer finishes a long rest. Growth II Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer, Growth I Type : Passive (companion) The rakitten’s size increases to Medium, its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its claw attack increases from a d6 to a d8 . Wind Strike Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Active (no action) For the next minute , the rakitten can use a bonus action to teleport up to 30 feet to a space it can see. If it makes a claw attack immediately after teleporting and the attack hits, the target takes additional force damage equal to the rakitten’s Charisma modifier (minimum 1). After the rakitten uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Devil’s Purr Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the rakitten lets out a low, thrumming purr. Each creature of the rakitten’s choice within 30 feet of it that can hear it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the rakitten until the end of the rakitten’s next turn. A creature charmed in this way regards the rakitten as its own offspring, acting protectively towards it. After the rakitten uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Growth III Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer, Growth II Type : Passive (companion) The rakitten size increases to Large, its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its claw attack increases from a d8 to a d10 .

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

