# Rakshasa Maharajah

**description**: The rakshasa maharajah is an ancient and powerful fiend that sees itself as the ultimate overlord and brilliant mastermind of any organization, the grand manipulator and genius schemer that nobody is aware of. Even those that work directly with the rakshasa maharajah may not know of its true nature. Agent of Asmodeus. For important campaigns into the material plane where a more subtle and indirect approach is required, the archdevil Asmodeus sends a rakshasa maharajah to organize and lead it. In such missions, the rakshasa maharajah will usually be accompanied by dozens of minor devils and a handful of powerful ones such as bone devils, erinyes, and horned devils, as well as other rakshasas. Master of Misdirection. In combat, the rakshasa maharajah can be a difficult creature to face, with its array of abilities and spells that can confuse, mislead, and bend a foe's will to do its bidding. Its mere touch can drive a creature senseless. Traits Aura of Misdirection. Whenever a creature that is within 30 feet of the rakshasa targets the rakshasa with an attack or harmful spell, it must succeed on a DC 19 Intelligence saving throw, unless the rakshasa is incapacitated. On a failed save, the affected creature regards every creature it can see, other than the rakshasa, as enemies until the start of its next turn. It then chooses another target at random from among the enemies it can see within range of the attack, spell, or other ability it's using. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the rakshasa's Aura of Misdirection for the next 24 hours. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the rakshasa fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Limited Magic Immunity. The rakshasa can’t be affected or detected by spells of 6th level or lower unless it wishes to be. It has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The rakshasa makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) psychic damage, and the target's Intelligence score is reduced by 1d6. The target is stunned if this reduces its Intelligence to 0. Otherwise, the reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest or if a Greater Restoration or similar spell is cast on it. Spellcasting. The rakshasa casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks): At will: detect thoughts, disguise self, mage hand, minor illusion, mind sliver (4d6) 3/day each: blur, charm person, detect magic, dissonant whispers, fly, invisibility, major image, mirror image, suggestion 1/day each: dominate person, mislead, plane shift, psychic scream, synaptic static, true seeing, weird Word of Discord (Recharge 5–6). Each creature within 60 feet of the rakshasa and can hear the rakshasa must succeed on a DC 19 Charisma saving throw, or take 41 (8d8 + 5) psychic damage and must use its reaction to make a melee weapon attack against one creature of the rakshasa's choice that the rakshasa can see. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Legendary Actions The rakshasa can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The rakshasa regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The rakshasa makes a Claw attack. Move. The rakshasa moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The rakshasa uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

