# Rakshasa Naztharune

**description**: Appearing as an ebony-furred tiger, the naztharune are agile and stealthy warriors that specialize in the art of killing. Unlike the typical rakshasa that prefers to work behind the scenes, the naztharune gets its hands, or paws, dirty. Arcane Assassins. They may not have the same level of arcane ability as their brethren, but they hardly need it as they are almost invisible when they operate. Masters of stealth that can wink in and out of the darkness, the naztharune is a perfect assassin. Its mark almost always never sees it coming until it is too late. Traits Assassinate. During its first turn, the rakshasa has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn. Any hit the rakshasa scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit. Evasion. If the rakshasa is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the rakshasa instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Limited Magic Immunity. The rakshasa can’t be affected or detected by spells of 6th level or lower unless it wishes to be. It has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The rakshasa deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the rakshasa that isn't incapacitated and the rakshasa doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Multiattack. The rakshasa makes two melee attacks or two ranged attacks. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage, and the target is cursed if it is a creature. The magical curse takes effect whenever the target takes a short or long rest, filling the target's thoughts with horrible images and dreams. The cursed target gains no benefit from finishing a short or long rest. The curse lasts until it is lifted by a remove curse spell or similar magic. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one creature. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The rakshasa casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks): At will: detect thoughts, disguise self, mage hand 3/day each: darkness, detect magic, invisibility Bonus Actions Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the rakshasa takes the Hide action. Shadow Step. While in dim light or darkness, the rakshasa teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. It then has advantage on the first melee attack it makes before the end of the turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

