# Rakshasa, Greater

**description**: This fiendish mastermind appears as a sleek, white tiger-headed humanoid with bright blue eyes, striking markings and impressive whiskers. Dressed in fine silk robes woven with golden patterns, he lounges indolently on a low seat, smoking a hookah held in his backward paw. Greater rakshasas are more powerful cousins of standard rakshasas. When a truly wicked rakshasa is reincarnated after several lifetimes of treachery and depravity, it will return to the Material Plane from the Hells as a member of a higher caste. Master Manipulators. Greater rakshasas are driven by a lust for power, keeping their true natures hidden as they maneuver themselves into the highest echelons of society. Some rule duchies, baronies, or even whole kingdoms, while others are content to be the power behind the throne, pulling the strings as the king's vizier or first minister. No scheme is ever too complicated for them, and they are willing to employ a variety of techniques to achieve their aims, including eloquence, deception, bribery, blackmail, and intimidation. Greater rakshasas are adept at assuming multiple identities to carry out their plots, sometimes whispering in the same person's ear from different guises to sway them. Wickedly Decadent. A greater rakshasa seeks to live a life of luxury and vice. Like its lesser cousin, it takes pleasure in toying with mortals as it carries out its evil schemes, manipulating and corrupting foolish creatures, then feeding on their flesh when tiring of them. A greater rakshasa usually has several rakshasas in its service, as well as a number of charmed humanoid guards and retainers. Although it is a capable melee fighter, a greater rakshasa considers hand-to-hand combat beneath it, preferring to use magical domination and fear whenever possible. A Greater Rakshasa's Lair Greater rakshasas make their lairs in opulent mansions and palaces adorned with exquisite and valuable objects of gold and ivory and decorated with precious stones and draperies of the finest silk. They enjoy paintings and other works of art depicting their victories over foes, and they usually have a trophy room filled with skulls and other mementos taken from their enemies. Their lairs are guarded by rakshasas and charmed humanoids and warded with deadly traps hidden behind cunning illusions. A greater rakshasa encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the greater rakshasa can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the rakshasa can't use the same effect two rounds in a row: A sweetly scented invisible vapor fills the halls of the lair. Each humanoid creature in the lair must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on saving throws against enchantment spells until initiative count 20 on the next round. A psychedelic, twisting pattern of colored shapes appears in the air at a point the greater rakshasa can see within 120 feet of it. Each creature, other than the greater rakshasa, that can see the pattern must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become incapacitated with a speed of 0 until initiative count 20 on the next round. Four quasi-real Medium swarms of burning monkeys (use swarm of rats statistics) appear in spaces that the greater rakshasa can see within 60 feet; these spaces can be occupied. The monkeys act immediately. A creature starting its turn in a space occupied by burning monkeys takes 3 (1d6) fire damage and must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become confused. This works like the confusion spell, except it only lasts 1 round. The burning monkeys disappear on initiative count 20 on the next round. Regional Effects The region containing a greater rakshasa's lair is warped by the fiend's magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: A creature hostile to the greater rakshasa can't recover from exhaustion after a long rest while within 1 mile of the rakshasa's lair as its sleep is haunted by strange dreams. The greater rakshasa cloaks the traps protecting its lair with clever illusions. Wisdom (Perception) checks to detect traps within the lair are made with disadvantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 13
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

