# Ramius

**description**: Ramius Dangremond is the commander of the Hellriders of Elturel. He never wanted the position, but because of the many deaths within the ranks of the order, he had to step up. His friend and fellow Hellrider, Barachiel, was the main reason he was able to grow into a capable commander. The loss of his friend saddens Ramius, and the news of his imprisonment within the Nine Hells gnaws at his soul. Ramius is a natural horseman and a gifted athlete. The soldiers he leads often say that there isn’t anything that Ramius can’t mount or ride. He’s ridden horses, mammoths, and machines into battle. Loyalty, honor, and duty are virtues that Ramius upholds. He fears nothing other than losing those he cares for. Ramius as a Contact Ramius doesn't have the personal ability to cast Plane Shift —instead, he has been given a magic item that allows him to visit with the party every few days. When he arrives, he brings general supplies such as food and water, and treats any wounds, curses, or diseases the party has (to the best of his ability). Afterwards, he offers a selection of useful magic items for purchase, or, if the party already has excess magic items, he offers to purchase them for keeping or disposal. Purchasing Items from Ramius Item Cost Adventuring supplies Original price Amulet of Health 12,000 gp Bracers of Defense 12,000 gp Cloak of Protection 600 gp Gauntlets of Ogre Power 550 gp Holy Avenger 175,000 gp Horseshoes of a Zephyr 18,000 gp Horseshoes of Speed 6,500 gp Horn of Valhalla (silver) 25,500 gp Javelin of Lightning 500 gp Mace of Smiting 9,000 gp Mithral Armor 700 gp Ring of Protection 12,000 gp Shield, +1 450 gp Shield, +2 12,000 gp Shield, +3 40,000 gp Sun Blade 35,000 gp Selling Magic Items to Ramius Rarity Value Uncommon 250 gp Rare 2,500 gp Very rare 10,000 gp Legendary 55,000 gp Traits Aura of Protection. Ramius and any ally that starts their turn within 30 feet of him have a +4 bonus to all saving throws and resistance to nonmagical damage. Actions Multiattack. Ramius makes two Longsword attacks. Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) slashing damage or 11 (1d10 + 6) if wielded in two hands, plus 13 (3d8) radiant damage. If the target is an evil creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or take an additional 13 (3d8) radiant damage. Divine Wave (Recharge 6). Ramius strikes the ground and causes holy energy to radiate outwards. Each creature of his choice within 30 feet of him must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. Targets take 21 (6d6) thunder damage plus 21 (6d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures that fail the save are knocked down (have the prone condition). Spellcasting. Ramius casts one of the following spells, using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): 1/day each: Aura of Purity, Compelled Duel, Crusader’s Mantle, Death Ward, Dispel Evil and Good, Find Steed, Lesser Restoration, Remove Curse, Revivify, Shield of Faith Reactions Healing Touch. As a reaction to Ramius or an adjacent creature taking 50 points or more of damage, Ramius reaches out and channels divine energy, healing 13 (2d8 + 4) hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 28645
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Chains of Asmodeus

