# Ravager Archon

**description**: Unlike their counterpart warden archons, ravager archons would lead devils to raid, pillage, and lay siege on enemy encampments and settlements. Their knowledge and experience of guarding well-defended bastions make them perfect to spearhead such missions. They are sometimes sent to the Material Plane to lead diabolical cults in assault missions against their enemies. In combat, ravager archons are bloodthirsty and ferocious fighters, tearing their enemies apart with their mighty claws and sharp teeth. What makes them even more dangerous than warden archons is their ability to cast the powerful devastating wave spell. Fallen Archons An archon always answers to a higher being: a superior archon, angel, and always to a Mount Celestial deity. It is expected to abide by and enforce the laws of its god. There are rare instances that an archon, just like its angel brethren, for some reason or another, would deviate from the stringent rules set for it. Depending on the gravity of its actions, an archon may be stripped of its station, banished from Mount Celestia, or even imprisoned. Such an archon has become a fallen archon. Fallen from Grace. Most fallen archons who are banished willingly live out their lives as mortals in the Material Plane, accepting it as a form of penitence. However, a few, having been twisted by their perverse pride, greed, and selfishness, become subversive and hide out in the Lower Planes. As they simmer in anger and hate, they become prone to temptation. Diabolical Transformation. Agents representing archdevils from the Nine Hells offer fallen archons a place where they can be respected, given power, and a chance to punish those that have wronged them. Those that accept sign a diabolical contract that binds their souls to Asmodeus and the Nine Hells. They transform and become corrupted shadows of their former selves and ultimately become devils. They lose some of their archon abilities but gain new, fiendish ones. Agents of the Nine Hells. Most fallen archons become soldiers of archdevils that recruited them. Others become assassins, agents, and spies. No matter their role, fallen archons are no longer bound by their conscience or morality and have become cruel, merciless, and unforgiving. Immortal Nature. A fallen archon doesn’t require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the fallen archon’s darkvision. Magic Resistance. The fallen archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Unerring Assay. The fallen archon can unerringly identify the alignment of any creature it can see within 60 feet of it. Masking one's alignment, such as the use of a ring of mind shielding , will not deter the fallen archon’s unerring assay. Actions Multiattack. The fallen archon makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The fallen archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: bane, darkness, detect evil and good, invisibility (self only) 1/day: destructive wave Teleport. The fallen archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

