# Redwing

**description**: “Mein laboratory had ein serious rat problem üntil I got Reddy here. Now every day, it brinks me several dead rats. Every day. Ze lab has been rat-free for ein month! Vere does it keep findink all zese rats?!" — Humperdink, Still Has a Rat Problem Type: Monstrosity Creature Component: Any bloodhound Bonus Tamer Improvement: Agility I and +2 Hit Dice When parts from a deadly bloodhound are biomantically grafted onto a hunting falcon, the result is a redwing—a deadly and talented predator gifted with the sharp eyes to detect any prey, the dizzying speed to chase it, and the ferocity to cut it down. Redwings are fond of taking and proudly displaying trophies from their victorious hunts, and the especially successful ones grow a deeper shade of crimson with age, as blood tints their feathers and metal. If any of the redwing’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the redwing’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the redwing’s Dexterity modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the redwing the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Agility I Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion) While not wearing armour, the redwing gains a bonus to its AC equal to its Dexterity modifier. Blood Reader I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (tamer) Once on each of the redwing’s turns, when it deals damage to a creature that has blood and is within 5 feet of it, it can force the creature to make a Constitution saving throw . On a failed save, the redwing extracts and ingests some of the creature’s blood, storing it within the compartment in its chest. A willing creature can also feed some blood to the redwing as an action while within its reach. The redwing can only hold the blood of one creature at a time; if it extracts blood from another, the first sample is destroyed. While the redwing has a creature’s blood stored within it, its tamer knows 3 of the following pieces of information (tamer’s choice when blood is first extracted): Whether it has fewer than all, three-quarters, one-half, or one-quarter of its hit points. How many spell slots it has left, if any, and their levels. Whether it’s under the effect of any spells or curses, and what they are. What special senses it possesses, their ranges, and the languages it understands. Its damage resistances and immunities. Its condition immunities. Its current emotional state, in the form of a word or a short sentence. When the redwing’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, they can choose 4 pieces of information to learn instead of 3. Eagle Eyes I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion & tamer) The redwing gains darkvision out to 30 feet and can’t be surprised. While within the range of the redwing’s darkvision, its tamer gains the same benefits. When the redwing’s tamer reaches 5th level in the tamer class, the range of the darkvision increases to 60 feet . Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) The redwing gains two new action options: Talons and Multiattack. The damage die of the Talons attack increases with the specified die size in the redwing’s Sharp improvement. Multiattack. As an action, the redwing makes two attacks: one with its Steel Wing and one with its Talons. Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: Dex modifier + PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d4 + Dex modifier slashing damage. Sharp Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The damage die of the redwing’s Steel Wing attack increases to a d10 and its Talons (see above) to a d10 . Agility II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Agility I Type: Active (bonus action), Passive (companion) The redwing can take the Dash action as a bonus action. In addition, it doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. Eagle Eyes II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Eagle Eyes I Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The redwing’s proficiency bonus is doubled for any Perception checks it makes. In addition, it can cast the see invisibility spell without requiring any components. While the redwing is under the effects of this spell, the tamer is also under the effects of the spell while within the range of the redwing’s darkvision. After the redwing casts this spell, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Reinforced Plating Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The redwing has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. Blood Reader II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Blood Reader I Type: Active (bonus action), Passive (companion & tamer) While the redwing has a creature’s blood stored within it, both it and its tamer have advantage on ability checks made to detect or track that creature. In addition, the redwing can use a bonus action to consume the blood it has stored and gain advantage on the next attack roll it makes against the creature that blood belonged to before the end of the turn. Dive Bomb Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) If the redwing flies at least 10 feet straight toward a target and then immediately hits it with a Steel Wing attack, the target takes an extra 3 ( 1d6 ) slashing damage for each 10 feet the redwing flew, up to a maximum of 3d6 . When the redwing’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage increases to 4 ( 1d8 ), and the maximum to 4d8 . Steel Storm Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the redwing can unleash its full potential, becoming a lightning-fast killing machine. Until the end of the turn, its speed is doubled, it has advantage on all attack rolls, and it can make up to five Steel Wing attacks, as long as each one is made against a different target. After the redwing uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 28918
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

