# Remmanon

**description**: The remmanon appears as a naked androgynous humanoid creature that is constantly hovering a few feet above the ground. Barbed chains and hooks adorn its hairless skin, and long ram-like horns curl backwards on each side of its head. Devils of Discord. Remmanons are greater devils of discord, greed, jealousy, and lust. They hate and destroy the concepts of camaraderie, kinship, teamwork, trust, and harmony by sowing dissonance among mortals, breaking their ranks from within. Most remmanons can be found in Phlegethos, and serve the archdevil Fierna, while a few work under Dispater and Mammon. Insidious Manipulators. In combat, remmanons prefer to stay behind the front lines and will very rarely engage in melee. They would rather manipulate and influence without been seen, using spells and their Insidious Aura to do most of the damage. If hard-pressed, they summon bearded devils to protect them and if they must, use their accursed hellfire touch that can send souls to hell. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the devil's darkvision. Magic Resistance. The remmanon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The remmanon makes two Hellfire Touch attacks or two Infernal Bolt attacks. Hellfire Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (3d6) fire damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Any humanoid killed by Hellfire Touch has its soul funneled into the River Styx, where it’s reborn instantly as a lemure devil. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a wish spell followed by a true resurrection spell. Infernal Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) fire damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the remmanon's next turn. Teleport. The remmanon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing and carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Summon Bearded Devils (1/Day). The remmanon magically summons 1d3 bearded devils ( MM , pg. 70). The devils appear in unoccupied spaces within 60 feet of the remmanon and act as the remmanon's allies. The devils remain until the remmanon dies or until it dismisses them as an action. Spellcasting. The remmanon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect evil and good, detect magic, disguise self, dissonant whispers (5d6 damage) 1/day each: plane shift (self only) Bonus Actions Insidious Aura. The remmanon activates or deactivates this aura. While active, the remmanon's allies have advantage on attack rolls while within 20 feet of the remmanon. All other creatures that start its turn within 20 feet of the remmanon must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw, unless the remmanon is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature must use its action to move up to its speed and make a melee weapon attack against a visible creature of the remmanon's choice. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the remmanon's Insidious Aura for the next 24 hours. Constructs, Devils, and Undead are immune to this effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

