# Revenant Avenger

**description**: When a paladin dies after being betrayed and its quest left unfulfilled, it can sometimes rise as a revenant avenger. Unlike the normal revenant, the avenger retains its skills as a paladin. Traits Regeneration. The revenant regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the revenant takes fire or radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the revenant's next turn. The revenant dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Rejuvenation. When the revenant's body is destroyed, its soul lingers. After 24 hours, the soul inhabits and animates another humanoid corpse on the same plane of existence and regains all its hit points. While the soul is bodiless, a wish spell can be used to force the soul to go to the afterlife and not return. Turn Immunity. The revenant is immune to effects that turn Undead. Vengeful Tracker. The revenant knows the distance to and direction of any creature against which it seeks revenge, even if the creature and the revenant are on different planes of existence. If the creature being tracked by the revenant dies, the revenant knows. Actions Multiattack. The revenant makes two melee attacks. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 17 (2d12 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature against which the revenant has sworn vengeance, the target takes an extra 14 (4d6) slashing damage. Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature against which the revenant has sworn vengeance, the target takes an extra 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage. Instead of dealing damage, the revenant can grapple the target (escape DC 14) provided the target is Large or smaller. Vengeful Glare. The revenant targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it and against which it has sworn vengeance. The target must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target is paralyzed until the revenant deals damage to it, or until the end of the revenant's next turn. When the paralysis ends, the target is frightened of the revenant for 1 minute. The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if it can see the revenant, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The revenant casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): 1/day each: hold person, haste Bonus Actions Hunter's Mark (2/Day). The revenant casts hunter's mark using Charisma as the spellcasting ability Smite (1/Turn). When the revenant hits a creature with a melee attack, it deals 9 (2d8) radiant or necrotic damage to the target. Reactions Parry. The revenant adds 4 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the revenant must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

