# Rhazien Krauss

**description**: Though born an heir to impressive nobility, Rhazien’s obsession with the occult swiftly drained his family’s fortune to coppers. However, his research into the powers beyond the material plane expanded his mind, and he soon established himself as a powerful mage at the head of a cult devoted to worship of beings of the outer realms. Appearance. Born a changeling, Rhazien is capable of shifting his form to anything he desires. However, his dealings with the unknowable horrors in the far realms have made his true form that of a humanoid mass of writhing worm-like tentacles. He keeps this form hidden, but moonlight forces it to reappear wherever it contacts his skin. Motivation. Rhazien has an insatiable and morbid curiosity for things that would cause madness in more rational minds. Though his reasons are perhaps almost as unknowable as those of the beings he seeks, his ultimate goal is to bring one into the world regardless of the existential threats they would pose. Personality. Single-minded in his quest for ever more power, Rhazien is demanding and often aggressive. His cultists fear him almost as much as they do the powers they worship, and believe him to be blessed or chosen by these powers due to his ability to change his shape and summon otherworldly creatures at will. Plot Hooks Rifts to the Beyond. Members of the cult have taken up residence in a small, quiet town, and are practicing summoning rituals that have resulted in a recent disappearance. The only eyewitness rambles about an inky rift and tendrils of wet darkness reaching outward from a dripping maw surrounding a single golden eye, devouring the missing person. The townsfolk aren’t sure what to make of the report, but seek aid from the party as they pass through the town. Quest for Knowledge. Rhazien’s otherworldly knowledge makes him an expert of the arcane. In return for a few services, Rhazien can grant the party access to spells, powers, or other rewards that might aid them in their other quests. The Final Summoning. Rhazien’s cult has found the true name of a great being from the outer realms and plans to summon it. Can the party stop the ritual before the world-devouring entity makes it through the portal? Tactics A defensive and conjuration specialist, Rhazien has hyper-focused his spellcasting ability trading versatility for repetition. He never enters combat alone, preferring to have a few cultists nearby at all times and summoning Servants of Rhazien from the outer realms to boost their numbers. If a fight looks serious, he will make use of Rhazien’s horrific transformation to try to turn the table in his favor. If forced into melee combat, Rhazien makes use of vile incantation to repeatedly Injure combatants and encourage them to stay away. Traits Aberrant Shapeshifter. Rhazien is considered an aberration in addition to his other types, and can take on any humanoid appearance he desires as a free action. Spellcaster. Rhazien is a 20th level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 18, spell attack bonus +10). Master of Wards. Whenever Rhazien casts a spell that grants him a bonus to armor class or sets his armor class to a value (such as mage armor), he gains an extra point of armor class. Actions Cursed Knife. Melee Spell Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4+5) slashing damage, plus 22 (4d10) necrotic damage. Cogniphagy (3/Rest). Rhazien casts the cogniphagy * spell. One creature Rhazien can see within 60 ft. must make an Intelligence saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) psychic damage on a failed save or half as much on a success. Additionally, a creature that fails its saving throw gains disadvantage on Concentration checks and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws for 1 minute (requires concentration). While the spell lasts, Rhazien has advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws. The target can make a new saving throw to end the effect at the end of each of its turns. The spell ends early if it no longer affects its target. Vile Incantation. Rhazien casts vile incantation * at 3rd level. One creature Rhazien touches must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 21 (6d6) force damage and be inflicted with a core Injury of your choice. This Injury must be of Dangerous II severity (or Handicap I for monsters and NPCs). On a successful save the creature suffers half damage and is not Injured. Any creature immune to polymorph effects, such as a shapechanger, or not made of organic matter has advantage on the saving throw. Any creature that is incorporeal is not affected by this spell. This spell cannot inflict an Injury if the creature already has one of the severity that would be inflicted. Rhazien's Horrific Transformation (1/Rest). Rhazien casts Rhazien's horrific transformation *. Rhazien chooses one creature within 60 ft.. That creature must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or transform into a Servant of Rhazien for 1 minute (requires concentration). While transformed in this way, the creature serves him and implicitly understands his desired commands. If the creature’s new form is reduced to 0 hit points, the spell ends. When the spell ends, the creature must make a Wisdom saving throw or lose its memory of the experience. A creature that succeeds this saving throw is frightened of Rhazien and sickened for 1 minute. The creature can make a new Wisdom saving throw to end these conditions at the end of each of its turns. Summon Servant. Rhazien summons a Servant of Rhazien from the far realms to aid him. It appears in a space within 30 ft. of Rhazien and acts on its own initiative, following his telepathic commands. Rhazien can only control 5 Servants of Rhazien at a time, including from Rhazien's horrific transformation. Reactions Shield (3/Rest). When targeted by an attack or the magic missile spell, Rhazien casts the shield spell, gaining a +6 bonus to his armor class and becoming immune to the magic missile spell until the start of his next turn, including against the triggering attack or spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (shapechanger)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

