# Ringlerun

**description**: Ringlerun became an adventurer to better satisfy his craving for arcane knowledge. One of his adventures took him into an underwater tomb, where he tricked a marid into surrendering a staff of power . This staff greatly increased Ringlerun’s capabilities and made him the envy of many rival spellcasters. Ringlerun has a good heart, but he’s easily distracted by intellectual pursuits. He would rather spend time in quiet contemplation or reading than in frivolous conversation. Alignment. Lawful good. Personality Trait. “Don’t talk to me. I’m reading.” Ideal. “Magic belongs only in the hands of those who use it for noble ends.” Bond. “My staff of power dramatically enhances my magical abilities. I shudder to think how its power could be abused in the wrong hands.” Flaw. “I get prickly when people who are clearly less intelligent want to tell me what to do.” Combat Notes Ringlerun can fend off melee attackers with wild swings of his staff, but he prefers to fly out of reach and attack at range using his staff’s formidable spells ( cone of cold being his favorite). Traits Special Equipment. Ringlerun wields a staff of power . It has 20 charges when fully charged and regains 2d8 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If its last charge is expended, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff retains its +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls but loses its other properties; on a 20, it regains 1d8 + 2 charges. Actions Multiattack. Ringlerun makes three Staff of Power or Freezing Ray attacks. He can replace one of those attacks with a use of Spellcasting. Staff of Power. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 4 (1d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage, or 5 (1d8 + 1) bludgeoning damage when used with two hands, and Ringlerun can expend 1 of the staff’s charges to deal an extra 3 (1d6) force damage. Freezing Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit : 27 (6d8) cold damage. Spellcasting. Ringlerun casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: light, mage hand, prestidigitation 3/day each: charm person, detect magic, sleep 1/day each: banishment, dispel magic, fly, knock Staff Spell. While holding his staff of power , Ringlerun can expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it (spell save DC 13, +7 to hit with spell attacks): cone of cold (8d8 cold damage; 5 charges), fireball (10d6 fire damage; 5 charges), globe of invulnerability (6 charges), hold monster (5 charges), levitate (2 charges), lightning bolt (10d6 lightning damage; 5 charges), magic missile (1 charge), ray of enfeeblement (1 charge), or wall of force (5 charges). Valor’s Call The noble adventuring party known as Valor’s Call was founded by Strongheart, a resolute human paladin committed to destroying evil wherever it rears its ugly head. Strongheart alone determines who can become a member of this prestigious group, which has more members than those described here. (The other members, who do not appear in this adventure, are busy elsewhere.) Strongheart is always on the lookout for courageous heroes who are willing to devote themselves to a good cause. Only good-aligned characters are allowed to join Valor’s Call.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human, wizard)
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 11857
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Wild Beyond the Witchlight

