# Risen Fetch

**description**: Fetch A fetch is a twisted, deviant simulacrum of a humanoid creature that exists or existed at one point on the Material Plane. Rumors of fetches that are reflections of entities from other planes persist, but none of these tales speak of fetches that duplicate anything other than a humanoid source. A fetch can manifest spontaneously when a powerful creature undergoes a significant emotional event or dies, either while on the First World or while in an area influenced significantly by the First World, but one can also be created by significant forces like the Eldest in order to torment and vex those who have annoyed them. While a fetch manifests from a soul’s “reflection,” and as such bears a striking resemblance to that creature’s appearance in life, a fetch has no true memories of its own. It keeps fragments of false remembrances from its source as if it experienced them in a half-remembered dream—which further provokes the fetch’s animosity and jealousy toward the creature it mirrors. A fetch is similar in appearance to the creature whose soul spawned it, save that it displays feylike features such as pointed ears, plantlike elements, or supernatural grace. A fetch who seeks to impersonate a still-living source must disguise these features, and manifests its fetch weapon as one known to be wielded by its target. These weapons are highly versatile, and wounds created by them cause painful memories of past harm to augment their damage. Risen Fetch When a powerful force wills it, echoes of the corrupted soul of a powerful undead creature (be it one that still lives or one that was destroyed within the past 10 years) can be used to spawn a fetch as well. A risen fetch possesses potent magical powers, and appears more as its source did in life than as an undead. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The risen fetch’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). The fetch can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: disguise self 1/day: phantasmal killer (as a 9th level spell), plane shift (to or from the First World only), sending , suggestion , telekinesis , wish (duplicating spells only) Magic Resistance. The fetch has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. The fetch regains 20 hit points at the start of its turn. If the stalker takes fire or necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the risen fetch’s next turn. The fetch dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Shadow of Death. When the fetch scores a critical hit on a foe with its fetch weapon, it can use a bonus action to cast phantasmal killer against that target with its innate spellcasting. Tongues. The fetch can understand all spoken languages and can be understood by any creature that has a language. Actions Multiattack. The risen fetch makes four weapon attacks. Summoned Fetch Weapon. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d6+8) slashing damage plus 21 (6d6) psychic damage. When the risen fetch manifests this weapon, it can choose its appearance, and can alter the damage type from slashing to bludgeoning or piercing.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

