# Rivermaw Stormborn

**description**: Countless goliath legends tell of heroes born beneath a raging storm: Kaldon Thunderhead, who slew the ember roc of the south; Marydra Skysplitter, who defeated a champion of the Ruiner in single combat; and Yodrell Rumblechest, who halted a flash flood with only his voice, to name just a few. Though the stormborn of legend were all half-giants, more and more Rivermaw have begun to feel the Stormlord’s power reverberate within them. These peerless warriors are blessed with preternatural skill with a blade and the uncanny ability to command lightning. Often destined to become mythic heroes, stormborn fight with reckless abandon—but many can be distressingly prideful and might need reminding that the songs of defeated or tyrannical stormborn are rarely sung by the bards. The tyrant Kevdak’s fearsome Herd of Storms was so named because of the many stormborn in its ranks, but that herd was broken at Westruun some two decades ago. Now the Rivermaw Herd is bolstered by those who were freed from Kevdak’s rule. The few stormborn remaining from that broken herd are part of the Rivermaw, and more storm-blessed warriors have been born into the Rivermaw since, ready to forge new legends. Rivermaw Warriors The Rivermaw Herd is a nomadic society mostly composed of half-giants, also known as goliaths, and a mighty force for good on the Dividing Plains. The herd was once conquered by a goliath tyrant named Kevdak, then formed anew after Kevdak was eventually defeated by Vox Machina. Free of Kevdak’s martial cruelty, the Rivermaw see it as their duty to prevent any such tyrant from conquering the Dividing Plains ever again. Though most members of the Rivermaw Herd are goliaths, their ranks include people of all races who wish to live beyond the stone walls of Westruun and the palisades of plains towns like Turst Fields. Orcs, humans, halflings, and gnolls make up most of the rest of the herd’s warriors. Most of those warriors value strength and endurance over other qualities, but the brawlers and stormborn of the Rivermaw are better known for cunning, intelligence, strategy, and a unique attunement to the mighty thunder of the Stormlord. Traits Reckless . At the start of its turn, the stormborn can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Innate Spellcasting. The stormborn’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12). The stormborn can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 3/day: lightning bolt 1/day: call lightning Actions Multiattack. The stormborn makes two greataxe attacks. If it is concentrating on call lightning , it can also call down a lightning bolt. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) lightning damage. Reactions Endurance (Recharges after a Short or Long rest). When the stormborn takes damage, it can reduce the damage by 10 (1d12 + 4).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any)
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

