# Rochade

**description**: A small, agile figure with pointed ears and large, dark eyes darts out of hiding; its long arms and fingers give it an ape-like gait. Small horns protrude from its forehead through the ochre fuzz that covers its body and face. Rochades are small fey that survive in dark underground caves and dungeons by scavenging and stealing. They live off anything that they can steal from more organized denizens of the underground and aren't picky about their spoils. They depend on two strategies to survive the harsh and dangerous life underground: stealth and their innate ability to teleport. They avoid open conflict by fleeing as soon as they are discovered, but they defend themselves when cornered. Confounding Teleportation. With their stealth and mobility, rochades can switch places with opponents using minor teleportation magic. This switching can leave opponents disoriented about each rochade's true location, giving the rochades time to escape—or to steal an extra item while an opponent is left scrambling for a sword several feet away. Steal and Run. Rochades are masterful thieves and scavengers, but are not discriminating in their thefts. They grab whatever valuables they can and get out of the reach of their pursuers as quickly as possible. Usually they take practical items, such as food and tools, rather than gems or gold; the elusive creatures pose more of a nuisance than a threat to most underground travelers. Elusive. The rochade has advantage on saving throws and ability checks made to avoid or escape an effect that would reduce its speed. In addition, nonmagical difficult terrain composed of natural rocks or cavernous terrain doesn't cost it extra movement. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the rochade has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) rolls that rely on sight. Actions Thieving Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Instead of dealing damage, the rochade can steal one item the target is wearing or carrying, provided the item weighs no more than 10 pounds, isn't a weapon, and isn't wrapped around or firmly attached to the target. For example, a rochade could steal a hat or belt pouch but not a creature's shirt or armor. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Bonus Actions Relay. The rochade teleports one object it is holding that weighs no more than 10 pounds into the empty hand of one friendly creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target isn't a rochade, it must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw to catch the object, otherwise the object falls to the ground in a space within 5 feet of the target. Short Step. The rochade teleports to an unoccupied space it can see within 15 feet of it. Reactions Switch. When a creature the rochade can see targets it with an attack, the rochade can switch places with any creature it can see within 15 feet of it. An unwilling creature must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw to avoid the switch. If the switch is successful, the switched creature becomes the target of the attack instead.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

