# Rod of Retribution Sahuagin Warlock of Uk'otoa

**description**: The slumbering leviathan Uk’otoa preys on the fears and ambitions of humanoids that brave the depths of the Lucidian Ocean. Countless communities of sahuagin inhabit uncharted pockets of water along the Menagerie Coast, and the most ambitious among them often hear the call of the leviathan in their dreams, urging them to take his power and use it to achieve their bloodsoaked dreams. Sahuagin who answer the call of Uk’otoa tend to have one ambition in common: vengeance against the land dwellers of the Clovis Concord for daring to sail oceans that do not belong to them. As these devotees receive dark boons from their leviathan lord, other sahuagin begin to gather to their side, drawn to their displays of power and seeking their own pathway to power. Over time, these warlocks eventually become empty husks, mere receptacles for Uk’otoa’s power, and puppets that the slumbering leviathan can control as he pleases. Variant: Rod of Retribution Sahuagin warlocks of Uk’otoa who have exceptional potential in the eyes of the leviathan lord are granted a rod of retribution (see chapter 6) in addition to Uk’otoa’s typical blessing, the Sword of Fathoms. A sahuagin warlock of Uk’otoa holding this rod gains the following reaction: Retribution (3/Day). When a creature the warlock can see within 60 feet of it damages the warlock, the creature must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Traits Blood Frenzy. The warlock has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn’t have all its hit points. Innate Spellcasting. The warlock’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: eldritch blast (see “Actions” below), minor illusion 1/day each: armor of Agathys, arms of Hadar, counterspell, crown of madness, invisibility, hunger of Hadar Limited Amphibiousness. The warlock can breathe air and water, but it needs to be submerged at least once every 4 hours to avoid suffocating. Shark Telepathy. The warlock can magically command any shark within 120 feet of it, using a limited telepathy. Actions Multiattack. The warlock makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its Sword of Fathoms. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Sword of Fathoms. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) slashing damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or begin choking. The choking creature is incapacitated until the end of its next turn, when the effect ends on it. Eldritch Blast (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 5 (1d10) force damage. Reactions Retribution (3/Day). When a creature the warlock can see within 60 feet of it damages the warlock, the creature must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (sahuagin)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 29448
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Explorer's Guide to Wildemount

