# Roggits

**description**: Unbound Spirits When the new-born world of Ashandri was transported into the Braythian Void, it was cut off from the afterlife for five days. The souls of those who died during this time were captured in Ashandri, unable to pass on to their next state of existence. They turned into Unbound Spirits, a type of undead that is unique to Braythe. These ghost-like entities are solely created in the days a world is cut off. As soon as new conduits open, and the souls of the dead can move on to heaven and hell (and everything in between), no new Unbound Spirits are created in a world-island. While these beings appear to be not much different than ghosts and apparitions, there are three major distinctions. First of all, any kind of soul could have become an Unbound Spirit. This includes animals and even plants, funghi and mindless oozes. There are entire areas that come "alive" with these ghostly beings at night, like a hidden world that reveals itself only in darkness. The most infamous example for this is the Bloodhaunt Forest. Second, an Unbound Spirit cannot be released. Despite extensive research, nobody has found a way to allow these lost souls to enter their deserved afterlife. Unbound Spirits are only created during the first days of a new world in Braythe, and even after the world itself reconnects to other planes, these incorporeal entitities stay disconnected. This also led to their name: Sages from the Arcanists believe that every soul is inherently bound to other planes, and this link is the reason why mortal souls end up in heaven or hell. The Unbound Spirits, though, miss such a bond to other planes. Even divine intervention cannot help such a spirit to pass on. Some of them are lost in an eternity of suffering, others adapt and lead their unlife as good as they can. They still seem to be bound to the reality of Braythe, leading to heated discussions about the name "Unbound" among sages. The third great difference to regular ghosts is that most Unbound Spirits are very close to how they were before their death. Many of them, especially those with semi-sentience and below, don't even understand they are dead, and try to live their life as they did before. While many typical undead are evil or at least dangerous, Unbound Spirits don't change their alignment or develop a sudden bloodlust. They are simply lost souls trapped in the mortal world. They usually keep their previous abilities and knowledge, and can even learn new skills or change their world-views as they make new experiences. There seems to be no method to permanently kill an Unbound Spirit. A few ways to banish or imprison the lost souls have been found, but none of these truly destroy or release such a spirit. If an Unbound Spirit is somehow killed, it vanishes in violet smoke, only to reform and reappear in the following night. Unbound Spirit Traits Almost all Unbound Spirits share a set of traits . Curiously, the Roggits are an exception, puzzling sages to this day. Roggits When Ashandri was cut off from the afterlife in its first days, not only sentient beings died and turned into Unbound Spirits. Among the animals that lost their lives were a particular sort of rabbits, the so-called Bairn Rabbits. They were native to the land of Delvaroth, and known for being incredibly cute: Large eyes, round, child-like faces, and a beautiful fur made them the beloved pets of many children. But it seems this wasn't the only thing that was special about these animals. Unbound Spirits usually have two options: They either roam the world at night as ghostly figures, or they take possession of items or people. The roggits are the only known exception: They fused with something else - specifically, with small rocks. These small stones have taken on a shape roughly resembling a rabbit, and the rabbit spirits are in full control of their new bodies. Opposite to other Unbound Spirits, they cannot be cast out of their rocky shells by clerics or other divine servants. (They still can be turned like a regular undead, though.) But the strangeness doesn't stop there. Over the years, the Roggits seem to have become at least semi-sentient. They have the intelligence of a small child, even surpassing dogs or wolves. And with this sentience, they soon realized that the predators they once feared couldn't harm their stone bodies anymore. Soon, the roggits became dauntless, unafraid of pretty much everything. For even if they were destroyed, they reappear in the next night, taking possession of yet another small rock. The little undead creatures even learned to create small pebbles within their own bodies, and they are capable of spitting them out in a ranged attack. With their - literally - rock-hard bodies, an angered Roggit can be a serious threat to a regular humanoid. In the areas where they are known to exist, people are careful about throwing rocks - especially since the Roggits are known to hold a grudge. The mysteries around the roggits keep many sages fascinated. But the animal spirits don't like being studied, instead hopping around through nature. They don't really do anything, except enjoying their eternal unlife - and that's exactly how they like it. Anatomy A roggit looks like a small stone that's roughly shaped like a rabbit. The rocky body can move as if it was made from flesh and blood, but has no physical needs, inner organs, etc. Reproduction Roggits don't reproduce. A limited number of roggits exists, and like all Unbound Spirits, they cannot be permanently killed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: undead
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 17295
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

