# Roper Vrykolakas

**description**: When an evil dragon, giant, or monstrosity is cursed and magically slain by a demon lord, it may rise as a vrykolakas if the demon lord wills it. At first, this powerful undead creature resembles its original form but with pale skin and bloodshot eyes. The vrykolakas has the ability to shift into its hybrid form, where it creature transforms into a more feral-looking creature with vampire bat-like features. In this form, the vrykolakas gains bat-like wings, fangs, and ears. Unlike a regular vampire, the vrykolakas has only Sunlight Hypersensitivity as a weakness. The vrykolakas exists to serve its master that spawned it and only gains its freedom if its master is destroyed. Traits False Appearance. While the vrykolakas remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal cave formation, such as a stalagmite. Grasping Tendrils. The vrykolakas can have up to six tendrils at a time. Each tendril can be attacked (AC 20; 10 hit points; immunity to poison and psychic damage). Destroying a tendril deals no damage to the vrykolakas, which can extrude a replacement tendril on its next turn. A tendril can also be broken if a creature takes an action and succeeds on a DC 16 Strength check against it. Regeneration. The vrykolakas regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in sunlight. If the vrykolakas takes radiant damage or damage from holy water, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the vrykolakas’s next turn. Spider Climb. The vrykolakas can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The vrykolakas takes 20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Actions Multiattack. The vrykolakas makes four Tendril attacks, uses Reel, and one Bite attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (4d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vrykolakas regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Tendril. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 50 ft., one creature. Hit: The target is grappled (escape DC 16). Until the grapple ends, the target is restrained and has disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws, and the vrykolakas can't use the same tendril on another target. Bonus Actions Aura of Horror (Hybrid Form Only). Each creature of the vrykolakas’s choice within 30 feet of the vrykolakas must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, the creature's speed is halved, can't use reactions, can't make more than one attack per turn, and can use either an action or a bonus action during its turns, not both. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this vrykolakas' Aura of Horror for the next 24 hours. Change Shape. The vrykolakas polymorphs into a hybrid vampire bat, or back into its true form. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

