# Rose Golem

**description**: The creature stepping forward from the glazed clay pot is formed from thorny green vines twisted together in the shape of a humanoid torso. In its face, where eyes would be, are a set of perfect, lush roses. Rose golems were first crafted by the fey to watch over the verdant gardens that adorn their palaces. Traits Gentle Watchers. Rose golems serve as ornamental caretakers of the gardens they protect, but they are also particularly suited to deal humanely with intruders. These golems do not kill unwelcome visitors but rather lull them into enchanted sleep before delivering them to their masters. Such delicate enchantments allow for the removal of nosy mortals and other garden pests. Prized Creations. The creation of a rose golem is as much a matter of artistry as it is of magic. Fey, gnomes, and elves with a talent for floral arrangement spend a great deal of time weaving, arranging, and pruning these constructs to beautify them. This level of effort leads to a wide variety of rose golems, who sport different floral varietals, patterns, and colors. It is not uncommon for fey nobility to parade their rose golems around during summer garden parties. False Appearance. While the golem remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a hedge of rose bushes. Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If this attack reduces a creature to 0 hit points, it is cursed with thorn's kiss curse (see below). Soporific Scent. The golem releases an enchanting scent. Each creature that breathes within 60 feet of the golem must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or immediately fall unconscious and into a magical slumber. This slumber lasts for 1 hour or until the sleeper takes damage. The rose golem must take a bonus action on its subsequent turn to continue emitting the scent. It can stop creating the smell at any time. The scent can no longer affect creatures if the golem is incapacitated. Each round the golem continues to emit the soporific scent makes the effect harder to resist. At the beginning of every round that the golem maintains the scent, the DC to resist its effects increases by 1 (DC 11 on the first round, DC 12 on the second round, DC 13 on the third round, and so on). Thorn's Kiss Creatures affected by this curse are rendered unconscious as they fall into a deep, magical sleep. If the creature is at 0 hit points when it contracts this curse, it becomes stable and regains hit points as it normally would if it remains asleep for the duration of a long rest. A sleeping creature eventually suffers the effects of starvation as it normally would. A creature remains cursed until the curse is broken by a remove curse or wish spell. Creatures that cannot be put to sleep by magical means are immune to this curse.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 18580

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

