# Royal Sorcerer Mummy

**description**: When an emperor or king dies and is mummified, some of its most trusted advisors are also entombed with them to serve as guardians. The royal sorcerer mummy is an example. Mummies Presented here is the royal sorcerer and three examples of giant mummies: the ettin mummy, the hill giant mummy, and the ogre mummy. When some civilizations inter their nobility, they sometimes include a mummified giant which would serve as the tomb's guardian. Unusual Nature. A mummy doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Magic Resistance. The mummy has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sorcery Points. The mummy has 10 sorcery points. It can spend 1 or more sorcery points to gain one of the following benefits: Quickened Spell: When the mummy casts a spell that has a casting time of 1 action, it can spend 2 sorcery points to change the casting time to 1 bonus action for this casting. Subtle Spell: When the mummy casts a spell, it can spend l sorcery point to cast the spell without any somatic or verbal components. Actions Multiattack. The mummy can use its Dreadful Glare and makes one attack with its Rotting fist. Rotting Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with mummy rot. The cursed target can't regain hit points, and its hit point maximum decreases by 10 (3d6) for every 24 hours that elapse. If the curse reduces the target's hit point maximum to 0, the target dies, and its body turns to dust. The curse lasts until removed by the remove curse spell or other magic. Dreadful Glare. The mummy targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. If the target can see the mummy, it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or become frightened until the end of the mummy's next turn. If the target fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it is also paralyzed for the same duration. A target that succeeds on the saving throw is immune to the Dreadful Glare of all mummies (but not mummy lords) for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The mummy casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks): At will: infestation (3d6), mage hand, minor illusion 2/day each: cloudkill, mage armor, blindness/deafness, dimension door, lightning bolt, insect plague (scarabs only) Necrotic Burst (Recharge 5–6). The mummy conjures a 20-foot-radius sphere of negative energy centered on a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in the sphere must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (6d8) necrotic damage and is weakened until the start of the mummy’s next turn. While weakened, it has disadvantage on the following rolls that rely on Strength: attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t weakened.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

