# Rucio Sabhar

**description**: Those who know Rucio Sabhar say death itself courted him—in part because of the half-elf’s quick-witted charm, and in part because he’s cheated his way out of death more times than anyone has a right to. Born in a bustling city and raised in poverty, Rucio was recruited by the local thieves’ guild at a young age to serve as a messenger and spy. His first brush with death came shortly after his initiation, when he was betrayed on a heist to steal an iron flask from a local treasure hunter. After a literal stab in the back from his supposed allies, quick-thinking Rucio gave the traitors his canteen and kept the magic iron flask as they left him for dead. On the brink of death, he opened the flask and released a powerful pit fiend, who offered him a chance to live by making a warlock pact. Bolstered by infernal power, Rucio hunted the turncoats down and moved on to become a renowned adventurer. But the more fame and fortune he found, the more his patron demanded. Rucio spent years covertly searching for a way to get ahead of his patron and regain his freedom. Finally, after nearly a decade, Rucio found a book containing his patron’s true name. Invoking it, he summoned the pit fiend and demanded two things: that the devil forget him, and that it return to the iron flask . The pit fiend complied, but only after almost killing Rucio again and snatching the book away from him. Rucio’s gambit was successful: he kept his patron’s power and freed himself from the devil’s demands. In doing so, however, he became the target of an incessant hunt from cultists, warlocks, and devils seeking to retrieve the iron flask with the pit fiend and powerful book of names trapped inside. He’s hidden the flask beyond their reach—he hopes—and is determined to take the secret of its location to the grave. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede Rucio's darkvision. Fey Ancestry. Rucio has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put him to sleep. Pact Weapon. Rucio can use his Charisma modifier, instead of Strength or Dexterity, for attack and damage rolls with his rapier (included in the attack). Spellcasting. Rucio is a 14th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7, to hit with spell attacks). He regains spell slots when he finishes a short or long rest. He knows the following warlock spells: Cantrips (at will): chill touch, eldritch blast, mage hand, minor illusion 1st–5th level (3 5th-level slots): alarm, charm person, darkness, dimension door, dream, fireball, freedom of movement, hellish rebuke, hold monster, identify, mislead, misty step, pass without trace, scrying, shatter Actions Multiattack. Rucio makes three eldritch blast attacks, or attacks twice with his rapier. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Eldritch Blast (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) force damage. Magical Larceny (3/Long Rest). Rucio chooses one creature, object, or area within 5 feet of him that's affected by a spell, and makes Charisma check using eldritch thieves' tools with a +7 bonus. If the spell was cast by a creature, the DC equals the creature's spell save DC. Otherwise, the DC equals 10 + the spell's level. On a successful check, the spell ends. If Rucio ends a spell on a creature in this way, he can choose to steal its effects. After the spell ends on the creature, it immediately takes effect on Rucio for the remainder of its duration. This stole spell targets only him, even if it can normally target more creatures, and if it requires concentration, Rucio must concentrate to maintain it. Reactions Eldritch Gambit (2/Day). Rucio casts counterspell as a 3rd-level spell. If he successfully counters with this reaction, Rucio gains temporary hit points equal to 1d10 + the level of the spell that was countered.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: medium
- Type: humanoid (half-elf)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 21056
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 9

