# Ruffian

**description**: Though the samurai are the warrior caste of Rokugan, there are plenty of people who can hold their own in a fight. Bandits. Bandits are outlaws who thrive in the more rural and remote regions of Rokugan. Some bandits are commoners whose lands have been devastated by war, driving them to banditry out of necessity. Others are members of larger criminal organizations, or even disgraced samurai who prey upon the weak with their skills. Bandits usually target travelers on the Imperial roads, their scouts identifying easy targets in advance. Most bandits would prefer to avoid a fight if possible, instead relying on intimidation to relieve their targets of valuables. Criminal Enforcers. Rokugan has a number of powerful criminal syndicates and cartels, from the Scattered Leaves of the City of Lies to the Night Brotherhood of the City of the Rich Frog. These cartels use enforcers to tie up loose ends, intimidate rival businesses, and generally project influence of the region they occupy. In some places, like the notorious City of Lies, these criminal enterprises blur the line between community protection groups and racketeering, as the firefighters of that city provide a key service to the citizens… but are not above using threats to receive recompense for their efforts. Heretical Cults. The initiates of many heretical cults are little more than ruffians despite the dark arts wielded by their masters. Necromantic Bloodspeaker sects such as the Shriveled Heart Pact and the Crimson Petals use such enforcers to carry out their dread rites. The Lodge of the Laughing Moon, which worships the chaotic husband of Lady Sun and carries out acts of vandalism and havoc as part of their religious rites, is often populated in part by such individuals as well. Table A-6: Ruffian Motivations D12 Roll Ruffian Motivations 1 Desires to get out of the life, but fears repercussions if they leave. 2 Doesn’t really believe in the organization’s tenets, but sees it as a way to make a living. 3 Joined the organization during a period of uncertainty, and has no self-identity or community outside of it. 4 Was raised among their group, and has no other family to turn to. 5 Works for their organization to send money home to a sick family member. 6 Wants to earn enough money or clout to leave their organization. 7 Holds a great deal of loyalty to their friends in the organization. 8 Seeks the personal approval or affection of one of the organization’s leaders. 9 Fanatically believes the ideals of their leader. 10 Doesn’t believe in anything, but enjoys the lifestyle. 11 Believes that might makes right, and their organization is the best path to power. 12 Lives for the thrill of intimidating others. Traits Looming Presence. Hostile creatures within 5 feet have disadvantage on Intimidation and Persuasion checks. Opportunist. When making a melee attack against a target with 1 or more negative conditions, a ruffian deals an additional 1d4 damage. Actions Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) bludgeoning damage. Sling. Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, range 30 ft./120 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d4+1) bludgeoning damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any species)
- Alignment: any non-lawful
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 1/8

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

