# Runic Shield Guardian

**description**: The extremely rare runic shield guardian can only be created by the most powerful and gifted artificers and archmages. It is an advanced version of the shield guardian that has additional offensive abilities to deal with groups of enemies. It also has the ability to create a magical force field to protect its ward from harm. Traits Bound. The shield guardian is magically bound to an amulet. As long as the guardian and its amulet are on the same plane of existence, the amulet's wearer can telepathically call the guardian to travel to it, and the guardian knows the distance and direction to the amulet. If the guardian is within 60 feet of the amulet's wearer, half of any damage the wearer takes (rounded up) is transferred to the guardian. Regeneration. The shield guardian regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Spell Storing. A spellcaster who wears the shield guardian's amulet can cause the guardian to store one spell of 5th level or lower. To do so, the wearer must cast the spell on the guardian. The spell has no effect but is stored within the guardian. When commanded to do so by the wearer or when a situation arises that was predefined by the spellcaster, the guardian casts a stored spell with any parameters set by the original caster, requiring no components. When the spell is cast or a new spell is stored, any previously stored spell is lost. Actions Multiattack. The shield guardian makes two Fist attacks. Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) lightning damage. Shock Burst (Recharge 5–6). Lightning erupts from the shield guardian, striking creatures close to it. Each creature within 5 feet of the shield guardian must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 21 (6d6) lightning damage and can't take reactions until the end of the shield guardian's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Concussion Projectile (Recharges after a Long Rest). The shield guardian discharges a magically-charged projectile that explodes at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (4d8) thunder damage and is stunned until the end of the shield guardian's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't stunned. Force Field (1/Day). The shield guardian emits a 20-foot-diameter sphere of shimmering force centered on the shield guardian. Nothing--not physical objects, energy, or other spell effects--can pass through the force field, in or out, though a creature in the force field can breathe there. The force field is immune to all damage, and a creature or object inside can't be damaged by attacks or effects originating from outside, nor can a creature inside the force field damage anything outside it. A disintegrate spell targeting the force field destroys it without harming anything inside it. The force field remains for 1 minute, until the shield guardian dies, or until the shield guardian dismisses it as a bonus action. Reactions Shield. When a creature makes an attack against the wearer of the guardian's amulet, the guardian grants a +3 bonus to the wearer's AC if the shield guardian is within 5 feet of the wearer.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

