# Sacred Dog of Athena

**description**: Discipline is the one word that defines these beastly celestials. Decorated in beautiful bronze armor that shines with the blessings of their creator, these sacred dogs behave like a well-trained cell of soldiers and are often deployed during wars to aid powerful warriors that are leading battles in the name of Athens. It is not uncommon to see Generals and Captains being protected by a small pack of Athena’s celestial guards. Whenever peace rules the land, these dogs dedicate themselves to physical training, looking out for thieves near the vicinity of their temples and trying to keep the peace in their home. They do not spend much time indulging in games with each other or with visitors to the temple, but they have been observed to have a soft spot for responsible and hard-working children and youngsters. They are very appreciative of order, and as such they hold people and creatures that disturb it in contempt. Criminals, unruly citizens and other folks that disturb the daily life of the common folk are the typical targets for the ire of these beasts, who prefer intimidation to violence. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: 2/day each: sanctuary, shield, shield of faith, warding bond 1/day each: holy weapon Actions Multiattack. The sacred dog can make two bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Aura of Defense (Recharges after a short or long rest). The sacred dog unleashes a divine aura for 1 minute that protects its allies. As long as an ally of the sacred dog is within this aura they gain a +2 to their AC and saving throws. Bonus Actions Defensive Approach (3/Day). The sacred dog can take the dodge action as a bonus action. Reactions Parry. The sacred dog adds 3 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the sacred dog must see the attacker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

