# Sacred Dog of Aphrodite

**description**: Beauty is at the core of the creations of Aphrodite, and her sacred dogs are no exception. These celestials sport a beautiful coat of pristine white fur that seems to always stay clean, fluffy and soft but beautifully and elegantly decorated with ornaments of silver, gold and platinum. Their eyes are a soft seafoam green that shifts towards a beautiful pearl-cream color with the passing of the day and night cycle. If one didn’t know any better they might mistake the gorgeous creatures as the pets of nobility, as their behavior is very relaxed and content, seemingly lacking the violent will that one would expect from a guardian of a temple. But the truth is that violence is a last resort to these celestials, as they’d prefer to charm creatures into submission as soon as they reveal their intentions. The dogs of Aphrodite gravitate to people who possess beauty of some kind, which means different things for each individual celestial. They might appreciate particular parts of people’s appearance, their behavior or even their talents. But they tend to growl and threaten those who carry dark intentions, perceiving those as “true ugliness”. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Presence of Beauty. Any creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the sacred dog must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed by the sacred dog for 1 minute. On a successful save, the creature becomes immune to any sacred dog’s Presence of Beauty for 24 hours. Whenever the sacred dog deals damage to the charmed creature, the creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no verbal or material components: At Will: friends 2/day each: command, dissonant whispers, suggestion 1/day each: bane, calm emotions, crown of madness Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

