# Sacred Dog of Zeus

**description**: The Dogs of Zeus all carry a majestic appearance, their coats transitioning from a clear white cloud to pockets of electrified fur, stormy blue eyes and sparks of lightning dancing across their form. Out of all sacred dogs they are certainly the most zealous about the protection of their sacred ground. They are proud of their work but they also indulge themselves in praise doled out by the caretakers of their temple. Despite belonging to a pack they tend to be quite self-centered when it comes to their life outside of combat and their duty, which more often than not means attention and pampering by followers of Zeus. They do not get along with their brethren created by Poseidon or Hades and often end up in scuffles with both if by circumstance they encounter each other. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: lightning lure, shocking grasp 2/day each: call lightning, lightning bolt, shatter (as a 3rd level spell), thunder step, thunderous smite (as a bonus action) 1/day each: chain lightning Lightning Aura. Each creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the sacred dog or moves there for the first time on its turn takes 5 (1d10) lightning damage. Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an Attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The sacred dog makes two bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant, thunder or lightning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Thunderous Howl (Recharge 5-6). The sacred dog unleashes a painful howl that can be heard from up to 1000 feet away. All creatures within 30 feet of the sacred dog take 28 (8d6) thunder damage and are deafened for 1 minute, or take half damage and aren't deafened with a successful DC 14 Constitution saving throw. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is also stunned for 1 round. This ability doesn't function in an area under the effect of a silence spell. Very brittle material such as crystal may be shattered if it's within range, at the GM's discretion.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

