# Sacred Dog of Artemis

**description**: Hunters through and through, these creatures are more reminiscent of wild wolves than actual dogs. Their fur shines with a powerful glow, producing moonlight, and their eyes glow a deep silver. Out of all sacred dogs, these beasts boast the most powerful senses. Very few creatures can compare to them when it comes to tracking or finding prey. As such, anyone who dares to deface a temple of Artemis will be quickly tracked down, and tore down by the pack. Compared to every other sacred dog, Artemis’ creations act the most like the beast they are modeled after. They maintain the behavior of a wolf, aside from their duty to protect the temples they are tasked with, as they roam the wilderness around the temples of their goddess. They avoid contact with most people, with the exception of acolytes of the Goddess of the Hunt and young girls. The sacred dogs of Artemis will drop anything if it means protecting a young girl from danger, as is the will of their master. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The sacred dog has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no verbal or material components: At Will: detect poison and disease, hunter's mark 2/day each: absorb elements, entangle, locate animals or plants, locate object 1/day each: beast sense, pass without trace, spike growth Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Moonlight Arrow. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 100/300ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or the creature glows with an aura of dim light in a 10 feet radius around them for the next minute. As long as the creature is illuminated they cannot become invisible or take the hide action. A creature can spend an action to remove the clinging magic from themselves or from others. Lunar Enlightenment (Recharge 5-6). The sacred dog exhales silver radiant energy in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Shapechangers make the saving throw with disadvantage and revert to their original form on a failure. Bonus Actions Call of the Hunt (1/Day). The sacred dog calls for help from its fellow hunter spirits, summoning 1d4 wolves to its side. The wolves take their turn immediately after the sacred dog. Detect. The sacred dog makes a Wisdom (Perception) check.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

