# Sacred Dog of Ares

**description**: Brutal, bloodthirsty and savage would be the adjectives one would use to describe the God of War, and these could also easily apply to his dogs. These musclebound, armored bloodhounds are a common sight amongst battlefields where Spartans intend to claim victory. And despite their aggressive nature, these sacred dogs work with as much precision and discipline as any Spartan. When war is not at hand these beasts set out in search of violence, as long as the temple of their lord is not in danger. It is not uncommon to see the carcasses of monsters and other beasts by a temple of Ares, with trails of blood leading to a pack of feral celestials. Amongst the Spartan people everyone is aware that they must not disturb the beasts, lest they feel antagonized into starting a bloody fight. There are very few who’d dare do such a thing, and even fewer who’d succeed. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Brute. A m elee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the sacred dog hits with it (included in the attack). Reckless. At the start of its turn, the sacred dog can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Actions Multiattack. The sacred dog can make two bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Rain of Blades (Recharge 6). The sacred dog summons warrior spirits that throw swords, spears and axes from the peak of Mount Olympus. Three spaces that have a 10-feet radius within 60 feet of the sacred dog are struck by this barrage and each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning, piercing or slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Second Wind (Recharges after a short or long rest). As a bonus action, the sacred dog can regain 15 hit points. War's Howl (1/Day). Each creature of the sacred dog’s choice that is within 30 feet of it and can hear it, is able to use their reaction to perform an attack with advantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

