# Sacred Dog of Demeter

**description**: Demeter is a goddess that maintains the natural balance in the ecosystem of the world and her dogs are a part of that process. Their appearance reflects that much, as they appear to be at least partially made from plant matter. Different dogs will be made of different plants, but it’s not uncommon to see fruits or berries growing from the fur of these creatures. Protecting the nature around them and attacking creatures that don’t belong in the natural world, such as arcane experiments destructively roaming the wilds, are common duties of these celestials. As such, many monstrosities and rogue constructs end up as victims of the pack. Furthermore, protecting farmers and gardeners is a typical unspoken duty of the dogs of Demeter, as long as they tend to the beasts and the land respectfully. As a result of their innate connection to nature the dogs have a preference for the company of nature spirits, such as nymphs, dryads and satyrs, but they also enjoy the presence of friendly eladrin, wood elves and firbolg. Not to say that they ignore or dislike other humanoids on principle, but they feel safest with those who belong to the domain of nature. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: druidcraft, plant growth 3/day each: faerie fire, goodberry, spike growth 1/day each: awaken, ice storm, tree stride One with Nature. The sacred dog can communicate with all plants and animals, which can communicate back. Actions Multiattack. The sacred dog makes one bite attack and one vine strike. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant or poison damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Vine Strike. The sacred dog targets one creature that it can see within 60 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity or Strength saving throw or be pushed back 5 feet, knocked prone, and take 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and they are not knocked prone, but they are still pushed back 5 feet. Entangling Mass (Recharge 5-6). The sacred dog chooses two creatures on the ground that it can see within 30 feet of it. The targets must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained by entangling roots. A creature restrained by the roots can use its action to make a DC 15 Strength check, freeing itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

