# Sacred Dog of Hermes

**description**: Lean, thin and speedy are the dogs of Hermes, representing the domains of their creator flawlessly. These celestial beasts are covered in a beautiful bronze fur coat, with a travel vest fashioned from leather and cloth and filled with pouches capable of carrying letters, packages and all sorts of items. Lastly, their legs are decorated with winged bracers that allow them to take off into the sky. The dogs of the messenger of Olympus are the only celestials that leave the temples of their god for extended periods of time, as their secondary duty compels them to aid their creator. Acting as messengers for the most powerful beings on various planes of existence, these beasts have an strict work ethic appreciated by the entirety of the pantheon and the other powerful beings they perform courier work for. However, when they are not on the clock these celestial troublemakers might snatch shiny valuables off of the unaware, particularly from the wealthy. They have a mischievous and playful streak when left alone, not unlike their master. "Fast! Tricksy! Adorable! Not to play favourites... but this is the goodest of boys." -Fuzi Yuffentan, Wild Magic Sorcerer and Champion of Hermes Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Evasion. If the sacred dog is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the sacred dog instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: 2/day each: invisibility, haste, longstrider, pass without trace 1/day each: dimension door, freedom of movement, greater invisibility, mirror image Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an Attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The sacred dog deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 ft. of an ally of the sacred dog that isn't incapacitated and the sacred dog doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. Speedy Target. The movements of this sacred dog are so swift that it is almost invisible when in motion. If the sacred dog moves at least 10 feet on its turn, attack rolls against it have disadvantage until the start of its next turn unless the sacred dog is incapacitated or restrained. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Bonus Actions Cunning Action. On each of its turns, the sacred dog can use a bonus action to take the dash, disengage, or hide action. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. When an attacker that the sacred dog can see hits it with an attack, it can use its reaction to halve the attack's damage against it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

