# Sacred Dog of Hades

**description**: The dogs of Hades are a unique sort, as they actually were modeled after the Underworld's very own guard dog, Cerberus. This black-furred, shadow cloaked beast is diligent, loyal and incapable of being swayed from their duty by anyone other than their master. Two spectral heads rest at either side, mimicking the visage of the guard dog of the realm of Hades, and an armor made of bones protects their outer body. Their behavior is amongst the most disciplined of all sacred dogs, obeying the cleric that may have been assigned as their master for the time being, or to the sacred dog amongst them that has taken a leadership position. They enjoy spending their time close to the graveyards that surround the necropolis that is their temple, as they feel the most connected to the underworld through them. The only situation where a dog of Hades lashes out in anger is when they encounter an intelligent undead, such as a lich who deliberately sought undeath, as it represents a violation of the domain of their master. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Three heads. The sacred dog has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, deafened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. Actions Multiattack. The sacred dog makes three Bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) radiant or necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Control Undead. The sacred dog targets one undead creature it can see within 30 feet. The target must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target must obey the sacred dog's commands for the next 24 hours, or until the sacred dog uses this ability on another undead. An undead whose Challenge Rating is equal to or greater than the sacred dog's own Challenge Rating is immune to this effect. Underworld's Barrage (Recharge 5-6). The sacred dog roars and summons the spirits of the damned for a brutal attack in a 20-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Undead creatures make the saving throw with disadvantage. Bonus Actions Light-Eater. The sacred dog consumes all light in its vicinity. As a bonus action the sacred dog extinguishes all sources of light within 60 feet. If the light is magical, those created by a spell of 2nd level or lower are suppressed. Shadow Step. The sacred dog steps from one shadow into another. When the sacred dog is in dim light or darkness, as a bonus action it can teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. The sacred dog then has advantage on the first melee attack it makes before the end of its turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

