# Sacred Dog of Poseidon

**description**: The dogs of Poseidon are a combination of earth and sea creatures. They have 4 legs like a normal dog, but their tail is rather long and reminiscent of a dolphin's own tail. Their aquamarine fur is perpetually waving as if underwater and parts of their body are covered in coral-like armor. These dogs are adaptable, quick to react and difficult to repel, especially in the water. Out of all sacred dogs, the dogs of Poseidon are the most laid back whenever they are not in conflict. They enjoy swimming and playing with their pack, as well as with the acolytes of their creator, but they have a fierce temperament, not unlike the sea. If someone upsets them, they will not hesitate to fight. These beasts are very popular amongst underwater communities, like Merfolks and Tritons, who have seldom seen a real dog. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Amphibious. The sacred dog can breathe air and water. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: shape water 2/day each: control water, wall of water, water walking, watery sphere 1/day each: maelstrom Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an Attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Tidal Barrier. A swirling wave of seawater surrounds the sacred dog, crashing and rolling in a 15-foot radius around it. The area is difficult terrain for any creature except the sacred dog's allies. Actions Multiattack. The sacred dog makes two bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant or cold damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet and knocked prone. Tidal Wave (Recharge 5-6). The sacred dog conjures up a wave of water that crashes down on foes anywhere within 60 feet. The wave can be up to 30 feet long, up to 10 feet wide, and up to 10 feet tall. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (5d10) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone. The water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in its area and within 30 feet of it, and then it vanishes.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

