# Sacred Dog of Hecate

**description**: Spiritual, mysterious and representative of the wonders of magic, Hecate’s creations have a certain affinity to manipulate the weave of magic unlike any other sacred dog. They are very ethereal in appearance, with a coat of fur as pale as the mists that ooze from their bodies. With shiny silver eyes that hold a deep intelligence and secrets of magic only known to their mistress.And hanging from a beautiful ornate collar, decorated with unique arcane runes, is a key. Every sacred dog of the mistress of magic has one, but not even the most knowledgeable priest of Hecate would be able to tell you what their purpose is. These creatures are quiet, curious observers. They are rarely seen, but there are stories of them sneaking into the towers of accomplished mages to observe them. They do not act in a hostile manner to anyone, unless they are attacked first. Very commonly they are stoic, observant and quiet, not reflecting much emotion at all. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Limited Magic Immunity. The sacred dog can't be affected or detected by spells of 3rd level or lower unless it wishes to be. It has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an Attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: borrowed knowledge, detect magic, gaseous form, identify, find familiar, legend lore 3/day each: bless, dispel magic, magic missile (as a 3rd level spell), guiding bolt, shield 2/day each: banishment, fireball, spiritual weapon (as a 4th level spell) 1/day each: wall of force, teleportation circle Magic Consumption (3/Day). When the sacred dog uses its Devour the Arcane reaction successfully or dispels a spell, it heals damage equal to five times the spell's level. Master of Magic. The sacred dog has advantage when making Constitution saving throws to maintain concentration on a spell. Additionally, it can replace an attack of opportunity with the casting of a spell that targets a single creature. Magic Weapons. The sacred dog's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Reactions Devour the Arcane. When the sacred dog is targeted by a spell or included in a spell's area, it can attempt to undo that magic, canceling the spell and its effects as per the counterspell effect. The sacred dog does not need to see a spell to target it with this reaction, but it must be able to see at least some portion of an area or object affected by the spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

