# Sacred Dog of Hephaestus

**description**: The original sacred dogs were created by Hephaestus, and as such he has had a long time to keep improving them. These creatures sport a complete construct-like appearance, which is accentuated by several mechanisms that hold lava, demonstrating the power of fire that has been granted to them by their creator. These are the least animal-like in their behavior, spending great amounts of time unmoving from their place like a statue unless external stimuli peaks their interest. They keep quiet whenever an acolyte of the smith god is working on a creation of their own and always make sure that the forge is always ready for more metalwork. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Immutable Form. The sacred dog is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an Attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: produce flame, continual flame, fire bolt 2/day each: heat metal, hellish rebuke, fireball 1/day each: immolation Skin of the Forge. When the sacred dog takes bludgeoning, piercing or slashing damage, each creature within 5 feet of it takes 9 (2d8) fire damage Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) fire or radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Call to the Forge (1/Day). The sacred dog can magically summon a construct from the Forges of Hephaestus, as per the summon construct spell. Casting the spell in this way requires no concentration from the sacred dog.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

