# Sacred Dog of Dionysus

**description**: The dogs of Dionysus represent quite the contrast, just like their master. They enjoy the revelry as much as the most hedonistic of men, yet they represent a terrifying aspect of godly domains when their wrath has been unleashed. Madness, confusion and carnage is a common sight whenever these celestials have been antagonized. However, when combat isn’t a factor, the beasts will readily jump, play and cuddle with all the people present at a celebration. It is not uncommon for bottles of wine or casks of ale to go missing and find a pack of these sacred dogs greedily lapping at the alcohol in hopes of becoming as drunk as the rest of the people around them. Although they are notably immune to poisons, they seem to be able to enjoy alcoholic beverages just as well as the next human. It may not be a stretch to say that fine wine is their favorite treat. Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. "It's always great to find a dog at a party. Even better if the dog is just as drunk as you." -Andaniis Lusavorel, Drunken Master Monk and Champion of Dionysus Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Aura of Revelry. Music and cheering emanates around the sacred dog. At the start of its turn, any creature of its choice within 30 feet must make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or become charmed and start performing a wild dance number. While dancing the creature is incapacitated and cannot move away from the spot it started dancing in. At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw. A creature that succeeds on the save becomes immune to any sacred dog's aura of revelry for the next 24 hours . Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: 2/day each: crown of madness, dissonant whispers (as a 2nd level spell), phantasmal force, wrathful smite (as a bonus action) 1/day each: fear, phantasmal killer, tasha's mind whip (as a 3rd-level spell) Magic Resistance. The sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant, poison or psychic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Toxic Madness (Recharge 5-6). The sacred dog unleashes a wave of madness and poison in a 15-foot radius around itself. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) poison and 13 (3d8) psychic damage and become poisoned for 1 minute on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. While poisoned in this way the creature is afflicted with short-term madness. At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another Constitution saving throw. Short-Term Madness d100 Short-Term Madness 01–20 The character retreats into their mind and becomes paralyzed. The effect ends if the character takes any damage. 21–30 The character becomes incapacitated and spends the duration screaming, laughing, or weeping. 31–40 The character becomes frightened and must use their action and movement each round to flee from the source of the fear. 41–50 The character begins babbling and is incapable of normal speech or spellcasting. 51–60 The character must use their action each round to attack the nearest creature. 61–70 The character experiences vivid hallucinations and has disadvantage on ability checks. 71–75 The character does whatever anyone tells them to do that isn’t obviously self-destructive. 76–80 The character experiences an overpowering urge to eat something strange such as dirt, slime, or offal. 81–90 The character is stunned. 91–100 The character falls unconscious.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

