# Sacred Dog of Apollo

**description**: The dogs of Apollo are some of the friendliest amongst all the divine creations. They are golden-furred creatures with a gold and a red eye, representing the essence of the sun as light and fire. They are often adorned with beautiful collars bearing the symbol of Apollo. They enjoy frolicking out in the sunlight and listening to music, however that doesn't make them any less dangerous than their brethren. These dogs will approach musicians and performers in order to get their attention, trying to get them to perform at the temples of Apollo or play with them. Additionally, they will approach the sick and injured that travel by their temples, and as long as no evil or ill intentions are perceived, they will swiftly alleviate them from any wounds or disease that may plague them. However, when these dogs get ready to fight they can produce an aura of sunlight around them. This has led to them earning a reputation as being the perfect companions for warriors going up against vampires or many underdark dwellers and monsters that detest the light of the sun. The guardians of Apollo's temple are actually talented dancers. You should visit just to watch them sometime. -Savafyn Tiaurelle, Hunter Ranger and Champion of Apollo Sacred Dogs The gods always keep their most sacred temples guarded. And the guards of such places come in many forms: devout mortals who willingly protect this sacred space, beasts that represent the deity's domain or even celestial creatures serving under the banner of the gods. However, one of the most loyal and competent guards under the banner of Olympus and beyond are the sacred dogs. These creatures originally served Hephaestus as guards on his temple in Mount Edna, but the gods have a keen eye for usefulness. As such they chose to make their own, with the unique traits and qualities that they appreciate most. The nature of the sacred dog will be wildly different, depending on which deity created them. The personality, temperament and tactics of a dog created by Zeus will be completely dissimilar from that of a dog created by Aphrodite. Guardians and Companions. Sacred Dogs live within the temple of their creator, protecting its integrity from any possible threat. Typically they form a pack of three or four at a time, but on a rare occasion a single dog will partner up with an acolyte of their deity on quests to serve their master. Divine Nature. The dogs are sustained by the will of their creators. As such they do not age and don’t require sleep, breathing, food or water, though they might enjoy partaking in the latter two. And if a sacred dog were to be slain in battle, a cleric serving their creator can bring them back to life by performing a ritual achieved through communion with their deity. Celestials Celestials can be found easily amongst certain places of power like particularly big godly temples. The protectors of their master’s centers of worship are known by most people who live close to such a location. Traits Divine Awareness. The sacred dog knows if it hears a lie. Magic Resistance. T he sacred dog has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Protector's Instinct. If the sacred dog is entering combat against a clear threat to its sacred ground, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Pack Tactics. The sacred dog has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sacred dog's allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and the ally isn't Incapacitated. Spellcasting. The sacred dog's Spellcasting Ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At Will: light, sacred flame 2/day each: cure wounds (as a 2nd level spell), guiding bolt 1/day each: daylight, flame strike, spirit guardians Symbol of the Sun. The sacred dog glows brightly, producing bright sunlight within 20 feet around it and 10 feet of dim light beyond that. The sacred dog can suppress this light as a bonus action. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Solar Flare (Recharge 5-6). The sacred dog unleashes radiant energy in a 15-foot radius. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, being blinded and taking 22 (4d10) radiant damage on a failed save. On a successful save the creatures take half as much damage and are not blinded . Healing Touch (3/Day). The sacred dog touches another creature. The target magically regains 17 (3d8 + 4) hit points and is freed from any curse, disease, poison, blindness, or deafness.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

