# Saeshir Caldeshi, The Dark Alchemist

**description**: Though a genius scientist, Saeshir Caldeshi chose not to make a name for himself as an accomplished alchemist, instead seeking out more morbid sources of data. His obsessive experimentation with caustic and reactive chemicals on organic flesh led to an accident that took his legs. However, even this did not dissuade him from his studies. Commonfolk fear sightings of him, worried he will melt them with his acids or offer them lethal potions, though these may just be boogeyman-style rumors. His recent experimentation, testing volatile acids on humanoids of extraplanar lineage, has been considered a grossly unethical venture by most of his peers. Some say they’ve spotted him following people home at night, but these reports haven’t been confirmed. In any case, the city watch considers him a suspect in most unsolved disappearances and tries to keep a close eye on his activity. Description. Saeshir Cladeshi is a stout human with pale skin and unkempt dark hair. He wears simple robes and a dirty brown apron splattered with stains. Both of his legs have been replaced with simple stone prosthetic pegs below the knee. He usually carries a large pack with a variety of chemical apperati, such as bottles, phials, and tubes that leak endlessly at his feet. His tool of choice is an old dagger, terrifyingly pocked and jagged from exposure to caustic acids. Personality. Saeshir is rarely one for much conversation, preferring to use quick and concise speech to get his needs across. He constantly scrawls notes and interrupts others to ask questions, likely driven by his scientific tendencies. He has remarkably little regard for the safety of others, and doesn’t hesitate to make requests that most may consider appallingly Dangerous II. He works alone in his secret laboratory, and treats those who work for him with indifference. Plot Hooks Disappearances. The city watch is concerned about a string of disappearances where only odd stains are left behind, and Saeshir is the prime suspect. The party will need to track down and subdue the Dangerous II alchemist. Data Collection. A wealthy nobleman, Saeshir in disguise, reaches out to the party asking them to bring him his long-lost ward. The party is tasked with bringing a young child to him, though that child's family is confused, having never heard of this arrangement. Hunted. A member of the party keeps noticing a figure following from a distance. At night, their room is broken into by melting the door’s lock as Saeshir tries to kidnap and experiment on the character. Tactics Saeshir tries to stay just out of reach, splashing acids and using his terrain-affecting abilities to stay out of harm’s way while taunting his foes to risk themselves in approaching. With little to protect him from longer-range attacks, he does his best to stay in tight alleys or otherwise enclosed spaces to limit his foes’ ability to strike from a distance. When forced out in the open, he flees if possible, or, failing that, takes enemies to use as shields. Traits Acid Splashes. Flasks of strong acids leak around Saeshir, creating a localized hazard. Whenever a creature attacks Saeshir while within 5 ft. of him, it takes 7 (2d6) acid damage unless it chooses to make the attack with disadvantage. Additionally, the area around Saeshir is considered difficult terrain for all creatures other than himself. Eye for Danger. Saeshir has advantage on saving throws against damaging spells and effects he can see. Duck and Cover. Saeshir has learned to optimally use cover to his advantage. If he would normally have half cover he instead has three-quarters cover, and if he would normally have threequarters cover he instead has full cover. Actions Multiattack. Saeshir makes two attacks. Dark Alchemist’s Acid. Melee or Ranged Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft or range 15/60 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) acid damage, and each creature within 5 ft. of the target must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 4 (1d8) acid damage. Dark Alchemist’s Fire. Melee or Ranged Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft or range 15/60, one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) fire damage, and the target must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or catch fire. A creature hit by this attack in the same turn in which it takes acid damage dealt by Saeshir must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be sickened until the end of its next turn as it inhales superheated acid fumes. A creature that is on fire takes 3 (1d6) fire damage at the start of each of its turns until it or another creature takes an action to put it out. This flame can’t be extinguished with water but can be smothered. Oversized Flask (2/Rest). Saeshir tosses a huge flask of acid at a point within 30 ft. of him. Each creature within a 15-foot radius centered on that point must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 27 (6d8) acid damage and be inflicted with a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, “Acid Burns”. While Injured in this way, a creature’s Injury thresholds are reduced by 5 in any round in which they take acid damage. Additionally, the targeted area becomes difficult terrain if it was made of wood or stone. Grabfoot Glue (3/Rest). Saeshir throws down a patch of potent, clear glue in a 10-foot square within 5 ft. of him. The glue is invisible to creatures that do not have a passive Perception of 16 or higher. Any creature other than Saeshir that enters the area must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the glue. A creature restrained in this way can attempt a DC 16 Strength check as an action to break free. A creature can be restrained again if it enters the area again, or if it steps into another part of the area. The glue can’t be removed with water or acid, but becomes useless after 10 minutes.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

