# Sahuagin-Illithid Hybrid

**description**: A beast, humanoid, giant or monstrosity can become an illithid hybrid. When a creature becomes an illithid hybrid, it retains all its statistics except as noted below. Senses. The illithid hybrid gains darkvision with a radius of 120 feet. Languages. The illithid hybrid speaks Deep Speech in addition to any other languages it knows, and gains telepathy out to a range of 120 feet. Magic Resistance. The illithid hybrid gains advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. New Action: Tentacles. If the creature had a bite attack, it loses that attack. The illithid hybrid gains a tentacles attack with an attack bonus of the creature’s Intelligence modifier + its proficiency bonus. The tentacles deal psychic damage equal to the illithid hybrids Intelligence modifier plus additional psychic damage dependent upon its size. Size Damage Tiny 5 (2d4) Small 7 (2d6) Medium 9 (2d8) Large 11 (2d10) Huge 13 (2d12) Gargantuan 21 (2d20) If the target is the same size or smaller than the illithid hybrid, it is grappled (escape DC equal 10 + Strength modifier). The target must also succeed on a DC 12 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until the grapple ends. New Action: Extract Brain. The illithid hybrid makes an attack roll with the same bonus as the Tentacles attack against one incapacitated humanoid grappled by the illithid hybrid. The attack deals 5 × the damage dictated by the table above. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the illithid hybrid kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain. The following statblock is an example of the template applied to a sahuagin. Traits Blood Frenzy. The sahuagin has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn’t have all its hit points. Limited Amphibiousness. The sahuagin can breathe air and water, but it needs to be submerged at least once every 4 hours to avoid suffocating. Magic Resistance. The sahuagin has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Shark Telepathy. The sahuagin can magically command any shark within 120 feet of it, using a limited telepathy. Actions Multiattack. The sahuagin makes two melee attacks: one with its tentacles and one with its claws or spear. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) slashing damage. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage, or 5 (1d8 + 1) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack. Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d8 + 1) psychic damage. If the target is the same size or smaller than the sahuagin, it is grappled (escape DC 11). The target must also succeed on a DC 12 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until the grapple ends. Extract Brain. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid grappled by the sahuagin. Hit: 45 (10d8) psychic damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the sahuagin kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (sahuagin)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 20544

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

