# Sapphire Dragon Wyrmling

**description**: Sapphire dragons don't often get along with followers of Lolth, but one phrase seems to dissipate a lot of tension between them: “Spiders? Yes, please!” -Fizban Sapphire Dragons The thunderous clash of conflict is part of the very nature of sapphire dragons. Militant and territorial, they defend their lairs fiercely, ambushing intruders and plotting assaults against their rivals. The sonic pulse of their breath weapon sows weakness, leaving the victims unable to fight back. Luminous Blue Sapphire dragons' scales and wing membranes show varied shades of blue, ranging from the light tones of a spring sky to the rich, crystalline azure of sapphire gems and compressed glacial ice. In the light, the scales glitter and shine like luminous starbursts. The dragons' psionic nature is evident in the horn and bone structures of their bodies. Their tail barbs and horn tips are all separate pieces, but they float in place, held aloft by psychic energy while the dragons live. These levitating horns and spines shift slightly with the dragons' moods, bobbing in amusement or flaring with anger. Art of War The warlike sapphire dragons devise strategies and ambushes based on their ability to maneuver underground. A sapphire dragon often refrains from striking immediately, preferring to assess intruders first in order to devise the most advantageous approach to dealing with them. Sapphire dragons watch for signs of Aberrations and other creatures corrupted by the Far Realm. They frequently ally with emerald dragons, drawing on their kin's knowledge of occult phenomena to track the influence of the Far Realm. Armed with that knowledge, sapphire dragons stamp out alien influence before it spreads. People who dwell or delve deep beneath the earth can easily find themselves at odds with a sapphire dragon if they cross into the dragon's territory. But sapphire dragons sometimes forge peaceful relationships with rock gnomes or deep gnomes, relying on these folk to help protect the territory surrounding their lairs. Martial Hoards Sapphire dragons' favorite prizes are weapons and armor, records of military history and tactics, and magic items that protect against psychic damage or mental intrusion. The centerpiece of a sapphire dragon's hoard is usually a cataloged, orderly collection of war gear, which can contain ancient relics of immense power. A Sapphire Dragon's Lair Sapphire dragons make their homes in extensive cave systems. As they grow older, they make increasingly complex renovations to their lairs, using their inherent magic and natural tunneling abilities to great effect. Eventually, a sapphire dragon's lair is a dizzying honeycomb of hidden passages, deceptively thin walls, and secret chambers that allow the dragon to travel from one end to the other unseen by intruders. The most secure lairs might feature no accessible entrances or exits at all, with the dragon relying on tunneling or shaping stone to come and go. The challenge rating of a legendary sapphire dragon increases by 1 when it's encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon can take one of the following lair actions; the dragon can't take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Awesome Thunder. A thunderous detonation of sound that can be heard up to 300 feet away surrounds one creature in the lair that the dragon can see. That creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 13 (3d8) thunder damage and be stunned until the end of its next turn. Beguiling Whisper. The dragon telepathically whispers to one creature within range of the dragon's telepathy. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the dragon until initiative count 20 on the next round. A creature charmed in this way obeys to the best of its ability any command the dragon issues that isn't directly harmful to the creature. Stone Passage. The dragon touches a section of stone up to 30 feet in any dimension. The dragon can shape the stone to open or close a passage through a wall, as long as the wall is less than 10 feet thick. Regional Effects The region surrounding a legendary sapphire dragon's lair is altered by the dragon's magic, creating one or more of the following effects: Crystal Profusion. Natural stone within 6 miles of the lair grows plentiful crystal formations and veins of sapphire gemstones, particularly underground. Stony Sight. Natural stone within 6 miles of the lair is a conduit for the dragon's psionic presence. As an action, the dragon can cast the clairvoyance spell, requiring no spell components and targeting any natural stone formation in that region. Telepathic Enhancement. The dragon's psionic energy enhances the mental powers of other creatures. Any creature capable of telepathic communication has its telepathy range doubled while within 1 mile of the lair. This includes creatures with innate telepathy and magical telepathy such as the Rary's telepathic bond spell. Thriving Wildlife. Giant spiders (a sapphire dragon's favorite prey) are attracted to the area within 6 miles of the lair and settle there in large numbers. If the dragon dies, the population of giant spiders in the region returns to normal levels over the course of 1d10 days. The enhancement of telepathic abilities ends immediately. The existing abundance of crystals and sapphires remains, but new ones form at a normal rate. Traits Spider Climb. The dragon can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Tunneler. The dragon can burrow through solid rock at half its burrowing speed and can leave a 5-foot-diameter tunnel in its wake. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) thunder damage. Debilitating Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon exhales a pulse of high-pitched, nearly inaudible sound in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 22 (4d10) thunder damage and is incapacitated until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated. Spellcasting (Psionics). The dragon casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability: 1/day each: alarm , Tenser's floating disk

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: dragon (gem)
- Alignment: typically lawful neutral
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Fizban's Treasury of Dragons

