# Sard

**description**: An immense, gnarled tree awoken with raw, primal power by one of the fey Eldest of the First World, this monster—one of the legendary Tane—skitters on huge, spidery roots and thrashes its branches as fiery lightning courses within its blackened bark. It’s terrifying abilities and visage makes it appear as a living manifestation of the violent clash between ancient forest and stormy sky. Those who claim that there is but a single sard in existence are better classified as wishful thinkers than scholars, but fortunately, these deadly monsters have never been known to travel in groups or ally with others of their own kind. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The sard’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: control weather, tree stride 1/day: chain lightning, storm of vengeance Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the sard fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Planar Acclimation. The sard always treats the plane it is currently on as its native plane. Splintering Death. When the sard dies, its body explodes in a blast of lightning and splinters. Each creature within 30 feet of it must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) lightning damage and 35 (10d6) piercing damage on a failure, or half as much on a success. Any creature that takes piercing damage is also exposed to sard venom, requiring a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. Creatures that fail this saving throw are poisoned for 1 minute and take 10 (3d6) lightning damage at the start of each of their turns as long as they are poisoned. Affected creatures can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the poisoned effect on a success. Actions Multiattack. The sard makes two attacks: one with its vine, and one with its trunk, or it makes two thorns attacks. Thorns. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 180/360 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (3d10+6) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. The poisoned creature takes 10 (3d6) lightning damage at the start of each of their turns, and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success. Trunk. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8+10) bludgeoning damage and 4 (1d8) lightning damage. Vine. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8+10) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. The poisoned creature takes 10 (3d6) lightning damage at the start of each of their turns, and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success. Legendary Actions The sard can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The sard regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Trunk. The sard attacks with its trunk. Trample (Costs 2 Actions). The sard moves at least 20 feet in a straight line and can move through Huge or smaller creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. The sard makes a trunk attack against all creatures and objects it moves through; any creature hit must succeed at a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If a creature in the sard’s path is prone, the sard can make a stomp attack against it as a bonus action. Lightning-Struck Curse (Costs 3 actions). A target creature within 60 feet must succeed a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or be magically cursed. Until the curse ends, the creature either loses its lightning resistance, or gains vulnerability to lightning damage if it does not have lightning resistance. The curse lasts until removed by remove curse or other magic.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: plant
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

