# Sarlu

**description**: Sarlu have insinuated themselves throughout the multiverse in order to expand their criminal empires. Originally hailing from an oceanic world, they have adapted quite well to dry land and can move about more quickly than native land-walkers due to their sinuous undulations. However, Sarlu actually prefer the comfort of their mobile aquariums from which they direct their mental attacks and conduct business via telepathic conversations. Foolhardy adventures have often assumed these aquariums represent a sign of weakness or limitation, only to swiftly learn to their detriment (or demise) that a sarlu can perfectly move beyond its aquarium. Sarlu are roughly eight inches in diameter from end to end and about 20 feet in length, though this is disguized by the fact that the creatures tend to coil themselves into irregular corkscrews. They only weigh 100 pounds. Arrogant Manipulators. Sarlu can read the minds of virtually all beings they converse with, and secretly use this advantage to negotiate deals in their favor. Their unreadable expressions also allow them to pretend they’re making unwanted concessions without fear of being called on their claims. They delight in the unease they bring out in opponents (as sarlu never think of others as their equals or partners), especially when such individuals attempt to read their minds, as well. Sarlu have gained a frightful reputation throughout the worlds in which they operate, and often that reputation makes it unnecessary to engage in their typical means of intimidation. Ultimately, sarlu wish to sink their tendrils into all underworld activity, but they occasionally participate in legitimate businesses, usually in an attempt to corner the market on a certain commodity so they can demand incredible prices for their services. War Profiteers. The war between the Hegemony and the benign agents of the Accord has created a favorable business climate for the sarlu. Their primary source of income includes the sale of weapons at a premium, and they earn plenty of money by selling information to both sides, as well. Despite overtures by the Hegemony to join their side, including promises of considerable power and wealth when the war ends, sarlu have remained neutral. They never hesitate to throw in with the Hegemony if a confrontation ultimately tips the balance in their favor, but sarlu always wish to keep their options open. This proves especially easy since they’ve earned favors from both sides. Dark whispers claim the sarlu prefer the current status quo, since a victorious Hegemony would undoubtedly seek to purge the sarlu as they tighten their grip on the multiverse and a similarly rewarded Accord would do the same to make the multiverse a safer place for everyone. If the sarlu can eventually arrange for both sides to wipe each other out and leave a power vacuum which they can then fill, all the better. Familial Obligation. Itinerant beings, sarlu rarely return to their own homeworld after leaving it behind, and only roughly do so once every decade to spawn. This asexual process produces a dozen or more mindless offspring, which fight each other until a lone survivor remains. The juvenile sarlu then consumes its spawn-mates and grows prodigiously larger in size and mental acuity over the course of the following year. When it finally reaches maturity, the progeny then seeks out its parent for assistance in mentoring its first profitable scheme, after which it sets off on its own. Sarlu bear no familial obligation beyond this period of induction and often compete with one another thereafter. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatDescriptionIndent, li.StatDescriptionIndent, div.StatDescriptionIndent {mso-style-name:"Stat Description Indent"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

