# Satyr

**description**: Twixt day and night the spirits goad me on They pine for ages past when hearts were pure Against all reason now they seem unsure They laugh and scream between mine ears anon. Now fill my cup not once, not twice, but thrice With flagon’s brim upon my lips I dance Let unseen pixies toss their gowns askance While I, the Carnal King, indulge my vice. With folded boughs, the treants take their leave As merry damsels’ corsets come undone My song doth stir them like a summer breeze They fill mine empty cup without reprieve. The sun becomes the moon becomes the sun I while away the hours as I please. —Sonnet of a Naughty Satyr Satyrs are raucous fey that frolic in wild forests, driven by curiosity and hedonism in equal measure. Satyrs resemble stout male humans with the furry lower bodies and cloven hooves of goats. Horns sprout from their heads, ranging in shape from a pair of small nubs to large, curling rams’ horns. They typically sport facial hair. Hedonistic Revelers. Satyrs crave the strongest drink, the most fragrant spices, and the most dizzying dances. A satyr feels starved when it can’t indulge itself, and it goes to great lengths to sate its desires. It might kidnap a fine minstrel to hear lovely songs, sneak through a well-defended garden to gaze upon a beautiful lad or lass, or infiltrate a palace to taste the finest food in the land. Satyrs allow no festivity to pass them by. They partake in any holiday they’ve heard of. Civilizations of the world have enough festivals and holy days among them to justify nonstop celebration. Inebriated on drink and pleasure, satyrs give no thought to the consequences of the hedonism they incite in others. They leave such creatures mystified at their own behavior. Such revelers might have to scrounge for excuses to explain their disordered state to parents, employers, family, or friends. Variant: Satyr Pipes A satyr might carry panpipes that it can play to create magical effects. Usually, only one satyr in a group carries such pipes. If a satyr has pipes, it gains the panpipes action, documented in Actions below. Traits Magic Resistance : The satyr has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Ram : Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (2d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage. Shortsword : Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1 d6 + 3) piercing damage. Shortbow : Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. Panpipes (Variant) : The satyr plays its pipes and chooses one of the following magical effects: a charming melody, a frightening strain, or a gentle lullaby. Any creature within 60 feet of the satyr that can hear the pipes must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be affected as described below. Other satyrs and creatures that can’t be charmed are unaffected. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to these panpipes for the next 24 hours. Charming Melody. The creature is charmed by the satyr for 1 minute. If the satyr or any of its companions harms the creature, the effect on it ends immediately. Frightening Strain. The creature is frightened for 1 minute. Gentle Lullaby. The creature falls asleep and is unconscious for 1 minute. The effect ends if the creature takes damage or if someone takes an action to shake the creature awake.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Source: MM1
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 2
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Monster Manual

