# Savior Lumen

**description**: Dozens of miniature angels with crow wings pack together, emitting a warm glow. Though many celestials relish grand battles against evil, few stay behind to help in the aftermath of battles or celestial judgment. Despite celestial victories against the forces of darkness, there are always innocents whose homes and lives become collateral damage. These victims care most about surviving to the next day and not any grand design. Seeing these lives crushed in the clashes of good and evil, the tiny lumen take it upon themselves help. With disasters both large and small, natural and supernatural, the lumen stay busy helping societies rebuild. Celestial Helpers. As immortals, lumen are attuned to catastrophes in the making, reaching the site of a disaster scant minutes after calamity strikes. The lumen search for victims trapped in collapsed, burning, or flooded buildings, and they assist mortals engaged in lifesaving tasks. Their power and size make them uniquely suited for finding lost creatures and accessing dangerous locations larger mortals can't reach. Confused Encounters. The creatures saved by lumen rarely remember their saviors' identity. Because the lumen prefer their anonymity, they cloud the minds of those they rescue; most survivors believe they saw nothing more than glowing or flashing lights, which explains their name of “savior lights” or “savior lumen.” Even creatures who remember their rescues often misidentify the lumen as cherubic faeries. Amphibious. The savior lumen swarm can breathe air and water. Fleeting Memory. When the savior lumen swarm leaves a creature's sight, that creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or remember the swarm only as softly glowing lights. Illumination . The savior lumen swarm sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. Immortal Nature . The savior lumen swarm doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Magic Resistance. The swarm has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Swarm . The savior lumen can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny celestial. The swarm can't regain hp or gain temporary hp. Team Effort . The savior lumen swarm is considered to be a single Large creature for the purpose of determining its carrying capacity, and it has advantage on Strength checks made to push, pull, lift, or break objects. Actions Flurry of Tools. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 0 ft., one target in the swarm's space. Hit: 10 (4d4) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (4d4) piercing damage and 10 (4d4) slashing damage, or 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage plus 5 (2d4) piercing damage and 4 (2d4) slashing damage if the swarm has half of its hp or fewer. Dismantle . The savior lumen swarm destroys up to a 5-foot cube of nonmagical debris, structure, or object that isn't being worn or carried. Spellcasting . The savior lumen swarm casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: floating disk, mending, spare the dying 3/day each: gentle repose, knock, sending 1/day each: locate creature, passwall

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Swarm of Tiny Celestials
- Alignment: Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

