# Scanlan Shorthalt

**description**: Bard extraordinaire, champion of the Knowing Mentor, and braggadocious hero of all Exandria, Scanlan Shorthalt is the kind of adventurer who will never let you forget his name. He’s personally ensured that the bards spreading his legend across the world will sing his praises for decades to come. After the Epilogue. Scanlan has always been a self-centered, showboating braggart, but it doesn’t mean he doesn’t have a heart. These days, friendship and family mean more to him than anything, even if he’s still not very good at showing it. Following the defeat of the Whispered One, Scanlan eventually proposed to his long-pursued sweetheart, Pike Trickfoot, and they were married in a grand ceremony. The duo had a pair of children, one named Juniper (Juni) and the other named Wilhand’ildan (Wax). When the children were grown and in school, Pike and Scanlan amicably divorced and went their separate ways, remaining good friends—and occasional lovers—but content to follow their own paths. Scanlan is approaching a century of life, but as a long-lived gnome, his looks are much as they were in his adventuring days except for his slowly receding hairline and the slight belly he’s developed. Vanity dies slowly, though, and he hides even this modest amount of aging with a comb-over, frequent use of his trademark beret, and well-placed illusion magic when he needs to look portrait perfect. Scanlan likes to sing songs of the Vox Machina days to crowded houses in cities across Tal’Dorei. He spends his winters in Ank’Harel, where he and his daughter Kaylie operate their high-end trading business, Meatman Imports & Sexports. It’s a good job that keeps him constantly traveling around Exandria, suiting his interest in seeking out new people and places around the world—and for new performance venues and places to get into trouble. Also, he has a mustache now. He thinks it makes him look distinguished. Vox Machina Heroes. Scoundrels. Legends. Dumbasses. The legacy of the adventuring party Vox Machina is a complicated one. Over the course of their adventures, they’ve selflessly saved the lives of thousands of people in Tal’Dorei, Wildemount, Issylra, and beyond. Of course, there are also countless tales of individuals they’ve bullied, threatened, insulted, or otherwise needlessly antagonized throughout those same adventures. These legendary figures grew from a band of dime-a-dozen sellswords in the swamp burgh of Stilben to gods-blessed warriors whose actions might have saved all of Exandria from a future of undead tyranny. The deeds of Vox Machina are sung by bards across Tal’Dorei, often exaggerating those already belief-defying tales of gods and monsters and magic. But though their legend has grown wild and unruly, the members of Vox Machina are still people. More than twenty years have passed since their last great campaign. Most of them are still alive, and the lives of these heroes have changed—in big ways and in smaller, more subtle ones. Those among them who age have softer bodies and lines on their faces. Those among them who don’t age still show the weight of the world upon their shoulders. By and large, the members of Vox Machina have set aside weapons, armor, and spells in favor of more subtle ways of helping others. Some lead the lands they were born to lead. Others have been elected to the Tal’Dorei Council, shaping the fate of the continent’s people with quiet wisdom rather than blades and battle cries. Still, each member of this legendary band of adventurers would take up arms again in an instant if it meant protecting those they care for the most. And the Vestiges of Divergence, whose power they unlocked in the battles against the Cinder King and the Whispered One, are still within their grasp. The following stat blocks are here for GMs to use if their players encounter a member of Vox Machina—hopefully as an ally or a "quest giver," for woe betide anyone who encounters these legendary heroes as a foe. These statistics don’t represent the full extent of the characters’ abilities as 20th-level adventurers, but have been streamlined to make them easier for the Game Master to run. Traits Gnome Cunning. Scanlan has advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws against magic. Focused. Scanlan has advantage on Constitution saving throws made to maintain concentration on spells. Special Equipment. Scanlan wields Mythcarver , wears +2 studded leather armor of acid resistance and a ring of protection with a +2 bonus, and carries a hat of disguise and a wand of magic missiles . Spellcasting. Scanlan is a 20th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following bard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): mage hand, message, minor illusion, vicious mockery 1st level (4 slots): healing word, thunderwave 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, hold person, invisibility, suggestion 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, lightning bolt, stinking cloud 4th level (3 slots): dimension door, polymorph, resilient sphere 5th level (3 slots): arcane hand, dominate person, modify memory, seeming 6th level (2 slots): eyebite 7th level (2 slots): magnificent mansion, reverse gravity 8th level (1 slot): dominate monster 9th level (1 slot): true polymorph Toughness. Scanlan has an additional 40 hit points. Actions Mythcarver. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage and 3 (1d6) force damage. Bonus Actions Arcane Fist (8th Level). Melee Spell Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 45 (10d8) force damage. Scanlan can use this bonus action only while concentrating on the arcane hand spell. Bardic Inspiration (6/Short Rest). Scanlan grants a Bardic Inspiration die to one creature other than himself within 60 feet of him who can hear him. Once within the next 10 minutes, the creature can roll a d12 and add the number rolled to one ability check, attack roll, or saving throw it makes. When Scanlan uses this ability, he gains advantage on attack rolls with Mythcarver until the end of his turn. Healing Word (5th Level). Scanlan casts healing word , restoring 18 (5d4 + 6) hit points to himself or another creature he can see within 60 feet of him. Reactions Cutting Words. When a creature Scanlan can see within 60 feet of him makes an attack roll, an ability check, or a damage roll, he can expend a use of Bardic Inspiration to roll a d12 and subtract the number rolled from the creature’s roll. The creature also has disadvantage on its next saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: humanoid (gnome)
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

