# Scarab, Suncatcher

**description**: The immense scarab is a radiant gold and green. As its elytra open, colorful wings unfurl, and a loud droning fills the air. The suncatcher scarab gets its name from the stained-glass pattern on its wings, which cast colorful shadows when it flies overhead. Unfortunately, such shadows often presage destruction. Product of Godly Intervention. This massive insect is a relic of a bygone age, though details are scant. Some believe it was once the avatar of a god, others say it was created to end a now dead civilization, and some societies claim it helped their ancestors triumph in an all-but-forgotten war. Now, however, the suncatcher scarab is a simple, if large, insect. Destructive Force. A suncatcher scarab is usually remains underground, tending its boulder-sized eggs or slumbering for decades at a time. However, hunger or natural disasters such as an earthquake can disturb it, making it burrow for the surface. Once exposed to the sun, the scarab goes on a rampage, destroying anything in its path and devouring just about anything to sate its omnivorous hunger. If not stopped, the beast eventually tires and returns to its underground lair, where it remains for decades before returning to the surface. Discordant Drone. Creatures within 15 feet of the suncatcher scarab can't hear each other's spoken words and can't cast spells with verbal components. Siege Monster. The suncatcher scarab deals double damage to objects and structures. Unstoppable. Moving through difficult terrain doesn't cost the suncatcher scarab extra movement, and its speed can't be reduced. Actions Multiattack. The suncatcher scarab makes three Bite attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of its next turn. Burrowing Burst. If the suncatcher scarab burrows at least 20 feet as part of its movement, it can use this action to emerge in a space that contains one or more other creatures. Each of those creatures and each creature within 10 of the scarab's space must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 27 (6d8) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and is pushed up to 10 feet out of the scarab's space into an unoccupied space of the creature's choice. If no unoccupied space is within range, the creature instead falls prone in the scarab's space. The area within 10 feet of the scarab's space then becomes difficult terrain. Wing Beat (Recharge 5-6). The suncatcher scarab rapidly beats its wings, releasing sound or light in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. The effect depends on if the elytra is closed or open: Closed Elytra. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) thunder damage, is pushed up to 15 feet away from the scarab, and is knocked prone. On a successful one, a creature takes half the damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. Open Elytra. On a failed save, a creature takes 35 (10d6) radiant damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. On a successful one, a creature takes half the damage and isn't blinded.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

