# Scylla

**description**: A monster of the sea, which has made its hunting grounds alongside Charybdis in a narrow channel. Her origins are murky at best, with a mysterious parentage that was rumored to come from some of the oldest immortals. It is even rumored that once upon a time she was a beautiful nymph who was loved by the sea-god Glaucus. But a rival in love, the witch Circe, cursed Scylla by turning her into a hideous monstrosity. Twelve legs that extended into claws that grip onto stone, six massively long necks that stretch out from the cliffside in order to snatch her prey from any nearby ship’s deck. Serpentine heads that resemble horrible beasts from the deep stretch out, guided by the horrifying visage of what at one time might have been a beautiful immortal spirit. She is most infamous for her part in the journey of Odysseus. As he was preparing to cross the sea to reach his home, he reached the channel that Scylla and Charybdis settled in. With no other choice, he made the choice to stick closer to Scylla, as that would be the option that would create the least casualties. Odyseeus made it through the brief encounter, but half his crew definitely didn’t. Scylla has no master to serve, no gods to pray to or loved ones to adore. A brutal, efficient and cold-blooded predator that gazes down at the waves and the unfortunate sailors that approach her abode. Strike from the Shadows. Scylla prefers to use the cover of night or seaborn fog to catch her prey by surprise. Scylla’s Lair The lair of Scylla is a narrow channel in the Aegean Sea. The channel is big enough for a ship to go through, but not without encountering either Scylla or Charybdis. Lair Actions On Initiative count 20 (losing Initiative ties), Scylla takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Scylla can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: A powerful wave crashes through Scylla’s lair. Each creature within 60 feet of Scylla must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 60 feet away from Scylla and take 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage. On a success, the creature is pushed 10 feet away from Scylla and takes no damage. Dust, grit and pebbles in a 30-foot-radius area within 120 feet of Scylla fall down like a landslide. The area becomes difficult terrain. A creature in the area must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn. Regional Effects The region surrounding Scylla’s lair is warped by her power, which creates one or more of the following effects: Ships and waterbound beasts within 6 miles of the lair may find themselves being subtly guided by currents directly towards Scylla’s home. Fishing becomes harder in the area. The sealife living within 3 miles of the Scylla’s lair become remarkably agitated, giving them advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks. Fey creatures within 1 mile of Scylla’s lair feel an unexplained sensation of dread as they draw closer towards Scylla’s location. When Scylla dies, all of these regional effects fade immediately. Scylla as a Mythic Encounter Scylla truly is a living nightmare for pirates, sailors and seabound adventurers. If you wish to make an encounter with this monstrous entity truly legendary, Scylla might use her Abomination's Loathing trait. Scylla draws on the infinite hatred she keeps for all things living to sustain her through battle. When this happens, Scylla can choose one of her mythic actions when she uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when Scylla uses her Abomination's Loathing trait: The Hunter at Sea collapses The monster falls to the ground. Its many heads crashing against the water and the nearby stone making a sound all too similar to a landslide. The water nearby grows turbulent and a shriek from Charybdis breaks the brief silence. A warped woman’s face emerges from the nightmarish body of Scylla, just as big and ferocious as the serpentine heads. The face contorts in anger and a horrible scream erupts from Scylla. All heads get back in position, the water grows even more violent than before and the woman’s face is now clearly in view of Scylla’s aggressors. The eel-like eyes harbored a hatred so deep that the mortal heroes couldn’t imagine living in such a state. Fighting Scylla as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 23 creatures in one encounter. Award a party an additional 50,000 XP (100,000 XP total) for defeating her after her Abomination's Loathing trait activates. Monstrosities Monsters have been common amongst the obstacles of heroes since ancient times. These monsters are often born from terrible primordial beings and the damning hubris of the gods. Traits Abomination's Loathing (Recharges after a short or long Rest). If Scylla is reduced to 0 hit points, she doesn't die or fall unconscious. Instead, she regains 380 hit points. In addition, Scylla recharges her Accursed Roar and regains any expended uses of Legendary Resistance. Additionally, Scylla can now use the options in the “Mythic Actions” section for 1 hour. Award a party an additional 50,000 XP (100,000 XP total) for defeating Scylla after her Abomination's Loathing activates. Legendary Resistance (3/day). If Scylla fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Amphibious. Scylla can breathe air and water. Magic Resistance. Scylla has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. Scylla's weapon attacks are magical. Siege Monster. Scylla deals double damage to objects and structures. Multiple Heads. Scylla has six heads which give her advantage on saving throws against being blinded, deafened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. These heads cannot be destroyed, unlike a Hydra's. Reactive Heads. For each head Scylla has beyond one, she gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Wakeful. While Scylla sleeps, at least one of her heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. Scylla uses her frightening presence and then makes 6 attacks. It can be any combination of bite, slam or rock throw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 30ft., one target. Hit: 30 (4d10 + 8) piercing damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 19). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. Scylla can grapple up to 6 creatures in this way. If all heads are grappling a target, Scylla can't make bite attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 26 (4d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Rock Throw. Ranged Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 30/60ft., one target. Hit: 30 (4d10 + 8) bludgeoning damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Scylla's choice that is within 120 feet of her and aware of her must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Scylla's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Accursed Roar (Recharge 6). Scylla unleashes a monstrous roar that shakes the seas. All creatures within 60 feet of Scylla take 33 (6d10) thunder damage plus 33 (6d10) necrotic damage and are deafened for 1 minute, or take half damage and aren't deafened with a successful DC 21 Constitution saving throw. While deafened in this way creatures are wreathed in thundering energy, taking 9 (2d8) thunder damage at the start of their turn, and their speed is halved. A deafened creature repeats the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success. This ability doesn't function in an area under the effect of a silence spell. Legendary Actions Scylla can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Scylla regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. Scylla can move up to her speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. Scylla can make either a slam or rock throw attack. Mythic Actions If Scylla’s Abomination's Loathing trait has activated in the last hour, she can use the options below as legendary actions. Hungry Jaws (costs 2 Actions). Scylla makes a bite attack against two creatures within range. Furious Charge (costs 3 Actions). Scylla moves up to 50 feet in a straight line and can move through the space of any creature huge or smaller. The first time she enters each creature's space during this move, she can make a bite or slam attack against that creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

