# Sea Giant Shaman

**description**: Sea giants are an enigmatic race of amphibious giants. They reach heights of 14 to 15 feet and can weigh over 1,000 pounds. Sea giant skin, which ranges from pale blue, blue-green, and sea green, is extremely thick and tough, enabling them to withstand the pressure of living in extreme depths. Their hair color ranges from green and orange and resembles seaweed in texture. Sea giants fashion armor and clothing from the hide and shells of large sea creatures and from the iron, wood, and nets they scavenge from sea wrecks. Coastline Dwellers. Sea giants can subsist on fish, sea mammals, and aquatic vegetation, but a majority supplement their diet with fruits, vegetables, and animal meat from the surface. Because of this, most sea giants build settlements near coasts. While majority of sea giants keep to themselves and avoid contact with surface dwellers, a few have adapted to a lifestyle that makes them coexist with seaside surface communities. Good-aligned sea giants bring commodities such as whale meat, fish, pearls, and coral, which they trade with coastal villages for livestock, vegetables, precious metals, rope, and steel. Evil sea giants, on the other hand, raid passing merchant ships and nearby coastal towns. They kidnap townsfolk for ransom or to trade with other aquatic races as slaves. Wave Summoners. Sea giants usually fight with tridents or spears. They also use weighted nets to capture prey or prisoners. If hard pressed, they can magically summon a powerful wave of water that can crush, push, and knock back foes. Giant-Kin Giant-kin are the smaller, distantly-related cousins of the true giants. Most look like their brutish kin but some resemble large versions of the common humanoid races. Despite their variations, giant-kin unmistakably embody the essence of true giants, holding a pervasive belief in the innate weakness and inferiority of humanoids. Giant-kin usually form small clans or tribes. They are often encountered working as mercenaries or hired guards. Traits Amphibious. The giant can breathe air and water. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Trident attacks. Trident. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, or 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 7 (2d6) lightning damage. Tidal Surge (Recharge 5–6). The giant conjures up a powerful wave of water that moves down in a line that is 10 feet wide, 10 feet tall, and 30 feet long. Each creature in that line must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 36 (8d8) bludgeoning damage and is pushed up to 10 feet and knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed or knocked prone. Huge and larger creatures have advantage on their saving throws. The water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in its area and within 30 feet of it, and then it vanishes. Summon Lightning (1/Day). The giant targets up to three points on the ground within 120 feet of it. A bolt of lightning flashes down from the sky to hit each point. Each creature within 10 feet of that point must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. A creature in the area of more than one lightning bolt is affected only once. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 (5d10) lightning damage and is incapacitated until the end of the giant's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated. Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: druidcraft, guidance, mending 1/day each: control water, fog cloud, gust of wind, ice storm, sleet storm, thunderwave

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

