# Sea Giant Chieftain

**description**: Sea giants are an enigmatic race of amphibious giants. They reach heights of 14 to 15 feet and can weigh over 1,000 pounds. Sea giant skin, which ranges from pale blue, blue-green, and sea green, is extremely thick and tough, enabling them to withstand the pressure of living in extreme depths. Their hair color ranges from green and orange and resembles seaweed in texture. Sea giants fashion armor and clothing from the hide and shells of large sea creatures and from the iron, wood, and nets they scavenge from sea wrecks. Coastline Dwellers. Sea giants can subsist on fish, sea mammals, and aquatic vegetation, but a majority supplement their diet with fruits, vegetables, and animal meat from the surface. Because of this, most sea giants build settlements near coasts. While majority of sea giants keep to themselves and avoid contact with surface dwellers, a few have adapted to a lifestyle that makes them coexist with seaside surface communities. Good-aligned sea giants bring commodities such as whale meat, fish, pearls, and coral, which they trade with coastal villages for livestock, vegetables, precious metals, rope, and steel. Evil sea giants, on the other hand, raid passing merchant ships and nearby coastal towns. They kidnap townsfolk for ransom or to trade with other aquatic races as slaves. Wave Summoners. Sea giants usually fight with tridents or spears. They also use weighted nets to capture prey or prisoners. If hard pressed, they can magically summon a powerful wave of water that can crush, push, and knock back foes. Giant-Kin Giant-kin are the smaller, distantly-related cousins of the true giants. Most look like their brutish kin but some resemble large versions of the common humanoid races. Despite their variations, giant-kin unmistakably embody the essence of true giants, holding a pervasive belief in the innate weakness and inferiority of humanoids. Giant-kin usually form small clans or tribes. They are often encountered working as mercenaries or hired guards. Traits Amphibious. The giant can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Trident attacks. Trident. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing damage, or 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 7 (2d6) lightning damage. Tidal Surge (Recharge 5–6). The giant conjures up a powerful wave of water that moves down in a line that is 15 feet wide, 10 feet tall, and 60 feet long. Each creature in that line must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 40 (9d8) bludgeoning damage and is pushed up to 10 feet and knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed or knocked prone. Huge and larger creatures have advantage on their saving throws. The water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in its area and within 30 feet of it, and then it vanishes. Bonus Actions Battle Cry (1/Day). Each creature of the giant's choice that is within 30 feet of it, can hear it, and is not already affected by Battle Cry gains advantage on attack rolls until the end of the giant's next turn. Command Ally. The giant targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see and hear the giant, the target can use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack. Legendary Actions The giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The giant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The giant moves up to its speed. Trident (Costs 2 Actions). The giant makes a Trident attack. Forked Lightning (Costs 3 Actions). The giant unleashes a bolt of lightning that arcs toward a target of its choice that it can see within 60 feet of it. Two bolts then leap from that target to as many as two other targets, each of which must be within 15 feet of the first target. A target can be a creature or an object and can be targeted by only one of the bolts. Each target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 13 (3d8) lightning damage and is incapacitated until the end of the giant's next turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

