# Sea Dragon

**description**: The sea dragon is the apex predator of the Sea of Pelluria and the largest rivers that feed into it. This goliath serpentine creature’s long, thin body is dwarfed by the unhinging jaws at its head. Even experienced sailors attempt to avoid sea dragons when possible, as they are big enough to swallow an unfortunate person whole and crush small ships with their coiling bodies. Animals The crucible that was life after the Sundering affected the animals of Aryth as much as any, and some within the fey woodlands of Erethor were slowly transformed by it. Some animals devolved into an even more feral state than before, becoming swifter, stronger, and more aggressive in their hunt for food and quest for survival. Other animals expressed their inner nature by growing more intelligent and forming societies within their territory. These new creatures, the first dire animals known to the world, warred with the fey over territorial rights to the idyllic glades and pristine rivers of Erethor for thousands of years. At the end of the First Age, with the growing threat of the Shadow falling over all Eredane’s lands, Aradil called a council with the leaders of the dire animals, who also felt evil seeping into the land. From this great summit came the Dire Pact, an alliance born of mutual need that has grown into a true kinship between the fey and dire animals. The animals of the world play another role as well, one firmly under the control of Izrador. When he recruited and shaped the astiraxes as his servants, he saw an opportunity to further exploit Aryth’s natural resources. Though the malevolent spirits were not powerful enough to possess the intelligent bodies of humans or fey, they do have power over the beasts of the world. And so it was that the dark god corrupted the animals of the natural world, such that the forces of light could never look at their trusted and loyal companions, or the innocent and wild creatures with which they shared the world, without feeling a twinge of fear, suspicion, or distrust. Adventurers who travel with animal companions are viewed with even more suspicion than most strangers, at least by those who are aware of the astiraxes’ existence—what insanity must a person have to travel with a companion who could at any time become a servant of Shadow? Still, rumors of the heroism of the dire animals of Erethor have filtered to the human lands despite the Shadow’s best attempts to spread lies and misinformation about them, which has helped inspire a reverence toward animal-kind in many cultures. As a result, totemism is on the rise, especially among the halflings and those human communities who are in contact with them. Man’s Worst Enemy? Many of the cultures in the occupied lands have fast developed superstitions surrounding pets. In the Westlands and river communities around the Ardune, stories of the wogrens have led the people to believe that the ghosts of animals come back to protect their former masters. Thus, pets are kept for one year, after which time they are ritually sacrificed in hopes that the animals’ spirits will come back to protect the owners. In Erenhead, it is widely believed that feeding salt from the sea near Baden’s Bluff makes an animal immune to astirax possession. This faulty superstition has been the downfall of several resistance cells, whose members too easily let loose secrets while their “protected” pets skulked about, listening. The traitor princes and collaborators in the eastern cities around the Sea of Pelluria believe that it is a great honor to have one’s pet inhabited by an astirax, and so families keep many pets and often seek out bits of information so that they can tell them to their animals. The preponderance of false stories has led legates to actually discount much of what they hear, ironically lessening the chances that an astirax will actually possess a family pet during an investigation. Common Animals of Eredane Animal-kind has not flourished under the Shadow’s occupation. Existing domesticated herds were quickly depleted by armies on the march through Erenland, and rumors of the legates’ “demon ghosts” quickly made city dwellers nervous about keeping pets and allowing strays to roam the streets. As a result, pets have become scarce in large cities, and villages from the Dornish Northlands to the southern coasts have developed superstitions regarding animals. Among the free peoples of Eredane, concern over the use of animals as spies has grown in the last 100 years. Where possible, ranches and slaughterhouses are well controlled and placed some distance from cities. Even many legates do not trust having animals around, other than those inhabited by their companions, afraid that an enemy’s astirax might be spying on their activities. Nevertheless, most animals can be found somewhere in Eredane, especially those with profiles in the SRD or other popular supplementary materials. If an environment would typically have these creatures (wolves in northern forests, for example, or snakes in humid swamps), the creatures can also be found in Eredane’s equivalent environments. Traits Water Breathing. The sea dragon can breathe only underwater. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d12+6) piercing damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the sea dragon can’t bite another target. Swallow. The sea dragon makes one bite attack against a Large or smaller target it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target is swallowed, and the grapple ends. The swallowed target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside of the sea dragon, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid damage and 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage at the start of each of the sea dragon’s turns. The sea dragon can swallow up to one Large target or four Medium targets, or any number of Small or Tiny targets at a time. If the sea dragon dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement and exiting prone. Thrashing Coils (recharge 5-6). The sea dragon thrashes and writhes, pummeling anything that is too close to its heaving bulk. Each other creature within 5 feet of the sea dragon must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 15 (2d8+6) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. If the target is a creature and it fails its save, it is also pushed 10 feet away from the sea dragon and knocked prone. The sea dragon can then make one bite attack as a bonus action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

