# Seethespawn Gorger

**description**: Seethespawn An eerie silence is broken by strange hissing sounds coming from nowhere. The air becomes thick and the immediate surroundings appear to be muted of color. An overwhelming sense of dread fills the area moments before the terrors known as seethespawn charge toward their prey with a savage, blood-curdling cry of rage. Seethespawn are horrifying mutations that appear as monstrous, malformed humanoids with blighted or charred flesh and bone. Most have sharp limbs or appendages used to tear other creatures to pieces before devouring them. Birth of the Seethes. In the Sol System, during the years of conflict between Earth forces and the space colonies, experimental sorium-based weapons were unleashed upon the surface of Sol 3, transforming large areas into plagued wastelands that came to be known as "Seethes." Those caught in the fallout were transformed into seethespawn, fueled by a mindless rage and insatiable hunger. Horror and Madness. Seethespawn are products of the violent twisting and transfiguration of both the mind and body. Those that venture too long in the seethes are driven mad long before being flayed and consumed by the abominations that dwell there. Though the seethespawn speak no known language, many do show signs of considerable intelligence. Their nests bear strange, random markings drawn with the blood of their prey. Whether this is a form of communication or just a sign of what remains of their mind beyond their madness remains a mystery. Plague Spreaders. Though unable to reproduce, seethespawn create more of their number by infecting the bodies of their victims. When a creature is killed by a seethespawn, they might return to a twisted semblance of life as a seethespawn themselves. In places where they multiply in abundance, the surrounding area is transformed into a new seethe. In the centuries since their appearance, the seethespawn have emerged in other parts of the galaxy. Some have been known to stow away aboard ships, ravaging the entire crew before arriving at an unsuspecting space station or ship convoy. Types, Tips, and Tactics Seethespawn share common traits in appearance, with each variant possessing special physical features such as enlarged limbs or additional appendages that grant them additional traits. However, the majority can be broken down into a few classifications. Regardless of their type, their monstrous appearance and lack of communication often belies their intelligence. Seethespawn Flayer These seethespawn have a tough hide and multiple razor-sharp appendages protruding from their backs, used to rend and tear through flesh, bone, and armor. They can also launch bone spikes from their arms, meant to debilitate foes from afar before moving in for the kill. Seethespawn Gorger Gorgers are named for their insatiable appetite. Appearing as more beast than humanoid, they move about on four limbs and use their brute strength to latch onto their prey and eat them alive. Seethespawn Screecher A screecher's ear-piercing, shrieking howl carries a psionic wave that wreaks havoc upon the minds of other intelligent creatures. Able to contort themselves to fit into narrow spaces, they can easily hide in tight spots such as air ducts, conduits, and luggage containers. Seethespawn Stinger Named for their deadly, stinger-tipped tail, these seethespawn use their speed and reflexes to quickly dispatch their prey. They tend to attack targets that are already engaged in combat with another seethespawn or similar allies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

