# Selenelion Twin

**description**: Gleam and Glister are high elf twins, who until recently performed amazing acts of balance and agility at the Witchlight Carnival. Together, they are known as the Selenelion twins. (A selenelion is a celestial event during a lunar eclipse in which the sun and the eclipsed moon can be observed at the same time, either just before sunset or just after sunrise, when both bodies appear just above the horizon at nearly opposite points in the sky.) Gleam and Glister were born during such an event, and they are blessed with magical abilities tied to moonlight (Gleam) and sunlight (Glister), respectively. The twins are easily distinguished by the masks they wear; Gleam wears a crescent moon mask, and Glister wears a sun mask. Blessed by Corellon, the twins can each change their sex at the end of a long rest, though one twin rarely does so without the other doing likewise. The accompanying stat block uses “she” and “her” as each twin’s default pronouns. The twins are as fond of one another as two siblings can be. Gleam is the introvert of the pair, while Glister is the extrovert. Both have friendly, agreeable demeanors. Find additional roleplaying notes for Gleam and Glister below. Gleam the Elf Acrobat Gleam is blessed with kindness, grace, and the power of moonlight. She wears a crescent moon mask and is one-half of an acrobatic duo called the Selenelion twins, alongside Glister, her sunny twin. Gleam wants to reunite with her twin and return to the Witchlight Carnival, where they belong. Alignment. Chaotic good. Personality Trait. “I’m shy except when I’m on stage or under the Big Top.” Ideal. “Everyone should be free to express themselves however they wish.” Bond. “I love my twin, Glister, with all my heart. I feel incomplete without her.” Flaw. “I avoid conflict. Even a simple argument leaves me flustered and longing to be elsewhere.” Glister the Elf Acrobat Glister is blessed with confidence, grace, and the power of the sun. She wears a sun mask and is one-half of an acrobatic duo called the Selenelion twins, alongside Gleam, her shy twin. Glister is content to remain Endelyn’s “guest” in Motherhorn if it means her sibling is safe from the hag’s wickedness. Alignment. Chaotic good. Personality Trait. “I like to play with fire. I’m confident and take risks, even when the odds are stacked against me.” Ideal. “Everyone should be free to express themselves however they wish.” Bond. “I would sacrifice everything to protect my twin.” Flaw. “When I’m not the center of attention, I become sullen and moody.” Traits Fey Ancestry. The Selenelion twins, Gleam and Glister, have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put them to sleep. Regeneration. A Selenelion twin regains 5 hit points at the start of her turn as long as both twins are alive and within 60 feet of each other. A twin dies only if she starts her turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Twin Bond. While both Selenelion twins are alive and on the same plane of existence, each is aware of the other’s emotions. Actions Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage. Moon Ray (Gleam Only; 3/Day). Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., one creature. Hit : 12 (2d8 + 3) radiant damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be transformed into a bat for 1 minute, as though affected by a polymorph spell. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Sun Ray (Glister Only; 3/Day). Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., one creature. Hit : 12 (2d8 + 3) radiant damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Twin Sight (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). In her mind’s eye, a Selenelion twin can see what the other twin sees for up to 1 minute, provided both twins are alive and on the same plane of existence. Maintaining this effect requires concentration (as if concentrating on a spell).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 11857
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Wild Beyond the Witchlight

