# Selkin Drei'hous

**description**: Once a traveling cleric, Selkin fell in love with a dirgesinger: a bard who set the souls of the dead to rest. Inspired by his partner's work and dedication to their task, Selkin wrote of their tales across the land, good and bad. When the dirgesinger was suddenly taken from him, their soul unable to return to their body, Selkin cursed the god of death that deemed his love's work finished and began to dive into dark methods of revival, determined to win his muse's soul back, even if it means he must bring down the heavens themselves to do so. Personality. Selkin is a kind person, greeting passersby with a broad smile and a small bow, and will often share tales and trade stories with others. Hearing the plight of others, he'll even offer to help along the way if the end goal does not interfere with his plans. However, he will use those he assists to further his goal of reviving his lost love without a second thought should the opportunity arise. Appearance. A high elf in his late 100s, Selkin has olive-toned skin, and burnt auburn hair in thick curls that are usually pulled back into a loose ponytail. His clothes typically consist of high quality cloth and leather, and he wears fine elven chain hidden beneath the layers. He carries a black rapier (the dirgesinger’s sorrow - see page 78), though never uses it. Instead, he opts for a scimitar from his home and a light shield. He dresses in his former lover's colors: black and deep purple, thin threads of midnight blue accenting his typical attire. Plot Hooks Dark Deals. Selkin tells the party of his troubles, offering to share his abilities with them and even provide more standard resurrection magic in his capacity as a high-level cleric in return for their assistance in allowing him to achieve his goal. Secrets and Betrayal. Selkin asks the party to join them in a quest to seek out a cult under the pretense of helping them to destroy it and its dark artifacts. However, Selkin plans to wait until the cult has been neutralized, then turn on the party to recover the artifacts for use in bringing his partner back from the dead. A Cure for Grief. The party encounters the dirgesinger’s soul on another plane, and are asked to convince Selkin to abandon his quest. The dirgesinger’s soul is either trapped or has no desire to return to life, and instead wishes for Selkin to find peace. However, Selkin has already found a ritual that he believes can return the dirgesinger to life (willing or not). The party must choose whether to allow Selkin to go through with the ritual or try to convince him to stop it before he does something irreparable. Tactics Selkin does everything he can to prevent combat, using his Alluring Presence and social skills to smooth things over before hostilities begin. Once combat starts, if he doesn’t have allies nearby, he will open with his Overwhelming Dirge, seeking to incapacitate as many foes as possible so that he can focus on just one or two. Otherwise, he saves this ability until he is outnumbered. Selkin is able to ignore a small number of Injuries with his Sustaining Grief, and can rely on his Heal spells to get him through one or two more. Beyond anything else, Selkin fights for his goal of reviving his lost love and if a fight does not serve that goal, Selkin flees if at all possible. Traits Divine Inspiration. Selkin deals an additional 18 (4d8) radiant damage with his weapon attacks (included in stat block). Alluring Presence. Selkin has advantage on Deception and Persuasion checks. Grave Sense. Selkin is automatically aware of the presence of undead within 30 ft. of him (but doesn’t automatically know their location). Sustaining Grief. At the start of each of his turns, Selkin chooses two Injuries to ignore until the start of his next turn. Actions Multiattack. Selkin makes two Scimitar attacks. Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) slashing damage, plus 18 (4d8) radiant damage. Divine Flame. One creature Selkin can see within 60 ft. must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. The target gains no benefit from cover for this saving throw. Amplified Turning (2/Rest). Each undead that can see or hear Selkin within 30 ft. of him must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is turned for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. A turned creature is incapacitated and restrained. If the creature’s CR is 3 or lower, it is instantly destroyed instead. Overwhelming Dirge (1/Rest). Selkin sings a song of grief for his lost love, filling those that hear it with sorrow and sapping their will to fight. Each creature that starts its turn within 30 ft. of Selkin that can hear him must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be overwhelmed with grief and become incapacitated for 1 minute, until Selkin stops singing or becomes inaudible, or until Selkin or his allies deals damage to them, whichever comes sooner. An affected creature can make a new saving throw to end this effect on itself at the end of each of its turns. Undead have disadvantage on their saving throws against this ability, though a calm emotions spell renders a creature immune to its effects. Heal (2/Rest). Selkin casts heal. One creature Selkin can see within 60 ft. regains 70 hit points. This spell also ends blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting the target. This spell has no effect on constructs or undead. Selkin can make a Wisdom (Medicine) check with a +15 bonus to remove an Injury from the target. Bonus Actions Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) bludgeoning damage, plus 18 (4d8) radiant damage and the target must make a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Reactions Delay Death (5/Day). Whenever Selkin or an ally he can see within 30 ft. of him suffers a critical hit, he can turn that attack into a normal hit. Any effects triggered by a critical hit are canceled.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: is

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

