# Servok War Engine

**description**: Servoks, the labor and siege class of valok, are huge, slow, and built for a specific purpose—though all are designed to defend themselves when threatened. No humaniform servoks have been discovered; their forms depend on their purpose, but they’re never smaller than a wagon. Despite each servok’s utilitarian construction and the ages of grime accumulated atop their iridoss, each servok is impressive to behold. The dead language of the steel dwarves is lost to time and beyond the reach of most magic, but scholars believe that someone who spoke this ancient tongue could command a servok. Even then, servoks can’t act outside their design parameters—a servok designed to mine ore can’t be commanded to make a vase. Servok Builder. Steel dwarves used one class of servoks, called builders, to construct buildings, roads, and walls. Their valiar arms can lift and fling enormous stones, and a great mixing cannister on their back holds concrete that can be spewed forth from an opening at the front of the construct. The steel dwarves equipped each builder with a valiar wrecking ball to demolish any old construction impeding the servok’s progress. Some active builders still work the caverns where they were left, clearing the ground in preparation for some grand project known only to their progenitors. Servok Miner. Servok miners dug the legendary tunnels of the steel dwarves. These track-driven constructs are equipped with a mechanical drill and pneumatic pick to break through stone with ease. A conveyor belt at the front of the valok allows them to load ore for transport or unload debris in a violent spray. A few miners still dig tunnels deep into the earth, searching for ore and ready to destroy anything in the way of their search. Servok War Engine. The quaking of earth and boom of an arcane cannon precedes the arrival of a servok war engine. Built to roll through enemy ranks with their bladed rake, the war engine can also eliminate targets from afar with their massive gun that shoots both magic blasts and burning oil. There are still war engines that went to battle and haven’t returned. They consider every creature they meet who isn’t a steel dwarf to be an enemy. Traits Immutable Form. The engine is immune to any power, spell, or effect that would alter their form. Siege Monster. The engine deals double damage to objects and structures. Supernatural Resistance. The engine has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. Actions Multiattack. The engine makes two attacks using Blade Rake, Force Cannon, or both. Blade Rake. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 35 (4d12 + 9) slashing damage. If the target is Large or smaller, they are pulled up to 15 feet toward the engine. Force Cannon. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 400 ft., one target. Hit: 33 (6d10) force damage, and the target is dazed until the end of their next turn. Burning Oil (Recharge 6 ). The engine shoots burning oil in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 52 (15d6) fire damage and is covered in scalding oil. A creature covered in scalding oil takes 10 (3d6) fire damage at the start of each of their turns. A creature can use an action to remove the oil from themself or a creature they can reach, ending the effect. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and is not covered in scalding oil. Bonus Actions Destructive Rollout. The engine moves up to their speed in a straight line, destroying mundane walls in their path that are less than 10 feet thick. Medium or smaller mundane objects in the engine’s path are destroyed if the objects aren’t being worn or carried by a creature. The engine can move through the spaces of other creatures during this movement as if they were difficult terrain, and if the engine does so, the creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

