# Servok Miner

**description**: Servoks, the labor and siege class of valok, are huge, slow, and built for a specific purpose—though all are designed to defend themselves when threatened. No humaniform servoks have been discovered; their forms depend on their purpose, but they’re never smaller than a wagon. Despite each servok’s utilitarian construction and the ages of grime accumulated atop their iridoss, each servok is impressive to behold. The dead language of the steel dwarves is lost to time and beyond the reach of most magic, but scholars believe that someone who spoke this ancient tongue could command a servok. Even then, servoks can’t act outside their design parameters—a servok designed to mine ore can’t be commanded to make a vase. Servok Builder. Steel dwarves used one class of servoks, called builders, to construct buildings, roads, and walls. Their valiar arms can lift and fling enormous stones, and a great mixing cannister on their back holds concrete that can be spewed forth from an opening at the front of the construct. The steel dwarves equipped each builder with a valiar wrecking ball to demolish any old construction impeding the servok’s progress. Some active builders still work the caverns where they were left, clearing the ground in preparation for some grand project known only to their progenitors. Servok Miner. Servok miners dug the legendary tunnels of the steel dwarves. These track-driven constructs are equipped with a mechanical drill and pneumatic pick to break through stone with ease. A conveyor belt at the front of the valok allows them to load ore for transport or unload debris in a violent spray. A few miners still dig tunnels deep into the earth, searching for ore and ready to destroy anything in the way of their search. Servok War Engine. The quaking of earth and boom of an arcane cannon precedes the arrival of a servok war engine. Built to roll through enemy ranks with their bladed rake, the war engine can also eliminate targets from afar with their massive gun that shoots both magic blasts and burning oil. There are still war engines that went to battle and haven’t returned. They consider every creature they meet who isn’t a steel dwarf to be an enemy. Traits Immutable Form. The miner is immune to any power, spell, or effect that would alter their form. Supernatural Resistance. The miner has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. Tunneler. The miner can burrow through solid rock at half their burrowing speed and leaves a 5-foot-diameter tunnel in their wake. Actions Multiattack. The miner makes two attacks using Drill Press, Pneumatic Pick, or both. Drill Press. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage. If the target is touching the ground, they are knocked prone and restrained by the miner’s drill. While restrained in this way, the target takes 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage at the start of each of their turns, and the miner can’t make Drill Press attacks. The restrained condition ends if the miner moves, makes a Drill Press attack, or is destroyed. The target or a creature who can reach them can use an action to pull the target away from the drill, ending the restrained condition and dealing 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage to the target in the process. Pneumatic Pick. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) piercing damage. If the target is wearing mundane armor, their armor takes a permanent and cumulative −1 penalty to the AC it offers. Armor reduced to an AC of 10 is destroyed. Unload Rocks (Recharge 6 ). The miner hurls rocks and dirt in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 44 (8d10) bludgeoning damage and is blinded until the end of their next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and is not blinded. Bonus Actions Break Ground (Recharge 6 ). The miner strikes the ground and creates a fissure extending from them in a 30-foot-long, 5-foot-wide, 30-foot-deep line. Each Medium or smaller creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature falls into the fissure, taking 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall and landing prone. On a successful save, a creature is shunted 5 feet into an unoccupied space and does not fall into the fissure. If a creature doesn’t have an unoccupied space within 5 feet of them, they fall into the fissure.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

