# Servok Builder

**description**: Servoks, the labor and siege class of valok, are huge, slow, and built for a specific purpose—though all are designed to defend themselves when threatened. No humaniform servoks have been discovered; their forms depend on their purpose, but they’re never smaller than a wagon. Despite each servok’s utilitarian construction and the ages of grime accumulated atop their iridoss, each servok is impressive to behold. The dead language of the steel dwarves is lost to time and beyond the reach of most magic, but scholars believe that someone who spoke this ancient tongue could command a servok. Even then, servoks can’t act outside their design parameters—a servok designed to mine ore can’t be commanded to make a vase. Servok Builder. Steel dwarves used one class of servoks, called builders, to construct buildings, roads, and walls. Their valiar arms can lift and fling enormous stones, and a great mixing cannister on their back holds concrete that can be spewed forth from an opening at the front of the construct. The steel dwarves equipped each builder with a valiar wrecking ball to demolish any old construction impeding the servok’s progress. Some active builders still work the caverns where they were left, clearing the ground in preparation for some grand project known only to their progenitors. Servok Miner. Servok miners dug the legendary tunnels of the steel dwarves. These track-driven constructs are equipped with a mechanical drill and pneumatic pick to break through stone with ease. A conveyor belt at the front of the valok allows them to load ore for transport or unload debris in a violent spray. A few miners still dig tunnels deep into the earth, searching for ore and ready to destroy anything in the way of their search. Servok War Engine. The quaking of earth and boom of an arcane cannon precedes the arrival of a servok war engine. Built to roll through enemy ranks with their bladed rake, the war engine can also eliminate targets from afar with their massive gun that shoots both magic blasts and burning oil. There are still war engines that went to battle and haven’t returned. They consider every creature they meet who isn’t a steel dwarf to be an enemy. Traits Immutable Form. The builder is immune to any power, spell, or effect that would alter their form. Siege Monster. The builder deals double damage to objects and structures. Supernatural Resistance. The builder has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. Actions Multiattack. The builder makes two attacks using Wrecking Ball, Stone, or both, and can use Lay the Foundation, if available. Wrecking Ball. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 26 (3d12 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Each enemy within 5 feet of the target must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (2d12) bludgeoning damage. Stone. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (3d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, they are knocked prone. Lay the Foundation (Recharge 6 ). The builder pours wet concrete on the ground in a 20-foot square starting from a point within 5 feet of the builder. Until the foundation dries in 1 hour, that area is difficult terrain, and when a creature with a Strength score of 20 or less starts their turn in that area, they must succeed on a DC 19 Strength (Athletics) check or be restrained until the start of their next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

