# Shadow Cloaker

**description**: Shadow cloakers, also known as shadowcloaks, are menacing predators that have been tainted by the Shadowfell after living in Plane of Shadow for many years. Vicious and cunning, they scour the Underdark caverns for victims to torment and consume. In combat, they employ their shadow abilities to great effect, often catching their prey by surprise. Traits Damage Transfer. While attached to a creature, the cloaker takes only half the damage dealt to it (rounded down). and that creature takes the other half. False Appearance. If the cloaker is motionless at the start of combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if a creature hasn’t observed the cloaker move or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the cloaker is animate. Light Sensitivity. While in bright light, the cloaker has disadvantage on attack rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The cloaker makes two attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Tail. Alternatively, it can use Vampiric Drain and make one Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, and if the target is Large or smaller, the cloaker attaches to it. lf the cloaker has advantage against the target, the cloaker attaches to the target's head, and the target is blinded and unable to breathe while the cloaker is attached. While attached, the cloaker can make this attack only against the target and has advantage on the attack roll. The cloaker can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its movement. A creature, including the target, can take its action to detach the cloaker by succeeding on a DC 16 Strength check. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) necrotic damage. Vampiric Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature the cloaker is attached to. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the cloaker regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way rises as a shadow under the cloaker's control. Moan. Each creature within 60 feet of the cloaker that can hear its moan and that isn't an aberration must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of the cloaker's next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the cloaker's moan for the next 24 hours. Phantasms (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The cloaker magically creates three illusory duplicates of itself if it isn't in bright light. The duplicates move with it and mimic its actions, shifting position so as to make it impossible to track which cloaker is the real one. If the cloaker is ever in an area of bright light, the duplicates disappear. Whenever any creature targets the cloaker with an attack or a harmful spell while a duplicate remains, that creature rolls randomly to determine whether it targets the cloaker or one of the duplicates. A creature is unaffected by this magical effect if it can't see or if it relies on senses other than sight. A duplicate has the cloaker's AC and uses its saving throws. If an attack hits a duplicate, or if a duplicate fails a saving throw against an effect that deals damage, the duplicate disappears. Shadow Jump. If the cloaker is in dim light or darkness, each creature of the cloaker's choice within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 21 (3d12 + 2) necrotic damage. The cloaker then magically teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. It can bring one creature it's attached to, teleporting that creature to an unoccupied space it can see within 5 feet of its destination. The destination spaces of this teleportation must be in dim light or darkness. Bonus Actions Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the cloaker takes the Hide action. Shadow Step. While in dim light or darkness, the cloaker teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. It then has advantage on the first melee attack it makes before the end of the turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

