# Shade Velbast

**description**: Velbast Generations ago, the catastrophic battle known today as the Nesieve Conflict caused a mass eruption of spatial anomalies that spread across various regions of the galaxy. At first thought to be pockets of anti-matter, these distortions possessed their own intelligence and were imbued with the unstable primordial energies left behind during the war. They traveled through the stars, absorbing and merging with any inorganic material it could locate to create a physical shell. These aberrations became the first velbasti — terrifying shapeshifting constructs with the power to shape and control the matter and energy. They have evolved over generations, sustaining and growing their species by consuming beings capable of channeling the Crucibles' energies. Energy Shapers. What sets the velbasti apart from most other beings is the complex synergy between their organic and inorganic nature. Even with such a nature, they also possess the ability to shape matter and energy in a manner similar to other species that have achieved esper genesis. While all are able to channel destructive, elemental forces, the more evolved velbast have mastered the ability to use esper powers, as well as forge sorium into weapons and defenses. Relentless Evolution. All velbasti are highly intelligent, but possess an insatiable hunger for the lifeforce of other beings, as well as energy created through the use of sorium. Should a velbast encounter and consume either of these, they experience a euphoric sensation accompanied with a state of heightened strength and senses, marking a step in their eventual transformation. Each velbast begins as a fledgling of their type, evolving into more powerful forms after consuming enough primordial energy. The more a velbast evolves, the greater their appetites grow. However, powerful velbast are likely to recruit lesser types into their service, offering both protection and sustanance in return. These mutual arrangements are often delicate, as groups of lesser velbasti have been known to band together to reap the bounty gained by their more powerful benefactor. Bound to the Core. The essence of each velbasti is tied to their primary core, the source of primal energy that spawned them. Whenever a velbast is destroyed, its energy returns to the core, where it may be spawned again in the same form or multiple lesser forms. Each primary core is presided over by a consummate—a velbasti that has achieved the pinnacle of their evolution, transcending the limits of their origins. Though viewed moreso as generals than rulers among the velbasti, each consummate holds a considerable amount of influence over the actions of the velbast tied to their core, as well as control over how they may be respawned. Regardless of their origin point, all velbasti can communicate with each other in pulses of light and sound that mimics the same language used by proteans such as the belare. This has led to many theories as to how the velbasti originally came into being. Forces of Corruption. Most espers use their abilities to channel energy in its purest form, but a velbast's form is corrupted by its very nature. They defile all that they consume, and their powers can often leave behind an invisible mark or "scar" that causes plague and sickness in wildlife and plant life. Their channeling of powerful energies also produces a wave of dark matter that contaminates their surrounding area. In regions where all life has been annihilated by the velbasti, the scar of corruption left behind can sometimes form an interstellar gate through which they may freely travel to and from their core. Due to their very nature, the velbasti bear an intrinsic hatred for all other forms of life in the galaxy, especially espers, whom they view as their fundamental opposites. Lesser velbasti mercilessly unleash their malice toward their victims, while more evolved forms delight in evoking fear, anguish, and suffering in creatures until they devour their lifeforce. Shapeshifters. The unique makeup of the velbasti eventually grants them the ability to shift their form. Those evolved beyond fledglings can shape their limbs into elemental weapons depending upon their type. The more evolved can change their shape entirely, often concealing themselves among other species. However, their nature still makes it difficult for them to blend in among creatures who are particularly observant or possess sight beyond the mundane. The primary goal of such infiltrations, other than the advantage of concealment, is the ability to learn the weaknesses of the lifeforms they are imitating. In addition, the rapid advancements fueled by space travel creates even greater advantage for velbast that have already learned how to copy the traits of a spacefaring species, allowing them to easily blend into crowded areas where a variety of species are in abundance. Extinctionist Dogma. The appearance of the velbast has prompted the formation of numerous cultist groups that revere the velbasti and pledge service to their cause. Some of these fanatics believe they are participating in the imminent end-times, while some plan their schemes to claim dominion over the ashes of galactic civilization. Some yet still believe they can eventually shed their mortal forms to instead become beings of eternal destruction. Whatever the reason, it is not uncommon for powerful velbasti to play along in order to garner services and valuable gains from their union. Such creatures are sometimes marked by the velbast, shown on both their physical form and supernal essence. While the mark grants the worshippers access to special powers, it also slowly eats away at the creature's lifeforce. During this time, however, this supernatural bond can also become a liability for the velbast, and so it is not granted lightly. Devour Essence. A velbast can devour the lifeforce of a creature it has killed within the last hour, provided that creature is neither an automaton or construct. The devouring requires the velbast to be within 5 feet of the corpse for at least 1 hour, after which it regains hit points equal to half the creature’s hit point maximum and receives the benefits of a major remedy . A creature devoured by a category 2 or 3 velbast can be restored to life only by a cosmic weave or full restore power. Universal Adaptation. A velbast doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Velbast Classifications Within galactic lore, velbasti are categorized based on three evolutionary stages. Most also have an affinity toward a particular form of primordial energy, which denotes its type. Velbasti that have evolved beyond these three stages are either considered to be consummates or have yet to be categorized. Velbast Types by Category Category Known Types 1 dynam, femeri, tensus 2 blazing, frost, power, reaper, storm 3 brumal, inferno, tempest, shade Category 3 Velbast Considered to be the most powerful among the non-unique forms, these velbasti are feared throughout the galaxy, as well as among their own kind. They've mastered the ability to blend in almost anywhere, priming their victims' fears and weaknesses while plotting their demise. Brumal Velbast A brumal velbast is a calculating being that takes great pride and pleasure in manipulating other intelligent lifeforms by playing on their deepest secrets, fears, and desires. They are heartless and self-absorbed, but are equally as dangerous when drawn into physical conflict. A brumal velbast stands about 12 feet tall. Their blue-white form is semi-translucent, holding swirling, frigid mists within. Inferno Velbast Standing at over twenty feet tall, an inferno velbast is a hulking powerhouse of wonton destruction. They enjoy exterminating all other lifeforms as equally as devouring their essence. The force of the inferno velbast is also powerful enough to devastate structures and barriers. Their bodies are surrounded by a flaming aura that burns through anything that crosses its path. Shade Velbast These ominous velbasti are brilliant and cunning. Often taking the role of commanders among groups of velbasti, their desire for power and influence holds no bounds. Though the most reserved and influential among their kind, they still bear the same contempt for all life, choosing to play a long game toward the extinction of the living. A shade velbast is 18 feet tall, its black and gold form surrounded by tendrils of shadow. Tempest Velbast As ephemeral in appearance as their name implies, a tempest velbast represents the epitome of controlled chaos. It thrives off of anarchy and confusion, excelerating these to the greatest heights before it feeds. A tempest velbast stands at nearly 15 feet tall. Their bodies ripple with electricity an their voices echo in a deep, thunderous tone. Variant: Velbast Summoning Some velbasti can have an action that allows them to summon other velbasti. Summon Velbast (1/Day). The velbast summons another velbast, which appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of its summoner, acts as an ally of its summoner, and can't summon other velbast. It remains for 1 minute, until it or its summoner dies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action. Chances of success are listed as follows: A brumal velbast has a 40 percent chance of summoning 2d8 femeri, 1d6 frost velbast, or one brumal velbast. An inferno velbast has a 40 percent chance of summoning 1d8 dynam, 1d6 blazing velbast, or one inferno velbast. A reaper velbast has a 30 percent chance of summoning 1d6 tensus, 1d3 frost velbast, or one reaper velbast. A shade velbast has a 50 percent chance of summoning 3d6 tensus, 2d6 dynam, 1d8 power velbast, 1d4 reaper velbast, or one shade velbast. A tempest velbast has a 50 percent chance of summoning 3d6 femeri, 2d6 dynam, 1d8 frost velbast, 1d3 reaper velbast, or one tempest velbast.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: aberration (shapeshifter)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

