# Shadowtech Samurai

**description**: Shadow Technocracy Arguably the most clandestine power in known space, the Shadow Technocracy is a galactic organization whose true nature has been shrouded in mystery since anyone learned of their existence. Their reach extends throughout every aspect of galactic life, infiltrating the workings of regional governments, trade, media, and the criminal underworld. Operating from remote space stations invisible to nearly all forms of detection, they aim to establish themselves as deities, asserting their will and dominance over all other life in the galaxy through the power of technomancy. Evolution Redesigned. The founders of the Technocracy represented a variety of galactic humanoid species. Defining themselves as the dominant forms of life in the universe, they viewed their own technological advancements as preordained endowments, destined to mark their path toward a new evolutionary phase of life. This new ideology views empathy and emotion as genetic defects that keep them from emerging into the higher forms of immortal life that is their inherent fate. Moving in secret throughout societies that would reject them, they spread their doctrine among those in power that would support their cause. Over time, the Technocracy grew into a new religion, overseen by fanatical devotees dedicated to establishing technology and science as the new natural order of the universe. Controlled Nature. As their ascendency became accepted as established destiny, technocrats viewed other forms of life not as something to be forcibly controlled, but instead as something to be guided by their own nature. Pride, love, fear, anger, and other extreme emotional impulses are mortal flaws to be used as tools by the Technocracy to manipulate and exert influence over those blind to their own sentiment. Using these methods of manipulation and distraction, devotees secretly indoctrinate other humanoids, either by infecting them with mind-altering technologies or tempting them with promises of great power, wealth, or eternal salvation. Empty Promises. Though the Technocracy has expanded into a galaxy-wide clandestine cult, its ruthless leaders do not actually believe in the majority of the creed they spread. Instead, the fanatical devotion of their followers is simply another tool of control, with the followers themselves to be used as stepping stones toward attaining their own status as the new gods of the universe. Some may join them in this exultation, while most eventually become slaves or sacrifices toward achieving a grand destiny. Design by Appropriation. Due to the specific nature of their overall goals, new scientific and technological discoveries are of immediate interest to the Technocracy. Most shadow technocrats and their followers are far from being inventors and scientific pioneers, instead scouring the galaxy for revolutionary advancements their engineers can adapt into new forms of technomancy. This often brings them into conflict with other technological lifeforms, such as the kanasi or machina. However, in some frightening circumstances, it can also create unstable alliances between them. Shadowtech Samurai Devoted to the service of the Technocracy, these samurai are techno-armored warriors equipped with specialized high-tech gear and sensory implants. They faithfully safeguard members of their organization and fearlessly charge into battle when called to do so.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

