# Shadow Technocrat

**description**: Shadow Technocracy Arguably the most clandestine power in known space, the Shadow Technocracy is a galactic organization whose true nature has been shrouded in mystery since anyone learned of their existence. Their reach extends throughout every aspect of galactic life, infiltrating the workings of regional governments, trade, media, and the criminal underworld. Operating from remote space stations invisible to nearly all forms of detection, they aim to establish themselves as deities, asserting their will and dominance over all other life in the galaxy through the power of technomancy. Evolution Redesigned. The founders of the Technocracy represented a variety of galactic humanoid species. Defining themselves as the dominant forms of life in the universe, they viewed their own technological advancements as preordained endowments, destined to mark their path toward a new evolutionary phase of life. This new ideology views empathy and emotion as genetic defects that keep them from emerging into the higher forms of immortal life that is their inherent fate. Moving in secret throughout societies that would reject them, they spread their doctrine among those in power that would support their cause. Over time, the Technocracy grew into a new religion, overseen by fanatical devotees dedicated to establishing technology and science as the new natural order of the universe. Controlled Nature. As their ascendency became accepted as established destiny, technocrats viewed other forms of life not as something to be forcibly controlled, but instead as something to be guided by their own nature. Pride, love, fear, anger, and other extreme emotional impulses are mortal flaws to be used as tools by the Technocracy to manipulate and exert influence over those blind to their own sentiment. Using these methods of manipulation and distraction, devotees secretly indoctrinate other humanoids, either by infecting them with mind-altering technologies or tempting them with promises of great power, wealth, or eternal salvation. Empty Promises. Though the Technocracy has expanded into a galaxy-wide clandestine cult, its ruthless leaders do not actually believe in the majority of the creed they spread. Instead, the fanatical devotion of their followers is simply another tool of control, with the followers themselves to be used as stepping stones toward attaining their own status as the new gods of the universe. Some may join them in this exultation, while most eventually become slaves or sacrifices toward achieving a grand destiny. Design by Appropriation. Due to the specific nature of their overall goals, new scientific and technological discoveries are of immediate interest to the Technocracy. Most shadow technocrats and their followers are far from being inventors and scientific pioneers, instead scouring the galaxy for revolutionary advancements their engineers can adapt into new forms of technomancy. This often brings them into conflict with other technological lifeforms, such as the kanasi or machina. However, in some frightening circumstances, it can also create unstable alliances between them. Shadow Technocrat Technocrats are the elite operatives and overseers within the Technocracy. Though trained in the use of esper powers and technological implements, they operate primarily in the background. Their identities are kept a secret, aided by their ability to hide in plain sight within modern society. A Technocrat's Lair Technocrats reside on a cloaked ship, a small space station, or an underground base protected with state-of-the-art security sensors and intrusion countermeasures. These bases of operations are heavily tech laden. Screens, wires, circuit panels, mechanical parts, bio-tech, and similar features are found in any combination. A technocrat encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP). Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the technocrat takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the technocrat can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row. The technocrat rolls a d6 and regains a power slot of that rank or lower. If it has no spent power slots of that rank or lower, nothing happens. Each automaton or construct ally in the lair has advantage on saving throws against effects that would cause them to become impaired until initiative count 20 on the next round. Streams of high-voltage electricity are released from the surrounding electronics, targeting up to two creatures the technocrat can see within 60 feet of it. The targets must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a success. Regional Effects. A technocrat's lair can have effects on the surroundings in any of the following ways: Streams of random code appear in an illuminated crisscrossing pattern along the floors or walls. They shed dim light up to 10 feet. Portable electronic devices such as PMDs or commlinks either do not function or display random, useless information when accessed. This has no effect on worn equipment or cybernetics. A creature attempting to tamper with the electronics or technical equipment in the area must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned by a technovirus for 24 hours. The virus can be removed by a restore pattern power or similar effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

