# Shambling Corpse Mound

**description**: This horrific abomination is a pile of dead bodies that have rotted together into a mass of decaying flesh, overgrown with roots and vines that intertwine among the broken limbs, holding the corpses together. The creak of straining wood and the sickening crack of snapping, rotten bone punctuates the creature’s movements. Disgorge Skeletons (1/Day) . When the shambling corpse mound drops below half its hit point maximum (76 hit points), it disgorges 1d4 thorn skeletons into unoccupied spaces within 5 feet of it. The thorn skeletons take their turns immediately after the shambling corpse mound. Necrotic Absorption. Whenever the shambling corpse mound is subjected to necrotic damage, it takes no damage and regains a number of hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. Putrescent Aura. Any creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the shambling corpse mound must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature is immune to any shambling corpse mound’s Putrescent Aura for 24 hours. Constructs, undead, and creatures that are immune to poison damage or the poisoned condition automatically succeed on this saving throw. Turn Resistance. The shambling corpse mound has advantage on saving throws against effects that turn Undead. Actions Multiattack. The shambling corpse mound makes two slam attacks against the same target. If both attacks hit a Medium or smaller target, the target is grappled (escape DC 15), and the shambling corpse mound can use its Engulf on the target as part of the same action. Slam . Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Engulf . The shambling corpse mound engulfs a Medium or smaller creature grappled by it. The engulfed target is blinded, restrained, and unable to breathe, and it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of the corpse mound's turns or take 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the corpse mound moves, the engulfed target moves with it. If the target ends the grapple, it is no longer engulfed. The corpse mound can have only one creature engulfed at a time. Bonus Actions Unearth Corpse . If the shambling corpse mound hasn’t moved yet this round and stands on nonmagical, unworked earth, it can sink its roots into the soil and draw up a rotting corpse or dead organic matter from the ground, incorporating it into its body. When it does so, its movement drops to 0 until the start of its next turn, and it regains 11 (2d6 + 4) hit points. Reactions Tripping Roots . When a Medium or smaller creature moves within 5 feet of the shambling corpse mound, the corpse mound can use one of its roots to attempt to trip the creature. The creature must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. Creature Types The creatures in this article have “Plant/Undead” listed as their creature type. They are subject to effects that target or include Plants as well as those that target or apply to Undead. For example, since they’re Plants, they take maximum damage from the blight spell, but they’re also affected by the cleric’s Turn Undead feature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Plant/Undead
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 24294
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 14

