# Shambling Mound Companion (PB 5)

**description**: The ground, lush and overgrown, squelches under every footstep. Curtains of menacing vines block the way, and muffled groans echo distantly under the darkening canopy. By the time you realize the ground is moving, it’s too late—the shambling mound has taken you. Found in overgrown swamps, stinking marshes, dense wodes, and dark, damp rainforests, the shambling mound is a wandering mass of vegetation that feeds on everything in their path. Hearty Eater. As a shambling mound drags their massive form through the undergrowth, they consume any organic matter they pass. When they find a good place to lurk until a meal comes to them, the result is far more satisfying. After a mound engulfs their prey—be they animal or adventurer—the meal-to-be is sealed in a sack of inter­woven vines and leaves. The walls of this vegetative chamber release a toxic sap that dissolves the prey inside. Verdant Camouflage. Rather than slowly chase prey, the shambling mound prefers to drape their form along well-traveled paths. They blend perfectly into their hunting ground, making it easy to seize unsuspecting passersby. A shambling mound in a rainforest may sport vines, ferns, and giant leaves, while another in a swamp engulfs adv­enturers in massive grasses, moss, and reeds. Noxious Origins. A shambling mound is most often a byproduct of a nearby evil mage. The nefarious magic of the surrounding land can coalesce into a nocuous creature consumed by hunger. The shambling mound knows only that they must feed, and thus they drag themself in search of a hunting ground. Growing in Size. Most shambling mounds begin their unnatural lives about the size of an adult human. These smaller young are often called shambling piles. The strongest among these piles consume their many siblings, growing much larger and becoming true shambling mounds. Will Work for Food. Shambling mounds aren’t malicious, and some show a capacity for learning. Daring (or foolish) adventurers might find that feeding a shambling mound a steady diet of evildoers turns them into a loyal companion. Traits False Appearance. While the mound remains motionless, they are indistinguishable from an ordinary mass of vegetation. If the mound’s caregiver is Large or smaller, they can use the Hide action to attempt to hide in the same space as their motionless mound. Actions Signature Attack (Vine Lash). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 plus PB piercing damage. 1 st Level: Long-Range Lash ( 2 Ferocity). The mound makes a signature attack with a reach of 30 feet instead of 5 feet. If this attack hits a Medium or smaller creature, the mound can pull the target up to 10 feet toward the mound. 3 rd Level: Verdant Roundup ( 5 Ferocity). The mound targets up to PB creatures within 30 feet of them who are Large or smaller. Each target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw or be pulled up to 15 feet toward the mound and take PBd4 poison damage. 5 th Level: Engulf ( 8 Ferocity). The mound attempts to pull a Large or smaller creature within 5 feet of them into their body. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Strength saving throw. On a failure, the target is pulled into the mound’s space, takes PBd8 poison damage, and is engulfed. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage, doesn’t move, and isn’t engulfed. An engulfed creature is restrained, has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the mound, and takes PBd8 poison damage at the start of each of the mound’s turns. When the mound moves, the engulfed creature moves with them. An engulfed creature can try to escape by taking an action to make a DC 10 plus PB Strength check. On a success, that creature is freed and shunted to an unoccupied space of their choice within 5 feet of the mound. The mound can have one Large or up to four Medium or smaller creatures engulfed at a time.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Companion

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

