# Shardstorm Elemental

**description**: Shardstorm elementals, sometimes referred to as metal elementals, take the form of a swirling storm of razor-sharp metal shards. A limbless body resembling a semi-cylindrical tornado fills the air around it with a roaring cacophony of metallic whirring and grinding, like a million tiny knives being sharpened all at once. A shardstorm elemental carves through all in its path, easily destroying non-magical objects. Though slow, it is said they can even burrow through solid stone if given enough time. Unnatural Birth. Shardstorm elementals never occur naturally, and are typically summoned by a wizard or other experimenting spellcaster. Unlike other elementals, a shardstorm elemental cannot be controlled, and any summoner is as likely to be its first target as their enemies. Once created, a shardstorm elemental follows its instincts until destroyed. Destructive Instincts. Among the least intelligent of elementals, shardstorm elementals know little besides a hunger to consume and destroy, and spend the majority of their time seeking out new raw materials to destroy, only stopping to carve a path through walls when presented with no other way forward and no other targets in sight. If left to its own devices, a shardstorm elemental would seek to destroy all life. Tactics. Shardstorm elementals start by targeting the enemy they believe is most likely to die first, whether that is due to lighter armor, lighter build, or existing Injuries. They go only by what they can see physically, and do not take tactics or mental characteristics into consideration. If one enemy becomes especially troublesome, they will switch their focus to target them instead. A shardstorm elemental only flees when it becomes Imperiled or it becomes incredibly clear that it cannot destroy any of its enemies. Traits Shardstorm. Whenever a creature attacks the shardstorm elemental using a melee weapon while within 5 feet of the shardstorm elemental, that creature takes 7 (2d6) points of slashing damage. Destructive Force. Any non-magical weapon that isn’t a natural weapon that hits the shardstorm elemental is destroyed unless its wielder succeeds on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. Non-magical missiles are automatically destroyed (dealing no damage). Additionally, the shardstorm elemental can pass through non-magical, non-sentient wooden objects and plants, destroying them in the process. Particularly solid objects or plants (like a palisade wall or tree) count as difficult terrain. Metallic Body. The shardstorm elemental’s Defenses Injury thresholds are 5 higher than normal. Additionally, if it would take lightning damage, its body charges with electricity, adding 7 (2d6) lightning damage to each of its damage rolls until the end of its next turn. Actions Multiattack. The shardstorm elemental makes two melee attacks with its Swirling Razors. Swirling Razors. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (4d10+5) slashing damage. 1000 Cuts (recharge 5-6). The shardstorm elemental rapidly increases the radius of its swirling blades, taking nearby creatures by surprise. Each creature within 5 feet of the shardstorm elemental must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 28 (8d6) slashing damage and have its Injury thresholds reduced by 5 until it becomes Injured.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

