# Shaytan Solar

**description**: A shaytan solar is extremely rare, and a demon lord who commands one often tilts the balance in the Abyss to its favor. The shaytan solar serves as the demon lord's main bodyguard and at times of war, even as the main general of its armies. The demon lord keeps the shaytan close and watches it at all times, for it recognizes the danger the shaytan solar poses. Angels, Shaytan While most fallen angels have usually gone astray due to Asmodeus' corruption, some have succumbed to the temptations of Graz'zt, The Dark Prince of Pleasure, or Malcanthet, the Succubus Queen. These angels are known as shaytan or shayatin. Once beautiful and majestic, they have turned into dark and hateful opposites of their former selves. Shadow Fiends. No longer celestials, these angels have lost some of their powers, including fast flight speed, magic resistance, and the ability to project radiant energy. These changes resulted in driving most of them insane. Now reborn as fiends, they draw their power from the Shadowfell and the Abyss. Their bodies are always cloaked with oozing shadows and their eyes limned with abyssal fire. Demonic Servants. Once messengers and executors of the will of their gods, they now serve Demon Princes as assassins and generals, often leading shadow demons in their missions. Twisted and vengeful, they scheme and bide their time until an opportunity presents itself where they can wreak havoc and deal the most damage against their former gods who have forsaken them, often striking at those who worship them. Traits Fiendish Weapons. The shaytan's weapon attacks are magical. When the shaytan hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 27 (6d8) necrotic damage (included in the attack). Actions Multiattack. The shaytan makes two Greatsword attacks. It can use Life Drain in place of one Greatsword attack. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d6 + 8) slashing damage plus 27 (6d8) necrotic damage. Slaying Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, range 120/600 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 27 (6d8) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature that has 100 hit points or fewer, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or die. Flying Sword. The shaytan releases its Greatsword to hover magically in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of it. If the shaytan can see the sword, the shaytan can mentally command it as a bonus action to fly up to 50 feet and either make one attack against a target or return to the shaytan's hands. If the hovering sword is targeted by any effect, the shaytan is considered to be holding it. The hovering sword falls if the shaytan dies. Life Drain (4/Day). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 36 (8d8) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Spellcasting. The shaytan casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 24): At will: detect evil and good, invisibility (self only) 3/day each: blade barrier, create undead (as an action), fire storm 1/day each: control weather (as an action), insect plague Bonus Actions Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the shaytan takes the Hide action. Shadow Step. While in dim light or darkness, the shaytan teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. It has advantage on the first melee attack it makes before the end of the turn. Legendary Actions The shaytan can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The shaytan regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Teleport. The shaytan magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Necrotic Burst (Costs 2 Actions). The shaytan emits magical abyssal energy. Each creature of its choice in a 10-foot radius must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Dreadful Glare (Costs 3 Actions). The shaytan targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 24 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be frightened. While frightened in this way, the target is paralyzed. A frightened creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with a success. If the target's saving throw is successful, the target is immune to the shaytan's gaze for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

