# Shedu Enlightened One

**description**: Shedu Wise and incredibly intelligent, the shedu travel the planes to extoll the virtues of goodness and order. It resembles a winged, muscular bull that has a humanoid head with dwarven features. Ornamental armor and jewelry adorn its body, hair, and intricately braided beard. Champion of Good and Order. The shedu is a relentlessly logical thinker and contemplative being, and, thus, it isn't a surprise that it is often mistaken for being too stoic or strict. The shedu selflessly lives to maintain order and defend against evil creatures, especially demons and githyankis. In combat, it tramples its foes with its powerful, psionic-enhanced hooves. It supplements its melee attacks with its powerful psychic abilities, enabling it to incapacitate and outmaneuver enemies. Lawful Allies. The shedu lives mainly in the Material Plane, preferring warm and dry climates. It often resides in or near monasteries, temples, and shrines dedicated to deities of Law and Good, sometimes working with clerics, paladins, monks, and other creatures who share their views, such as archons, angels, couatls, guardian nagas, ki-rins, and lammasus. More powerful shedim, such as the greater shedu and enlightened ones, spend most of their time either in meditation, training monk psions, or wandering the planes. It is not uncommon for adventurers to seek help from these shedim, especially if it concerns traveling to the Astral and Outer Planes. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the shedu fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Rational Mind. The shedu has advantage on Intelligence and Wisdom saving throws. Sure-Footed. The shedu has advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would knock it prone. Actions Multiattack. The shedu makes two Hoof attacks. Hoof. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) psychic damage. Spellcasting. The shedu casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: absorb elements (4th level), clairvoyance, telekinesis 2/day each: blur, dominate person, feather fall, misty step 1/day each: astral projection, banishment, haste, stoneskin* *The shedu casts this spell on itself before combat. Etherealness. The shedu magically enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. Trample (Recharge 5-6). The shedu moves up to its speed in a straight line. During this move, it can enter Medium or smaller creatures' spaces. A creature whose space the shedu enters must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is pushed 5 feet to the nearest space out of the shedu's path. On a failed save, the creature falls prone and takes 23 (4d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 21 (6d6) psychic damage. If the shedu remains in the prone creature's space, the creature is also restrained until it's no longer in the same space as the shedu. While restrained in this way, the creature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC 19 Strength check. On a success, the creature is shunted to an unoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the shedu and is no longer restrained. Mind Hammer (3/Day). The shedu targets a creature it can see within 60 feet of it and psychically slams the creature’s mind. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or take 40 (9d8) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The shedu can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The shedu regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The shedu moves up to half its speed. Hoof (Costs 2 Actions). The shedu makes a Hoof attack. Psionics (Costs 3 Actions). The shedu uses Etherealness, Mind Hammer, or Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

