# Shetani

**description**: What first appeared to be a wandering traveler is something more. Horns curl from a broad brow beneath a protective headwrap. Two black eyes and a crooked nose sit above a grinning mouth—snarled teeth protrude on one side and sit straight and even on the other. One leg ends in a booted foot; the other, a cloven hoof. Shapeshifting fiends that prowl savannahs and deserts, shetani seek intelligent creatures to torment. Shetani entertain themselves by using their magic to lead mortals astray, giving false directions or advice or disguising dangers along a path with illusions. Asymmetrical. All shetani are asymmetrical in some way—mismatched eyes, one ear larger than the other, a limb an inch or two shorter than the other of the pair—varying with the individual. This asymmetry carries over into the different forms they assume. Banished from Hell. Once powerful devils, the shetani have been banished to the mortal realm. Some seek to bribe their way back into the infernal hierarchy with captured souls. Others prefer life among mortals, taking what they will from the weak, without chafing at the strictures of infernal politics. Soul Merchants. Shetani often bargain for souls. A shetani may lead a creature into danger, then offer rescue in exchange for its soul. A shetani trades its ill-gotten goods with demons, devils, and night hags alike, uninterested in planar politics. Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the shetani's darkvision. Magic Resistance . The shetani has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Necrotic Weapons. Shetani weapon attacks are magical. When the shetani hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4d8 necrotic damage (included in the attack). Actions Multiattack . The shetani makes three Claw or Necrotic Bolt attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 18 (4d8) necrotic damage. Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (5d8 + 5) necrotic damage. Desiccating Breath (Recharge 5-6). The shetani inhales sharply, drawing moisture from surrounding creatures. Each creature that isn't a Construct or Undead within 15 feet of the shetani must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 54 (12d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If a creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it suffers one level of exhaustion. Spellcasting . The shetani casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: charm person, silent image 3/day each: major image, suggestion 1/day each: mirage arcane (as an action), programmed illusion Bonus Actions Change Shape . The shetani transforms into a Large or smaller Beast or Humanoid, or back into its true form, which is a Fiend. Without wings, it loses its flying speed. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying is transformed as desired by the shetani, taking whatever color or shape it deems appropriate. It reverts to its true form if it dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

