# Shikigami

**description**: These small constructs can be created through relatively simple rituals that tie the newly created beings to their creator. Paper is commonly used, allowing them to be folded flat and rest inside books, or even flutter about on butterfly wings. Shikigami follow the directions of their creator (for the most part) and can perform simple tasks or remember conversations. Shikigami are often crafted from paper or other common materials, but they can also be fashioned out of dirt, loose bits of metal, liquids, or even small flames. They sometimes take the shape of small, ghostly figures with humanoid forms or animal forms as the ritualist desires. Depending on the sorts of invocations used to animate a shikigami, some common forms are: Air: Birds, butterflies, bats, moths Earth: Mice, rats, spiders Fire: Dragonflies, fireflies, centipedes Water: Fish, frogs, salamanders When a shikigami is created, its creator invests it with one or more invocations. The more powerful the invocations invested into a shikigami, the more powerful, cunning, and willful it becomes. The shikigami’s creator cannot use invocations invested in the shikigami, but can perform them through the shikigami. When a shikigami’s physical form is destroyed, the spirit persists, and can be placed into a new vessel later by its creator. Table A-14: Shikigami Motivations D6 Roll Shikigami Motivations 1 Desires to cause trouble for its own sake. 2 Seeks to pursue some indolent pleasure instead of work whenever possible. 3 Collects small objects or tokens of some kind. 4 Enjoys new experiences, and seeks them out even when it is inconvenient. 5 Desires to become human, or perhaps something more. 6 Desires to discover a greater philosophical purpose. Traits Imbued with Power. If a shikigami is invested with one or more invocations of a particular element (Air, Earth, Fire, or Water), it gains the following bonuses based on the element(s) of those invocations: Air: Gains additional Dexterity equal to two times the tier of the highest tier air invocation imbued in it. If it has 14 or more Dexterity, it can appear as any mundane creature of its size, and an onlooker must make an Intelligence (Investigation) check with DC equal to its creator’s invocation save DC to determine that it is a construct. Earth: Gains additional hit points equal to five times the tier of the highest tier earth invocation imbued in it. If it has 6 or more hit points, the shikigami is Small instead of tiny and its AC is 14. If it has 11 or more hit points, it is Medium instead of Small and its AC is 13. Fire: Gains additional Intelligence equal to two times the tier of the highest tier fire invocation imbued in it. If its intelligence is 14 or higher, its creator gains a +2 bonus to skill checks while it is within 5 feet. Water: Gains additional Charisma equal to two times the tier of the highest tier water invocation imbued in it. If it has 14 or more Charisma, the shikigami can speak and sign Rokugani in addition to being able to understand it. Invocation. On its turn, a shikigami’s creator can spend a bonus action and favor up to their Intelligence modifier to have the shikigami perform one of the invocations sealed inside of it with that much additional favor to spend on the invocation’s empowerments. Unspent favor is lost. Actions Sharp Edge. Melee Weapon Attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1 slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: construct
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 1/8

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

