# Shoggoth

**description**: Borne of the malice of Elder Evils, a shoggoth is a manifestation of Far Realm insanity and unadulterated hatred. These unfathomable creatures take myriad forms, but all seem to retain similar features; their bodies can flow around beings like ooze or turn into an acidic gas, they emit a constant, maddening wailing, and their touch is death. Summoned Madness. A shoggoth is not a being that occurs naturally on the Material Plane. Their kind are found in the void between the stars, deep in the Far Realm. Cultists of certain antediluvian societies have discovered a method through which a shoggoth can be bought to the Material Plane, though even they are cautious to do so. Traits Amorphous. The shoggoth can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Maddening Wailing. The shoggoth emits a constant, hideous wailing. Each creature that starts its turn within 20 feet of the shoggoth and can hear the wailing must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the creature can’t take reactions until the start of its next turn and rolls a d8 to determine what it does during its turn. On a 1 to 4, the creature does nothing. On a 5 or 6, the creature takes no action or bonus action and uses all of its movement to move in a randomly determined direction. On a 7 or 8, the creature makes a melee attack against a randomly determined creature within its reach or does nothing if it can’t make such an attack. Spider Climb. The shoggoth can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Unfathomable Form. When a creature that can see the shoggoth starts its turn within 30 feet of the shoggoth, it must make a DC 14 Charisma saving throw. A creature that fails the save is driven insane by the nightmarish form of the shoggoth, and suffers a short-term madness effect. A target that succeeds on the saving throw is immune to the Unfathomable Form of all shoggoths for the next 24 hours. Actions Multiattack. The shoggoth makes two tentacle attacks. If both attacks hit a Medium or smaller target, the target is grappled (escape DC 13), and the shoggoth uses its Engulf on it. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) psychic damage. Engulf. The shoggoth engulfs a Medium or smaller creature grappled by it. The engulfed target is blinded, restrained, and unable to breathe, and it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of the shoggoth’s turns or take 16 (3d10) psychic damage. If the shoggoth moves, the engulfed target moves with it. The shoggoth can have only one creature engulfed at a time. Gaseous Transformation. The shoggoth transforms into acidic gas or reverts to its true form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying is also transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. While in mist form, the shoggoth is incapacitated. It has a flying speed of 20 feet, can hover, and can pass through any space that isn’t airtight. It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws, and is immune to nonmagical damage. While in gas form, the shoggoth can enter a creature’s space and stop there. Each time that creature starts its turn with the shoggoth in its space, the creature must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

