# Shroompy Sigma

**description**: Shroompies & Shroomogs Hardy and highly intelligent, shroompies, also known as mushroom puppies, are a curious combination between fungi and dogs. Their remarkable toughness and versatility have allowed shroompies to spread across many worlds. Wherever they find themselves, shroompies are instantly recognizable by their distinctive mushroom cap and the special skin membranes that allow them to glide. The Shroompy Cycle. Being beasts and fungi both, shroompies have an unusual life cycle that fascinates sages. Shroompies are born from spores that grow on the back of shroomogs. Shroomogs, also known as mushroom dogs, are shroompies that become enlarged and develop morphological features that allow them to grow more shroompies on their backs. Most shroompies can live indefinitely in their puppy form, and only a few shroompies will undergo the transformation into a shroomog. A Taste for Poison. Shroompies and shroomogs find the taste and smell of most poisonous substances irresistible. They will eagerly seek out and devour poisoned food, and even gulp down poison straight from the bottle if given the chance. This makes shroompies and shroomogs excellent for detecting poison, but not ideal companions for adventurers who deal in poisons themselves. Sporal Hibernation. When faced with extreme conditions such as freezing cold or the vacuum of the void, shroompies and shroomogs are able to enter a state of near-zero metabolic activity known as sporal hibernation. When transformed in this way, they become remarkably durable and can lie dormant almost indefinitely, until they reach favorable conditions that allow them to wake up again. Shroompy Likes: eating poison, playing fetch, the color orange Dislikes : being bored, being kept on a leash, firecrackers The typical shroompy is curious, friendly, and remarkably eager to help, which has led shroompies to become best pals with numerous adventurers across the dimensions. Their ability to sniff out poison (if only to consume it), coupled with their fantastic reflexes when asked to fetch, makes shroompies invaluable allies, in addition to fun-loving buddies. Shroompies remember the orange color of their shroomog parent and instinctively like anything orange as a result. Familiar. At the gamemaster’s discretion, a player character who can cast find familiar may choose the form of a shroompy for their familiar. Shroompy Sigma Likes: independence, protecting its pack, running wild Dislikes : losing, sneaky enemies, being yelled at The most daring and independent shroompies, and those who repeatedly take risks to protect their pack from a young age, might undergo a transformation to become shroompy sigmas. Though they are pack creatures, shroompies have no strict hierarchy. Everyone in a shroompy pack (sometimes known as a shroompy colony) does their part, from the tiniest shroompy that just jumped off its parent’s orange back, to the most ancient shroomog. Shroompy sigmas are rugged and adventurous shroompies that often return home bruised and battered from some brawl. Though they might appear solitary, sigmas care deeply about their pack and will get into all sorts of trouble to keep danger away from those they seek to protect. Shroompy sigmas are more likely to further transform into shroomogs than the average shroompy. This is reflected in their ability to eject slumber spores that can render enemies unconscious long enough for other shroompies to escape to safety. Pact of the Chain Familiar. At the gamemaster’s discretion, a warlock with a pact of the chain may choose the form of a shroompy sigma for their familiar. Optional Rule: Talking Shroompies and Shroomogs Typical shroompies and shroomogs can’t speak in a way humanoids understand, but they are exceptionally intelligent and capable of communicating complex concepts between them. At the gamemaster’s discretion, player characters may encounter talking shroompies, or they may find ways to allow their shroompy friends to speak. Such methods might include adding a new function to the awaken spell, which could allow the caster to bestow speech to already-intelligent targets. Shroomog Likes: carrying shroompies on its back, barking loudly, head pats Dislikes : seeing shroompies in danger, saddles, explosions Exceptionally tough and loyal, a shroomog’s stamina is only matched by its urge to protect its friends and the shroompies under its care. A typical shroomog usually carries several developing shroompies on its back, which look like mushroom caps peeking out of the shroomog’s orange fur. When faced with danger, a shroomog won’t hesitate to use its slumber spores on any aggressor. Greater Steed. At the gamemaster’s discretion, a player character who can obtain a greater steed through magic may choose the form of a shroomog for their greater steed. Shroomog Mossback Likes: contemplating the meaning of life, random acts of kindness, children Dislikes : being told it’s too old, wanton destruction, seeing its friends sad Towering over playful shroompies and young shroomogs, mossbacks are ancient shroomogs that have lived full lives and created countless shroompies. Covered in poisonous moss and boasting terrifying strength, a shroomog mossback might seem intimidating at first, but these gentle giants are benevolent and wise, and still springy shroompies at heart. A shroomog mossback will often ponder the meaning of life and reminisce its vast past staying virtually unmoving as young shroompies climb on its mossy back and use its dried cap as a platform for gliding. If threatened, a shroomog mossback will first try to put enemies to sleep with its potent torpor spores and avoid violence, but it will charge into combat with its full might if its friends are in danger. Shroompy Reborn. A shroomog mossback has stopped producing shroompy spores long ago, yet one last spore remains on its back. When the mossback’s body finally gives in to old age, the ancient creature will be reborn through that final spore, which will grow into a new shroompy with the mossback’s memories and jump off to play with the other younglings. A reborn shroomog mossback will often guide its pack and will have a higher chance of becoming a shroompy sigma as it ages. In time, such a shroompy may eventually grow up to become a shroomog mossback again, continuing the cycle.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: plant (fungofauna)
- Alignment: typically chaotic good
- Expansion: 18016
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Cute Creatures Compendium

