# Shtriga Nonna

**description**: Traits Feline Resilience ( 3 /Day). When Shtriga Nonna fails a saving throw, she can immediately turn into a cat of her size (Medium in her normal form, Large while under the effect of Grow) and succeed instead. While in cat form, Shtriga Nonna retains her game statistics and ability to speak, except she can’t cast spells or use Soul Steal. She reverts to her previous form at the end of her next turn. Supernatural Resistance. Shtriga Nonna has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other super­natural effects. Actions Multiattack. Shtriga Nonna makes two Corrosive Claw attacks. She can replace one attack with a use of Soul Steal, if available. Corrosive Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. (10 ft. with Grow), one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage, or 14 (3d6 + 4) slashing damage while under the effect of Grow. If the target is wearing mundane metal armor, they must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity throw or their armor takes a permanent and cumulative −1 penalty to the AC it offers. If the armor is reduced to an AC of 10, it is destroyed. Soul Steal (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Shtriga Nonna inhales deeply in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Shtriga Nonna regains 10 hit points for each creature who fails this saving throw. Bonus Actions Grow ( 2 /Day; 3 rd-Level Spell). For 1 minute, Shtriga Nonna magically increases in size, along with anything she is wearing or carrying. While enlarged, she is Large, her reach becomes 10 feet, she deals an extra 3 (1d6) damage on Strength-based weapon attacks (included in the attacks), and she makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage. If Shtriga Nonna lacks the room to become Large, she attains the maximum size possible in the space available. Gobble You Up. Shtriga Nonna feeds on the body of an unconscious creature within 5 feet of her. The target takes 10 (3d6) piercing damage, and Shtriga Nonna recharges her Soul Steal action. Reactions Turned Upside Down. When a creature hits Shtriga Nonna with a melee attack, she magically reverses gravity around her. Each creature within 5 feet of her must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or rise vertically 10 feet into the air. A creature levitating in this way remains suspended until the end of their next turn, then falls unless they have an ability that keeps them aloft. Villain Actions Shtriga Nonna has three villain actions. She can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. She can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Snackies for Sweeties. The air within 30 feet of Shtriga Nonna magically fills with the scent of rotten food. Each other creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Creatures are affected even if they hold their breath or don’t need to breathe. Action 2 : Feline Felicity. Shtriga Nonna grows four cat legs in a burst of magical energy. Each creature within 5 feet of her must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (4d4) force damage and is pushed 10 feet away from her. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed. Shtriga Nonna can then move up to twice her speed, after which the extra cat legs disappear. Action 3 : Open the Oven. Shtriga Nonna opens a portal to her massive oven in the palms of her hands, creating a blast of heat and noise in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) fire damage plus 13 (3d8) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Utility Spells In addition to any other spells in this stat block, Shtriga Nonna can cast the following spells, using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: alter self A , detect thoughts A , thaumaturgy A 3/day each: fabricate + , legend lore + 1/day: scrying +

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

