# Silent Crier

**description**: A hunched figure stoops under the weight of a massive bronze bell that hangs above its head, held aloft by sturdy metal rods affixed to its shoulders. A veil obscures a face with eyes and mouth sewn shut, and tattered robes cover a slender body. Silent criers were first created by ancient gods of madness to spread terror and strife across the land in their name. Now, often given life and form by powerful cults or mad wizards, silent criers are used to weaken and demoralize a people before their final death knell is rung. For Whom the Bell Tolls. Inscribed with ancient spells and curses, each bell saturates the body of the chosen bearer with dark magic, twisting the bearer into its pitiable form and granting it fearsome power. Endless Knell. The bell atop the silent crier is silent only when the crier stops to receive orders from the cult, temple, or deity it serves. At all other times, the bell rings endlessly, as the silent crier forever marches and sways, drowning out all sound, thought, and feeling. Broken Silence. The bell of the silent crier is infused with ancient and powerful magic, ensuring all creatures know the bell's significance. The silent crier's Bell Toll action affects even creatures that are deafened or can't otherwise hear the bell's ringing. Actions Multiattack. The silent crier makes two Slam attacks and uses Bell Toll. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack : +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Bell Toll. The silent crier wracks its body, causing the bell affixed to it to toll, producing one of the following effects. The silent crier can't use the same effect two rounds in a row. Concussive Knell. The bell tolls with a crippling chime. Each creature within 20 feet of the silent crier must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the silent crier's next turn. Crushing Toll. The bell tolls with a thunderous strike. Each creature within 20 feet of the silent crier must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Endless Ringing. The silent crier sways back and forth rapidly, producing an endless, piercing ringing. The silent crier must take a bonus action on its subsequent turns to continue this ringing, and it can end the ringing at any time. While using Endless Ringing, the silent crier can't move or use Bell Toll. When a creature enters a space within 60 feet of the silent crier for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be deafened and unable to cast spells with verbal components until the start of its next turn. Herald of Dread. The silent crier chimes one terror-inducing note. Each creature within 60 feet of the silent crier must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the silent crier's Herald of Dread for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

