# Siren Queen

**description**: Sirens are aquatic creatures with the upper body of an alluring sea elf female and the lower body of a giant flying fish. Their humanoid bodies usually have pale blue or green skin, while their fish bodies have colorful scales ranging from sea blue to emerald green. Their fins are bright orange-red or orange-yellow and end with sharp, poisonous spines. Often mistaken for mermaids, sirens are cunning and deceitful predators. Enchanting Singers. Sirens lurk in shallow waters, coral reefs, and atolls, waiting for passing ships. Once one is within their range, they lure unwitting sailors and passengers to their doom with their enchanting songs. Those under the siren's spell are drawn to the source and, entranced, jump overboard from the ship. Once a victim is in the water, the sirens rush towards their prey and devour it alive, tearing its flesh with their vicious claws and sharp teeth. Winged Gliders. Unlike mermaids, sirens have the limited ability to fly; they can propel themselves out of the water with their powerful tails, leaping several feet into the air before using their pectoral fins to lift and glide over a short distance. Sirens usually use their gliding ability to escape enemies, but sometimes they employ it to pick off lone targets. They do this by gliding quietly toward a target and striking them dead with their venomous fin spines. Monstrous Companions. Sirens are normally encountered in groups, sometimes led by a witch or a queen. It is not unusual for sirens to work with sea hags and merrows. A Siren Queen's Lair A siren queen lives in sunken ruins, underwater caverns, and treacherous coral reefs. A siren queen attracts the company of evil merfolk and merrows. A siren queen encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 9 (5,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the siren can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the siren can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The siren sees a vision of her immediate future. Until initiative count 20 on the next round, the siren gains advantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. In addition, other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls against the siren for the duration. Creatures within 120 feet of the siren have disadvantage to saving throws made against being charmed until initiative count 20 on the next round. The siren magically emits short bursts of lightning. Each creature within 30 feet of the siren must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 17 (5d6) lightning damage and is incapacitated until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't incapacitated. Traits Amphibious. The siren can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the siren fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The siren makes one Claws attack and one Fin Spines attack. Alternatively, it can make two Lightning Lash attacks. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) slashing damage. Fin Spines. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) piercing damage. The target must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Lightning Lash. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) lightning damage and the target can't use reactions until the end of the siren's next turn. Luring Song. The siren sings a magical melody. Every humanoid and giant within 300 feet of the siren that can hear the song must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the song ends. The siren must take a bonus action on its subsequent turns to continue singing. It can stop singing at any time. The song ends if the siren is incapacitated. While charmed by the siren, a target is incapacitated and ignores the songs of other sirens. If the charmed target is more than 5 feet away from the siren, the target must move on its turn toward the siren by the most direct route, trying to get within 5 feet. It doesn't avoid opportunity attacks, but before moving into damaging terrain, such as lava or a pit, and whenever it takes damage from a source other than the siren, the target can repeat the saving throw. A charmed target can also repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If the saving throw is successful, the effect ends on it. A target that successfully saves is immune to this siren's Luring Song for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The siren casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: dancing lights, minor illusion, thaumaturgy 3/day each: blindness/deafness, disguise self, mage armor 1/day each: bestow curse, chain lightning, dominate person, ice storm, polymorph, spirit guardians Bonus Actions Wing Glide (Recharge 4–6). The siren gains a flying speed of 40 until the end of the turn. Legendary Actions The siren can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The siren regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The siren attacks with its Claws. Command Thrall (Costs 1-3 Actions). Up to 3 creatures within 60 feet of the siren that is charmed by the siren must use their reaction to move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack against a visible target of the siren's choice. It costs 1 legendary action per creature. Lightning Lash (Costs 2 Actions). The siren use Lightning Lash. Spellcasting (Costs 3 Actions). The siren uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

