# Sister of the Veil

**description**: The Sisters of the Veil are four pixie sisters who've dedicated their lives to the creation – and trade – of magic items. With personalities as varied as the enchantments they can craft, a visit to the Sisters of the Veil is an interesting experience even if one doesn't buy any of their many magic treasures or make use of their enchanting services. The Sisters of the Veil are imbued with fey magic and can conjure forth a mostly illusory shop that looks like whatever they think would draw most customers. If found in a city, their shop might be a richly decorated boutique – in truth, likely just a hovel they've spruced up with illusions – and if found outdoors, it might be a forest glade filled with bright sunlight and birdsong. Background Once, the Sisters of the Veil were like most pixies; carefree and gleeful, living a life of peaceful enjoyment in their Fey Realm. One fateful day, however, disaster struck: without warning, powerful magic immobilized the four sisters and a sinister, robed figure wandered between them, plucking them effortlessly from the air and stuffing them into a dark sack. When they recovered their senses, the sisters found themselves locked in a gilded cage in a luxurious throne room. Under the strict supervision of Barlan the Black, a powerful archmage, the pixie sisters were forced to spend most their days singing and dancing before the young princess Ellura, while Barlan governed the realm in the princess' stead. Only ten years of age, Ellura had taken the throne after her parents died of a mysterious illness (of Barlan's make, as it would later be discovered). At night, the sisters were forced to toil in Barlan's workshop, as the wizard exploited their innate magic to enchant wondrous magical artifacts. Several years passed in this way; the realm suffering under Barlan's tyrannical rule while the princess was kept blissfully distracted by her pixie "friends.” Eventually, however, the sisters grew to become the young princess' confidantes and when they told her of their plight and the scope of Barlan's evil, the princess was aghast. Together, the sisters and Ellura concocted a plan to rid the realm of the dangerous wizard – a plan that involved the creation and use of several magic artifacts. Though it was not easy, the plan succeeded and Barlan was forced into exile. Grateful and ashamed of how she'd been misled, the princess immediately freed the sisters from their bondage and bequeathed them all the wonders they had created while in Barlan's employ. Armed with their freedom and a hoard of magical treasures – and bereft of the careless innocence they had once possessed – the sisters remained in the Material Plane and dedicated themselves to the creation and sale of magical items. Roleplaying the Sisters The four pixie sisters are curious and compassionate. They are always interested in the exotic and mysterious, and they always show kindness to the distraught and downtrodden. Beyond that, their temperaments vary greatly. Bellamy is the youngest of the sisters, and the most outgoing and open. She lives in the moment, and is quick to forget the past, especially if it's uncomfortable ("Why dwell on darkness when the sun's shining and the birds are singing?”) She is a flirtatious speed-talker who loves engaging strangers with compliments and playful jabs in equal measures. Larkspur, the second-youngest sister, is the most shy and solitary. She'll smile at strangers, but rarely speaks unless spoken to. She's immensely creative and her mind will drift, even during conversations, as she crafts new wonders in her mind. Sylva is the second-oldest sister, and the most thoughtful and insightful. Prone to maudlin, her years in captivity still weighs heavily upon her. To cope, she likes to shut out the outside world as she spends most of her waking moments hard at work. Faelan is the oldest sister, and the strongest and most willful. During their captivity, Faelan became responsible for her sisters, working twice as hard so she could ease their burdens, and purposefully provoking the evil Barlan to direct his anger at her instead of them. Though free, Faelan is still protective of her sisters and deeply distrustful of strangers – especially humans ("Can't truly trust anyone who measures their lives in years and their height in feet, as I see it!”)

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: Fey (Pixie)
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 27827
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Wanderer's Guide to Enchanted Emporiums

