# Skabatha Nightshade

**description**: Skabatha is the oldest member of the Hourglass Coven. Better known as Granny Nightshade, she offers her assistance to those who are haunted by regret. Her deals often result in cruel twists; for example, a petitioner who asks to be reunited with a lost love might be transformed into one of their loved one’s cherished items, such as a favorite bonnet. Skabatha assumes the guise of an old toymaker. Part toy herself, she has a windup key between her hunched shoulders that rotates quickly when she’s in a good mood and slows down as her mood sours. When she is furious, the key comes to a dead stop. Alignment. Neutral evil. Personality Trait. “When dealing with outsiders, I present myself as a kindly old grandmother.” Ideal. “Children are better off working for me than picking up lots of bad habits.” Bond. “I hate my sisters, but together we are strong.” Flaw. “I forget the first creature I see each day when I awaken.” Skabatha’s Appearance Skabatha appears as a short, thin, gnarled woman swathed in a tattered dress with petticoats. Cracked white face paint plasters her features, with crimson splotches on her cheeks and thick mascara coating her sparse eyelashes. Underneath her makeup, her flesh is textured like rotten bark and infested with wood lice and fungus. The windup key sticking out of her back is a part of her body and no easier to remove than one of her limbs. Skabatha roams Thither on her flying rocking horse , which creaks horribly as it moves. Skabatha’s Weakness Skabatha always forgets the first creature she sees when she awakens after a long rest. See below for details. Traits Boon of Immortality. Skabatha is immune to any effect that would age her, and she can’t die from old age. Forgetfulness. The first creature that Skabatha sees after she finishes a long rest is invisible to her. She can’t remember seeing the creature or perceive it using her truesight until the end of her next long rest. Actions Multiattack. Skabatha makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 25 (6d6 + 4) poison damage. Spellcasting. Skabatha casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: detect magic, druidcraft, speak with animals 2/day each: polymorph, remove curse, speak with plants 1/day each: awaken (as an action), plane shift (self only) Bonus Actions Alter Size. Skabatha magically shrinks herself to Tiny size (between 4 and 8 inches tall) or returns to her normal size. If Skabatha lacks the room to return to her normal size, she attains the maximum size possible in the space available. Anything she is wearing or carrying changes size along with her. As a Tiny creature, Skabatha deals 2 (1d4) poison damage when she hits with a Claw attack. She has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks, and disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. Her statistics otherwise remain unchanged. Hourglass Coven The Hourglass Coven is a group of three hags, each one bound to an aspect of time: one reflects the past, another reflects the present, and the third reflects the future. These hags are utter wickedness distilled into corporeal forms, driven by a lust for secrets that can be used to manipulate their prey. Skabatha Nightshade, Bavlorna Blightstraw, and Endelyn Moongrave are daughters of Baba Yaga. The three became wild with jealousy when Iggwilv, Baba Yaga’s adopted daughter, surpassed them in power and carved out a Feywild domain for herself in the guise of an archfey named Zybilna. The hags wormed their way into Iggwilv’s good graces, biding their time until they could wrest the domain from her clutches. They waited until Iggwilv was lured away on an important matter to imbue Iggwilv’s Cauldron with the ability to freeze time. When their sister returned, the hags used this power to trap Iggwilv and her court in temporal stasis. The hags then carved up Iggwilv’s domain, splitting it between them. The sisters couldn’t agree on which of them should keep Iggwilv’s Cauldron , so they left it in Iggwilv’s palace and hired some unscrupulous mercenaries to watch over it. The hags loathe each other’s company, but one hag will occasionally visit another to plot against the third sister, creating a vicious circle in which Bavlorna and Endelyn plot against Skabatha, Endelyn and Skabatha conspire against Bavlorna, and Skabatha and Bavlorna bedevil Endelyn. Nothing much ever comes of these petty plots and squabbles, however. Shared Spells of the Hourglass Coven On the rare occasions when all three hags of the Hourglass Coven are within 30 feet of one another, any one of them can use an action to cast one of the following spells, requiring no material components (spell save DC 14): detect thoughts, dispel magic, finger of death, glibness, locate creature, mass suggestion . Once a spell from this list has been cast, no member of the coven can cast that shared spell again until the next dawn, when the coven regains all of its shared spells.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey (hag)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 11857
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Wild Beyond the Witchlight

