# Skulltaker

**description**: Swirling down from misty peaks and through howling mountain passes like an evil wind, the vortex of bones known as a skulltaker is a terrible manifestation of the delirium and agony experienced by doomed climbers and lost trailblazers just before they met their end. In some places, a skulltaker is also known as a saxra. A skulltaker appears as a looming figure, just over 20 feet tall, with an animal’s head for a skull, bony human arms and hands, and a body that seems little more than a billowing robe decorated with bones. Traits Innate Spellcaster. The skulltaker’s innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 18). The skulltaker can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components. At will: detect magic, magic missile, shield, thunderwave 2/day each: finger of death, disintegrate, fireball Skeletal Lore. A skulltaker taps into the memories of the creatures whose bones make up its body. This gives it the ability to speak and understand all of the languages known by the creatures whose bones make up its body (typically including Common and the regional language of the skulltaker’s home region). Turn Resistance. The skulltaker has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead. Actions Multiattack. The skulltaker makes three attacks. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6+6) slashing damage. Jaw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d10+6) bludgeoning damage. Bone Javelin. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10+3) piercing damage. Reactions Bonetaker. When a creature dies within 60 feet of the skulltaker, its corpse is pulled into the skulltaker’s form. The creature rises as a skeletal champion at the end of the skulltaker’s next turn under the skulltaker’s control, in a space within 5 feet of the skulltaker. Legendary Actions The skulltaker can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The skulltaker regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Cast Spell. The skulltaker casts an at will spell. Energy Drain (Costs 2 Actions). One creature within 30 feet of the skulltaker that the skulltaker can see and that isn’t undead must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 21 (6d6) necrotic damage on a failed save. The skulltaker recovers half the damage done this way, or, if more than 23 damage is dealt, the skulltaker might recover a spent 2/day spell. Splintered Ground (Costs 2 Actions). The skulltaker causes splintered bones to erupt from all solid surfaces in a 100-foot radius, excepting surfaces that are worked stone. A creature moving through the bones takes 5 (1d10) piercing and 5 (1d10) necrotic damage for every 5 feet of movement. The bones remain in place until the skulltaker uses this action again, or the bones are manually removed, which takes 10 minutes for each 5-foot square. From the Shard Swarm (Costs 3 Actions). The skulltaker forms a skeletal champion from its own swirling form. The skeletal champion appears in a space within 5 feet from the skulltaker and is under the control of the skulltaker.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

