# Slaghund

**description**: No. Loud. Noises. Hundy is a sehr light sleeper und our insurance doesn’t cover arson by fire-based fiends that you invite into your laboratory. — Humperdink, Charred Type: Fiend Creature Component: Hell hound and owlbear Bonus Tamer Improvement: Growth I and +2 Hit Dice Instinctive, impulsive, and prone to setting things aflame, this pyromaniac pup’s psyche is almost entirely id. A biomantic mix of hell hound and owlbear, this fiery fiend is an offensive powerhouse, even when a tiny pup. Just be careful not to stand too close to it when you sneeze… slaghunds are jumpy creatures. If any of the slaghund’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the slaghund’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the slaghund’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer Growth I Prerequisite: become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion) The slaghund’s size increases to Small and its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d8 and its Claws to a d6. The slaghund gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Keen Senses Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The slaghund has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks. Hound’s Speed Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The slaghund’s speed increases by 20 feet. Growth II Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type: Passive (companion) The slaghund’s size increases to Medium and its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d10 and its Claws to a d8. Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the slaghund can make two attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Claws. Trailblazer Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action while the slaghund’s Heatable Body trait is active, it can make its fires burn even hotter until the start of its next turn, leaving a trail of devastation behind it. After using this action, each space the slaghund moves into bursts into 5-foothigh flames until the start of its next turn. A creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of these flames, or one that starts its turn in the flames’ space or moves into the flames’ space for the first time on its turn, must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 2 (1d4) fire damage for each 5-foot-square of flames within 5 feet of it if it started its turn next to the flames, or 17 (5d6) fire damage if it is in the flames’ space. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage. After the slaghund uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the slaghund’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, this damage increases to 3 (1d6) and 24 (7d6), respectively. Pack Tactics Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Keen Senses Type: Passive (companion) The slaghund has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the slaghund’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated. White Hot Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion & tamer) The fire damage of the slaghund’s Heatable Body and Heated Weapons traits increases to 1d8. While the slaghund is summoned, its tamer has resistance to fire damage. Growth III Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Growth II Type: Passive (companion) The slaghund’s size increases to Large and its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d12 and its Claws to a d10. Trailblazer II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Trailblazer I Type: Passive (companion) The damage of the slaghund’s Trailblazer action increases to 4 (1d8) and 31 (9d6), respectively. The slaghund gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the slaghund’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage of this action increases to 5 (1d10) and 42 (12d6), respectively. Fiery Aura Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, White Hot Type: Active (action) As an action while the slaghund’s Heatable Body trait is active, it casts the fire shield spell on itself, choosing the warm shield option and requiring no material components. After the slaghund uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

