# Slaughter Knight

**description**: Slaughter knights are formed in the chaos and carnage of battle, and often make their homes in the ruins of keeps and strongholds that fell in such conflicts. in times of strife, they travel to battlefields to feast on the souls of mighty warriors there. if a particularly strong warrior comes to their attention, a slaughter knight might travel even further afield to hunt them down and claim their soul. Appearance. A slaughter knight is a hulking suit of blood-soaked plate armor, standing head and shoulders above the average human, inside which lurks a twisted, howling amalgam of dark flame and corrupted souls. Its weapons are formed from the cursed and blackened steel of its armor, and it can transform them at will to suit its needs. Demonic Armor. Though a slaughter knight’s armor is made not from metal but from its manifested demonic essence, rumors persist of blades forged from the scavenged remnants of a defeated slaughter knight’s plate. According to legend, these blades contain a trapped fragment of a slaughter knight’s bloodthirsty essence, and drink deeply from the souls of those they kill to bestow great power upon the wielder. Honorable Slaughter. Slaughter knights are driven by an insatiable lust for blood and battle. They hunt powerful warriors and seek to consume their souls, increasing their power and thirst for further violence. Despite their brutal nature, slaughter knights abide by a peculiar code of honor. They only attack those they judge to be a worthwhile challenge, and will ignore a weakened or unworthy creature entirely unless that creature is foolish enough to provoke them. A slaughter knight’s sense of worth is not based solely on strength of arms; they acknowledge the devastating power of spellcasters and are just as likely to hunt a wizard as a barbarian. Single-Minded Hunter. A slaughter knight is a relentless and merciless combatant, driven solely by the desire to feed. It singles out the most powerful enemy on the field and attacks them to the exclusion of all others. If its hunt is interrupted by a creature that can’t simply be ignored, the knight shifts its focus to the interloper, seeking to eliminate them as swiftly as possible so it can return to its chosen prey. Slaughter knights are incapable of backing down from a challenge, cannot be reasoned with, and always fight to the death. Tactics. The slaughter knight uses its mobility and considerable defenses to focus on a single target until it is defeated. Its standard use of multiattack consists of a Flash Strike to close the distance if necessary followed by a Hammer Blow to knock its foe prone and then a Brutal Slash to increase its damage potential. Once it has Injured a creature and believes it can finish off that enemy, it targets it with Execute. The slaughter knight also frequently Taunts its foe, using the legendary action to gain temporary hit points and stay in the fight even longer. Once it is sufficiently weakened, the slaughter knight ceases to Taunt its enemies, preferring to use its legendary actions for damage. After killing its initial target, if any enemies remain and appear to be worthy foes, it will select a new target to hunt. Otherwise, it leaves the battlefield in search of new prey. Traits Living Armor. The slaughter knight is immune to effects that would change its form, and is considered a construct in addition to its other creature types. Inescapable Hunter. Whenever the slaughter knight hits with an opportunity attack, its target’s movement speed is reduced to 0 until the end of its turn. Thirsting Blade. If the slaughter knight does not hit its prey with an attack on its turn while in combat with its prey, it loses 10 hit points at the end of its turn. Whenever it reduces a creature to 0 hit points, it gains 30 temporary hit points. Actions Multiattack. The slaughter knight makes three melee attacks, one of which can be a Flash Strike or an Execute. Brutal Slash. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8+5) slashing damage. If the slaughter knight scores a critical hit, it rolls damage three times instead of twice. Additionally, this attack scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Flash Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) slashing damage. The slaughter knight can teleport up to 15 feet to a point within 5 feet of its target before making the attack. If it does, it gains advantage on the attack roll. Hammer Blow. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) slashing damage, and the target must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Execute (1/Rest). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 feet, one target. Hit: 50 (10d8+5) slashing damage. This attack has advantage against an Injured creature. If this attack reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target dies and this ability recharges. Legendary Actions The slaughter knight can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The slaughter knight regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Preparatory Swing. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 feet, one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) slashing damage, and the target’s Injury thresholds are reduced by 5 until the end of the slaughter knight’s next turn. Taunt. The slaughter knight taunts its foe, opening itself to an attack. One creature of the slaughter knight’s choice within 120 feet of the slaughter knight can choose to make an attack or cast a cantrip requiring an attack roll targeting the slaughter knight. If the attack misses, the slaughter knight gains 20 temporary hit points. If the creature chooses not to attack or cast a cantrip, the slaughter knight gains 10 temporary hit points. If the creature can’t attack the slaughter knight, it gains no temporary hit points. Swift Stride. The slaughter knight moves up to 30 feet. Opportunity attacks it provokes as part of this movement have disadvantage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

