# Slitherjack

**description**: At first glance, this levitating creature looks like an opalescent moray eel. As it moves, however, it extends tentacles that pulse and ripple, propelling it through the air as an octopus moves through the water. Slitherjacks haunt fey forests, eldritch swamps, mages’ towers, ruins, dungeons, and other places where magic is likely to be present. Acting as the leeches of the arcane world, slitherjacks feed off the ambient magic that surrounds arcane practitioners and imbues natural fonts of arcane energy, and they can also drain magic items of their power if given the chance. Arcane Scavengers. Slitherjacks consume only magic, and they are not interested in fighting or killing unless a creature stands between them and their next meal. One slitherjack confronted by a group of adventurers might flee, but rarely is just one slitherjack encountered—the presence of magical energy draws them like a flame attracts moths. TRAITS Absorb Energy. If the slitherjack is hit with a magical attack that deals acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, necrotic, thunder, or radiant damage, it regains 1d6 hp. Additionally, it can store some of that energy, and the next time the slitherjack hits with a Tentacle attack, the target takes an extra 1d6 damage of the stored type. Arcane Sensitivity. The slitherjack can innately sense the presence of magic with 300 feet of it and can pinpoint its location. Consume Magic. If the slitherjack has possession of a magic item for more than 10 minutes, it siphons energy from the item, suppressing its magical properties, and the item becomes nonmagical for the next 24 hours. An item that remains in the slitherjack’s possession for 24 continuous hours becomes permanently nonmagical. Limited Telepathy. The slitherjack can magically communicate simple ideas, emotions, and images telepathically with any creature within 60 feet of it that can understand a language. Magic Resistance. The slitherjack has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Scintillating Appearance. The slitherjack’s skin is a constant swirl of disorienting color and light. Any creature that attacks the slitherjack and can see it has disadvantage on its attack roll. ACTIONS Multiattack. The slitherjack makes two Tentacle attacks. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage, and if the target is a creature, it must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the slitherjack takes possession of one magic item the creature is wearing or holding onto. If the slitherjack has four items in its possession, it can no longer make Tentacle attacks. Strobe. The slitherjack flares its tentacles, creating a burst of light and color. Any creature within 30 feet of the slitherjack that can see it must make a successful DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become stunned until the end of the slitherjack’s next turn. REACTIONS Death Burst. When the slitherjack dies, the arcane energy within it explodes. Each creature within 15 feet of the slitherjack must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

