# Slithy Tove

**description**: A small, white anteater with blue fur on its paws and tail, small nubs of horns on its head, and a long tail sits up on four of its six legs. Then, it frenetically leaps into the air, paws at the ground, and jumps in circles. Slithy toves are adorably strange little creatures infused with a touch of fey magic. They love to play. And cheese. They can't get enough cheese. Playful Scavengers. Slithy toves are exceedingly social creatures, living as crowded colonies in large, many-chambered dens they dig out in forests and grasslands. They subsist primarily on vegetation and insects, and they have an intoxicating love of cheese. Because of this, they live close to humanoid settlements, where they raid local stores of cheese. They love to play and turn any scavenging venture into a game. They are intelligent enough to prove very challenging to keep out of cheese stores, and some humanoids, tired of fighting the slithy toves, leave out cheese snacks on regular schedules to appease the creatures and save the rest for market. Bonding Musk. Slithy toves emit a powerful musk that is mildly hallucinogenic to humanoids, making them complicated neighbors. To them, the musk is what bonds them to their colony, and each colony's members share a unique musk. If a colony takes a liking to a humanoid or a humanoid family—especially a humanoid that provides the colony with cheese—colony members might rub their musk on parts of the humanoid's property, showing other slithy toves that humanoid is part of their colony. Distraction. Each creature with an Intelligence of 5 or higher that starts its turn within 5 feet of the slithy tove must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become incapacitated until the start of its next turn, as it hears imaginary murmurings and sees movement in its peripheral vision. On a successful saving throw, the creature has advantage on saving throws against the Distraction of all slighty toves for the next 24 hours. Actions Multiattack. The slithy tove makes two Claw attacks or one Claw attack and one Lick attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 12 (3d4 + 5) slashing damage. Lick. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 10 feet toward the slithy tove. Musk of Clumsiness (Recharge 5-6). The slithy tove discharges musk in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a C 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 10 (3d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't poisoned. When a poisoned creature moves more than 5 feet on its turn, it must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone, stepping in a hole, hitting its head on a branch, tripping over a rock, bumping into an ally, or some other clumsy act. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bonus Actions Hidden Step. The slithy tove magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see and takes the Hide action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

