# Snark

**description**: “They hunted till darkness came on, but they found Not a button, or feather, or mark, By which they could tell that they stood on the ground Where the Baker had met with the Snark. In the midst of the word he was trying to say, In the midst of his laughter and glee, He had softly and suddenly vanished away—” — The Hunting of the Snark by Lewis Carroll Many have hunted the snark in hopes of studying it, while others seek glory or fortune from bounties posted for its capture. The snark is an amorphous creature that feeds on emotions. It is rarely seen, and those who claim to have done so provide varying details of its description. Some snark sightings report that the creatures have feathers and bite, while others claim the fey have whiskers and scratch. Though many have tried to capture the snark, few have succeeded. In fact, many have never returned to tell their tale. Tactics . In truth, the snark is a creature of powerful psychic ability. It has no true form, at least none that it allows to be seen. Because it is a creature that cannot be truly perceived, the snark is a formidable foe. It uses its actions to read the thoughts of a target to glean useful information before engaging in combat. If attacked, the snark then uses this information against the target to cause psychic damage. Amorphous . The snark can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Antipathy/Sympathy Aura . When a creature starts its turn within 15 feet of the snark and the snark is not incapacitated, the creature must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the snark’s Antipathy/Sympathy Aura for the next 24 hours. On a failed save, the target can’t take reactions and must roll a d6 on its next turn: 1–4. The target becomes frightened until the start of its next turn. While frightened, the target must use its movement on its turn to move away from the snark (even if it can’t see the snark). 5–6. The target feels an intense urge to approach the snark and must use its movement on its turn to get as close to the snark as possible (even if it can’t see the snark). Freedom of Movement . The snark ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can’t reduce its speed. Inscrutable . The snark is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, and can choose to be unaffected by any divination spell. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the snark’s intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Invisibility . The snark is invisible. Actions Multiattack . The snark makes two melee attacks. Phantasmal Touch . Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature that isn’t blinded. Hit : 26 (4d10 + 4) psychic damage as the snark takes on an illusory form, lashes out, then disappears. If the target has no image of the snark’s appearance, the snark creates an illusion drawn from the target’s deepest fears. Psychic Drain . Melee Weapon Attack : +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) psychic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Read Thoughts . The snark magically reads the surface thoughts of one creature within 60 feet of it. The effect can penetrate barriers, but 3 feet of wood or dirt, 2 feet of stone, 2 inches of metal, or a thin sheet of lead blocks it. While the target is in range, the snark can continue reading its thoughts, as long as the snark’s concentration isn’t broken (as if concentrating on a spell). While reading the target’s mind, the snark has advantage on Wisdom (Insight) and Charisma (Deception, Intimidation, and Persuasion) checks against the target.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 23348
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 13

