# Sor Gullion

**description**: Master of Monstrosities As the middle son of House Gullion, Sor was neither favored nor ignored, and was mostly left to his own devices. He spent a lot of his early life entertaining himself. As time went by and with little interest in politics, he began to trek through the Underworld and explore the darker recesses around the city. Seeing Sor’s affinity for the tunnels that surround Holoth and the creatures that inhabit them, Maelora tasked him with collecting a menagerie for her amusement. Sor was initially reluctant to comply. It was one thing to see them fight in order to survive, or be able to eat or protect young, but another to wantonly slay them. Even sacrificing them served a more noble purpose than goading them to simply slaughter each other. However over time he realized that he couldn’t disobey the Matriarch for long, and so he did what she expected of him. Sor had a special area built under the palace built so that he had a place to coach the beasts he found and enhance their natural abilities rather than reduce them to fear-driven, feral versions of themselves. Cave fishers, chokers, giant centipedes, a few morlocks, and troglodytes were the first specimens that Sor recruited, specimens found by the young man himself and brought back to the city with help from drow rangers, but Maelora wanted more. Soon after, he added a rare albino otyugh to his collection, and his reputation began to grow. Then as success came after success and his methods began to attract more attention, Maelora made the suggestion to him to bring in surface animals, as they were all but unseen in the Underworld and prizes from above would raise his profile considerably. It was no secret that he was more comfortable around the animals and monsters of the Underworld than with other drow. As a result, Sor made several forays to the surface world by himself initially, and concentrated on gathering natural animals. He brought back bears, wolves and tundra tigers. His confidence grew, and he began to take two or three trusted helpers with him which allowed him to capture and retrieve, with some difficulty, a two-headed troll. But these were not enough for Maelora; she craved-demanded-something new, unique even. With some trepidation, Sor went far onto the surface and captured his first human, a Vikmordere hunter from deep within the Dark Wood. His mother was delighted. The man sated her desire for new types of humanoids, but Sor knew that she’d want a “commodity” even more reputation-enhancing soon after. Sor continued to hunt the Underworld for unusual examples of beasts the city was aware of, the better to understand how different environments could warp the creatures that lived in them. On one of his journeys to discover new creatures, he found that a giant spider followed him, always staying out of harm’s reach, not that the young man was interested in hurting it. But Sor could feel the eight eyes on him as he walked, almost as physically as if one of the arachnid’s forelegs was brushing against him to guide him. After a few hours of animals being scared away by the beast, Sor finally stopped and turned to the creature. It was as well he did, because he had almost walked into an ambush laid by dwarven members of House Casisto, who while themselves were usually interested only in animals, wouldn’t have hesitated in dealing with the drow. Sor had been so intent on his own hunt that he’d failed to spot the magic the dwarves were using to conceal themselves and their snares. Discretion being the better part of valor, Sor stepped away from the encounter as the spider suggested. Then after a strange exchange that tested Sor’s wits as well as his patience, the drow learned that the arachnid (an immense black widow) was named Elon. Displaced by duergar and only capable of speaking in broken Undercommon (for which it claims the dwarves are to blame), they returned to Holoth together. Sor considered returning to the dwarves to exact some level of revenge, but Elon convinced him to do so on another day when they could lay their own traps to ensnare them. Sor knew the sense in this, but marked well the standard of the dwarves’ house. To this day, the young drow has a deep mistrust of members of House Casisto, and concentrates any and all attackers at his disposal against its members. If a dwarf ever ends up facing one of his fighting beasts, Sor always takes great pleasure in their defeat. Having brought back Elon as a living symbol of Naraneus with him, Sor was proclaimed a prophet and a seer. Maelora saw the love being heaped upon her son and was afraid that he might use his newfound respect to cause an upheaval in House Gullion. She couldn’t have that, so organized a family dinner and made it known that Sor would direct all of the praise given to him to the family and Naraneus, but more specifically, to Maelora. Sor simply nodded, not caring in the slightest as he wanted nothing to do with the adoration of his fellow dark elves. Maelora made a speech to her subjects declaring that Naraneus had smiled upon House Gullion and that Elon was an avatar of the Spider Goddess herself, sent to lead the family to even further greatness.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 5818
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

