# Soul-Snatching Aranea

**description**: A soul-snatching aranea is a scourgeborne that has succumbed to its curse. When alive, it was a master of duplicity and lies, a more formidable deceiver than the rest of its kin, navigating the world through a web of manipulation. In a twist of fate, its madness revealed the monstrous personality beneath and gave it a more fitting form. Now truly accursed, this horror continues to use its skills to prey on the living. These massive arachnids find refuge in the abandoned buildings of Luyarnha, turning them into their feeding ground. The aranea weaves illusions aimed at the unsuspecting, luring them in with sounds and visions of their closest loved ones. Rumors claim that it can imitate the sound of any person, past or present, with chilling accuracy. Once it has lured its victim close, it reveals its true form—a giant arachnid monstrosity of legs and fangs, a head dangling upside down, adorned with multiple eyes that gleam with a dark, sinister light—before leaping and devouring its prey's soul, leaving only the shell of a body behind. One of the many reasons why “regular” araneas are despised is because of their soul-snatching cousins. Traits Contorsion. The aranea can move through a space as narrow as 5 inches wide without squeezing. Devour Soul. The aranea can eat the soul of a creature it has killed within the last hour, provided the creature has one. The devouring requires the aranea to be within 5 feet of the corpse for at least 10 minutes, after which it gains a number of Hit Dice (d10s) equal to half the creature's Hit Dice. Roll those dice, and increase the aranea's current hit points and hit point maximum by the total. For every four Hit Dice the aranea gains in this way, its attacks deal an extra 3 (1d6) damage on a hit. The aranea retains these benefits for 7 days. A creature whose soul is devoured by the aranea can be restored to life only by a wish spell. Evasion. If the aranea is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the aranea instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. Innate Spellcasting. The aranea's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation, thaumaturgy 3/day each: blur, major image, silence 1/day each: mislead, phantasmal killer Snatcher's Mimicry. The aranea can perfectly imitate the voices of creatures whose souls it has devoured. The voice doesn't come from the aranea directly, echoing from its general direction instead. To discern the sound as unnatural and coming from the aranea, a creature can use its action to make a DC 17 Investigation check to inspect it, locating the origin of the voice on a success. Spider Climb. The aranea can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Web Walker. The aranea ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the aranea knows the exact location of any other creature in contact with the same web. Actions Multiattack. The aranea makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its legs. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 26 (4d10 + 4) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. In addition, the aranea regains hit points equal to half the damage dealt. Leg. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. Mimic Spell (3/Day). The aranea casts a spell of 5th level or lower with a verbal component and a casting time of 1 action it has heard cast within the last hour, without expending a spell slot or material components. Bonus actions Skitter. The aranea moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Web (Recharge 5-6). Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one creature. Hit: The target is restrained by webbing. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 17 Strength check, bursting the webbing on a success. The webbing can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; 20 hp; vulnerability to fire damage; immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage). Reactions Yelp. After a creature the aranea can see hits it with an attack, the aranea can yelp in pain in the voice of one of the attacker’s loved ones. The attacker must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, it takes 9 (2d8) psychic damage and can’t target the aranea with any attacks or effects until the end of its turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: any evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

