# Soulflayer

**description**: The Abyss is home to many demons and monsters, but few are as feared as Soulflayers. Soulflayers are vaguely humanoid in appearance, with a tall, gaunt body nearly completely absent of color. Their smaller than normal head is adorned with horns and hair-like feathers of blue, red, or green, which provide the only trace of color on their otherwise greyscale body. With their glistening dark skin, unnerving toothy grin, and elongated limbs, they are a vision of nightmares. Their eyes are dark swirls of emptiness, absorbing all light they might come in contact with. If their sight isn’t enough to make even the hardiest soul shiver, the hollow husks following them might be; a simple reminder of what is to come while within their reach. Often left unsatisfied by what the Abyss has to offer, they wander the material plane, seeking their next victim. Stripped Souls. Their signature weapon, the Soulrender Lash, is a long, translucent whip that tears and lashes at a creature’s very soul. Wielding these weapons, a Soulflayer’s strikes gradually reduce their victim to an empty shell, fueled by the powers of the Abyss. These husks serve Soulflayers as minions, protecting them from harm and retaining most of their former abilities. Much like their master, they are devoid of compassion, reason and self-awareness. Survivors of a Soulflayer attack often describe a feeling of being gutted, emptied, and broken for days or even weeks afterward. Hollow Monstrosities. Some say Soulflayers strip the souls of others to feed themselves, but the horrible truth lies in the fact they enjoy the emptiness. They have no motives and no reasons, except perhaps to grow their collection of pets. The most powerful of them can be seen with armies of husks in tow, mindlessly serving and protecting their master. Soulflayers themselves are hollow, a pit of void that is impossible to decipher. Some have tried to no avail, instead being pulled in by the fascinating emptiness and lashed by the creature’s weapon until they are nothing but a husk themselves. Reveling in Despair. While brutish hulks make good servants, a Soulflayer’s true pleasure is to see the light leave the eyes of intelligent creatures, watching them comprehend their loss of self-awareness, moments before it slips from their grasp. As a result, they often stalk highly intelligent individuals, slowly eroding their spirit and will with constant attacks that allow no time for rest. Traits Gaze of the Void. If a creature starts its turn within 60 feet of the soulflayer and the two of them can see each other, the soulflayer can force the creature to make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw if the soulflayer isn’t incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature becomes frightened of the soulflayer for 1 minute. The creature can make a new Charisma save at the end of each of its turns to end this effect. Once a creature has succeeded on a saving throw against this ability, it has advantage on future saving throws made to resist it until it finishes a long rest. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the soulflayer fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When the soulflayer gains an Injury, it can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until it finishes a long rest. Magic Resistance. The soulflayer has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Mindsight. The soulflayer can sense the presence of creatures with an Intelligence score of 6 or higher within 120 feet, and can use this sense to pinpoint their location. It also knows the Intelligence score of those creatures. Puppeteer of the Soulless. Each soulflayed husk within 60 feet of the soulflayer adds a d4 to its roll whenever it makes an Attack roll or saving throw. Actions Multiattack. The soulflayer makes three melee attacks, two of which can be with its Soulrender Lash. It can replace two of these attacks with a use of Soulgaze. Soulrender Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 20 ft., one creature. Hit: 24 (4d8+6) psychic damage, and the target must make a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw or gain a special Injury of Deadly IIII severity, “Soulflayed”. While Injured in this way, the creature has disadvantage on Charisma checks and Charisma saving throws. This Injury can be gained up to 5 times. If the Injury would be gained for a 6th time, or if the creature dies while Injured in this way, the creature’s soul is devoured by the soulflayer, the soulflayer gains 20 temporary hit points, and the creature’s body is drained of color as it becomes a soulflayed husk in service to the soulflayer. A creature whose soul is devoured cannot be resurrected unless the soulflayer is killed within 1 week of its soul being devoured. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10+6) bludgeoning damage. Soulgaze (recharge 4-6). The soulflayer turns its all-consuming gaze on a creature it can see within 120 feet, forcing it to make a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 65 (10d12) psychic damage and is stunned for 1 minute. On a successful save the creature takes half damage and is not stunned. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The soulflayer can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The soulflayer regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Mobile Command. Up to three soulflayed husks within 60 feet of the soulflayer move up to their movement speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Violent Command. Up to three soulflayed husks within 60 feet of the soulflayer make a single melee attack. Inescapable Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 30 feet, one target. Hit: 24 (4d8+6) psychic damage, and the target is pulled 20 feet toward the soulflayer. Soulflayed Husk

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 1/16/1900

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

