# Spartan Godly Champion

**description**: The most brutal warriors the Spartan Army can offer, these warriors are regarded and respected as chosen agents of War by Ares himself. The champion possesses access to powerful divine magic, unrivaled strength and swiftness amongst their fellow Spartans, observant eyes and an incredible durability. It is often said that a champion can count for 20 good soldiers. Spartans would say that such an assessment is an insult to champions themselves. Furthermore, when deployed out to the field of battle they will often be accompanied by the sacred dogs of Ares. Unlike every other soldier, the champion is quite capable of imposing his will on the bloodthirsty celestials, who will readily listen without defiance of any sort. This occurrence further enhances the intensity of the rumors and tales of them being special agents of Ares. Warriors without Equal. As a result of their sheer efficiency, reputation and experience out on the field, Spartan champions rarely get to enjoy battle against equals. Only the eldritch champions of Athens have consistently proved to be worthy challengers over the ages, which has left the Spartan warriors unfulfilled as seekers of battle. Due to this, it is a tradition of their own choice to give the losing side of war a chance, with permission from the King of Sparta. This chance is a duel. A duel between the Spartan champion and the chosen warrior of the enemy side. A fight to the death where no help would be accepted by either side, oftentimes even discarding magical equipment if the champion is zealous enough. If the losing side were to come out victorious, the Spartan army would back off and leave them alone for at least a decade, as they’ve declared. However, there have been no records of a champion ever losing. Spartan Army Sparta is the largest military power in the entirety of the continent, with almost half of their population being dedicated to the army in some capacity, and the rest dedicated to the constant development of their city. With this overwhelming might, neighboring kingdoms and city-states cannot help but look for approval from the Spartans when it comes to commerce, trade and alliances, lest they incur their wrath. Although the presence of arcane expertise is much smaller in comparison to Athens, an incredibly dedicated clergy is present in Sparta. The Faith in Warfare, following the teachings and will of Ares, the God of War, is the dominating religion of the few allowed within the territory of Sparta. As a result, powerful clerics and paladins serving the brutal ideals of combat and conflict fill out the upper echelon of the army’s best. Masters of the Land. Despite having a rather weak naval presence in comparison to Athens, Sparta is unmatched when it comes to direct encounters within solid ground. There have been tales over the years of the Spartan Army sweeping through the land and never stopping. An unstoppable force of the battlefield, as many kingdoms can attest to. Even powerful and ancient beings like dragons avoid antagonizing the Spartans without good reason. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the champion fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the champion hits with it (included in the attack). Champion's Protection. Any of the champion's allies within 30 feet of them add the champion's Wisdom modifier to their saving throws. Godly Protection. The champion is constantly under the effect of the shield of faith spell. Magic Resistance. The champion has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The champion's weapon attacks are magical. Martial Advantage. Once per turn, the champion can deal an extra 14 (4d6) damage to a creature they hits with a weapon attack if that creature is within 5 feet of an ally of the champion that isn't incapacitated. Regeneration. The champion regains 10 hp at the start of their turn if they have no more than half of their total hit points. Shield Wall. Every ally within 5 ft. of the champion gains a +2 bonus to their AC as long as the champion is wielding a shield. Spellcasting. The champion's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). It can cast the following Spells, requiring no material components: At will: compelled duel, divine favor, sacred flame, shield of faith, toll the dead 3/day each: bless, guiding bolt (as a 3rd-level spell) searing smite, thunderous smite 2/day each: blight, blinding smite, branding smite (as a 3rd level spell), command (as a 3rd level spell), dispel magic, wrathful smite (as a 3rd level spell) 1/day each: banishing smite, banishment, find greater steed, geas, spirit shroud (as a 5th level spell), staggering smite Steeled Mind. The champion has advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Actions Multiattack. The champion makes four weapon attacks. They can replace up to two weapon attacks with the casting of a cantrip. War Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. If the target is hit then their attacks against all creatures that are not the champion are made at disadvantage until the end of their next turn. War Spear (Thrown). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 30/90ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) radiant damage. Immediately after the attack, the weapon flies back to the champion's hand. Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is large sized or smaller, it must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone or pushed back 10 ft. (champion's choice) Sacred Flame (Cantrip). Flame-like Radiance descends on a creature that the champion can see within range. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (3d8) radiant damage. The target gains no benefit from cover for this saving throw. Toll the Dead (Cantrip). The champion points at one creature they can see within 60 feet, and the sound of a dolorous bell fills the air around it for a moment. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or take 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. If the target is missing any of its hit points, it instead takes 19 (3d12) necrotic damage. Bonus Actions Aggressive. The champion can move up to their speed toward a hostile creature that they can see. Commander's Strike. The champion orders one of the captains or soldiers under their command within 60 feet to make an attack as a reaction. Second Wind (Recharges after a short or long rest). The champion regains 35 hit points. Legendary Actions The Spartan Godly Champion can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The Spartan Godly Champion regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. The champion can move up to their speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. The champion can make a war spear attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 actions). The champion can cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action or bonus action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

