# Spartan Captain

**description**: The difference between individual Spartans starts showing when you compare the followers to their leaders. Captains are more experienced, better trained, with a powerful presence and possess a sharper mind than the average soldier. All of these are obvious traits one must have to be promoted amongst the ranks, but it’s especially true within this warrior culture. Promotion is not easily handed out, for authority and power over others is a temptation. One must prove themselves worthy of leading their comrades, loyal to a fault. A Spartan that abuses their authority over their subordinates and is found out by their fellow captains or even generals, will meet swift punishment and demotion. If the offense is heinous enough, they might even be executed on the spot. However, those that prove themselves are not only highly regarded by their Spartan brothers and sisters, but by the God of War as well. Although it's not a requirement, a great number of captains and higher rank soldiers within the army possess access to divine magic to some degree. Spartan Army Sparta is the largest military power in the entirety of the continent, with almost half of their population being dedicated to the army in some capacity, and the rest dedicated to the constant development of their city. With this overwhelming might, neighboring kingdoms and city-states cannot help but look for approval from the Spartans when it comes to commerce, trade and alliances, lest they incur their wrath. Although the presence of arcane expertise is much smaller in comparison to Athens, an incredibly dedicated clergy is present in Sparta. The Faith in Warfare, following the teachings and will of Ares, the God of War, is the dominating religion of the few allowed within the territory of Sparta. As a result, powerful clerics and paladins serving the brutal ideals of combat and conflict fill out the upper echelon of the army’s best. Masters of the Land. Despite having a rather weak naval presence in comparison to Athens, Sparta is unmatched when it comes to direct encounters within solid ground. There have been tales over the years of the Spartan Army sweeping through the land and never stopping. An unstoppable force of the battlefield, as many kingdoms can attest to. Even powerful and ancient beings like dragons avoid antagonizing the Spartans without good reason. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the captain hits with it (included in the attack). Martial Advantage. Once per turn, the captain can deal an extra 10 (3d6) damage to a creature it hits with a weapon attack if that creature is within 5 feet of an ally of the captain that isn't incapacitated. Shield Wall. Every ally within 5 ft. of the captain gains a +2 bonus to their AC as long as the captain is wielding a shield. Spellcasting. The captain's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). They can cast the following spells: At Will: sacred flame, toll the dead 3/day each: bless, searing smite, thunderous smite 2/day each: branding smite (as a 3rd level spell), command (as a 2nd level spell), dispel magic, wrathful smite (as a 2nd level spell) 1/day each: banishment, blinding smite, spirit shroud, staggering smite Steeled Mind. The captain has advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Actions Multiattack. The captain makes three weapon attacks. They can replace one weapon attack with a cantrip. War Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage. War Spear (Thrown). Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage. Immediately after the attack, the weapon flies back to the captain's hand. Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. If the target is large sized or smaller, it must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone or pushed back 5 ft. (soldier's choice) Sacred Flame (Cantrip). Flame-like Radiance descends on a creature that the captain can see within range. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 9 (2d8) radiant damage. The target gains no benefit from cover for this saving throw. Toll the Dead (Cantrip). The captain points at one creature they can see within 60 feet, and the sound of a dolorous bell fills the air around it for a moment. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or take 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. If the target is missing any of its hit points, it instead takes 13 (2d12) necrotic damage. Bonus Actions Commander's Strike. The captain orders one of the soldiers under their command within 60 feet to make an attack as a reaction.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

