# Spartan Soldier

**description**: The life of a Spartan is oftentimes quite grim. Discipline, combat, death and duty are the driving forces in their society. This brutal way of life has resulted in a kingdom where even the weakest of soldiers still stands heads and shoulders above your average warrior and bandit. Furthermore, Spartans are at their strongest when they work together. A fact they’re well aware of, which has led to their strong collective approach to combat in groups. Facing a Spartan unit is dangerous at best, foolish at worst. If you do so, you better hope you thoroughly outclass or outnumber them, because anything else would be a recipe for disaster. Spartan Army Sparta is the largest military power in the entirety of the continent, with almost half of their population being dedicated to the army in some capacity, and the rest dedicated to the constant development of their city. With this overwhelming might, neighboring kingdoms and city-states cannot help but look for approval from the Spartans when it comes to commerce, trade and alliances, lest they incur their wrath. Although the presence of arcane expertise is much smaller in comparison to Athens, an incredibly dedicated clergy is present in Sparta. The Faith in Warfare, following the teachings and will of Ares, the God of War, is the dominating religion of the few allowed within the territory of Sparta. As a result, powerful clerics and paladins serving the brutal ideals of combat and conflict fill out the upper echelon of the army’s best. Masters of the Land. Despite having a rather weak naval presence in comparison to Athens, Sparta is unmatched when it comes to direct encounters within solid ground. There have been tales over the years of the Spartan Army sweeping through the land and never stopping. An unstoppable force of the battlefield, as many kingdoms can attest to. Even powerful and ancient beings like dragons avoid antagonizing the Spartans without good reason. Humanoids Humanoids are the most plentiful creatures amongst the creations of the gods. They create vast kingdoms, they make unbelievable technological advances and even achieve breakthroughs in the art of magic. Traits Shield Wall. Every ally within 5 ft. of the soldier gains a +2 bonus to their AC as long as the soldier is wielding a shield. Spellcasting. The soldier's Spellcasting Ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). They can cast the following spells: At Will: toll the dead 3/day each: compelled duel, searing smite, shield of faith 2/day each: bless, divine favor, wrathful smite 1/day each: branding smite, command, healing word Steeled Mind. The soldier has advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Actions Multiattack. The soldier makes two weapon attacks. They can replace one weapon attack with toll the dead. War Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. War Spear (Thrown). Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. If the target is large sized or smaller, it must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone or pushed back 5 ft. (soldier's choice) Toll the Dead (Cantrip). The soldier points at one creature they can see within 60 feet, and the sound of a dolorous bell fills the air around it for a moment. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or take 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. If the target is missing any of its hit points, it instead takes 6 (1d12) necrotic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

