# Spiderstone Golem

**description**: The spiderstone golem, sometimes called the obsidian golem, appears as a giant statue of a beautiful drow male or female with four arms. The golem's body is smooth and glass-like, with shallow cracks and fractures scarring its glossy black surface. Its eyes glow like red embers that seemingly pulse and ebb. On its back are four large one-handed weapons, each perfectly crafted and hewn from obsidian. Guardian and Hunter. When idle, the spiderstone golem stands with its upper pair of arms akimbo and its lower pair folded across its chest. When it enters combat, it will reach behind with all four arms and draw all of its weapons. The spiderstone golem is often encountered guarding entrances and main chambers of temples and shrines of Lolth or in the throne rooms of drow house matrons. On occasion, the spiderstone golem will be instructed to hunt down targets, such as escaping prisoners. Frenzied Construct. The body of a spiderstone golem is first constructed by highly skilled drow artificers and wizards. Once completed, it is sent to a high priestess who prepares it for a ritual that binds a spirit of a demon to the golem. This demon is a servant of Lolth sent from the Demonweb Pits to ensure absolute loyalty to the Queen of Spiders and her followers. However, the spiderstone golem is still unpredictable and dangerous to control. When badly damaged, there is a chance that its demonic spirit will suddenly enter into a demented rage, attacking anything near it until it is destroyed or completely repaired. Spider Warrior. In combat, spiderstone golems fight like seasoned warriors, able to attack and defend against multiple foes. Against mobile and distant targets, the spiderstone golem can breathe a cone of sticky, toxic gossamer threads. This web-like substance poisons whatever is ensnared by it. Traits Berserk. Whenever the golem starts its turn with 70 hit points or fewer, roll a d6. On a 6, the golem goes berserk. On each of its turns while berserk, the golem attacks the nearest creature it can see. If no creature is near enough to move to and attack, the golem attacks an object, with preference for an object smaller than itself. Once the golem goes berserk, it continues to do so until it is destroyed or regains all its hit points. Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Spider Climb. The golem can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the golem knows the exact location of any creature in contact with the same web. Web Walker. The golem ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. Unusual Nature. The golem doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The golem makes four Scimitar attacks. Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. Web Breath (Recharge 5-6). The golem exhales poisonous webbing in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 31 (7d8) poison damage and be restrained by webbing. A creature that starts its turn restrained takes 9 (2d8) poison damage. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 17 Strength check, escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 10, 10 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

