# Squirebug

**description**: “The little guy at the entrance? Yeah, he’s being genuine. No, there’s no trick. He really just wants to go and help you on an adventure for free. Look, I’ll throw in a few gold pieces if you just take him on a trip for a while. I can’t listen to another ten-minute declaration of undying loyalty…” — Heliana, Overwhelmed by Helpfulness Type: Fey Creature Component: Any scarab Bonus Tamer Improvement: Pack Mule and +2 Hit Dice Squirebugs come into being when benevolent fey spirits take residence in the discarded shells of scarab knights. The resulting creature quickly develops an infatuation with the idea of knighthood and seeks out adventurers and warriors to aid, hoping to learn from them to one day become a valiant knight itself. Squirebugs are undyingly loyal to those they bond with, and will gladly put themselves in harm’s way to protect them. If any of the squirebug’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the squirebug’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the squirebug’s Strength modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the squirebug the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Pack Mule Prerequisite: Become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion), Active (action) The squirebug gains proficiency in the Athletics skill, and it counts as one size larger when determining its carrying capacity and the weight it can push, drag, or lift. In addition, as an action, the squirebug can touch an object that isn’t being worn or carried and is no more than one size category larger than itself, transporting it to an extradimensional space that only it can access. This extradimensional space can hold only one object at a time. As an action, the squirebug can retrieve the object, causing it to appear in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of it. The object also returns if the squirebug is reduced to 0 hit points or recalled back to its vessel. Loyal I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (reaction) While the squirebug is within 5 feet of its tamer and the tamer is hit by an attack made by a creature that the squirebug can see, the squirebug can use its reaction to make itself the target of the attack instead. Charge Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) Once on each of its turns, if the squirebug moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with an attack, the target takes an extra 3 ( 1d6 ) damage. If the target is a creature within 5 feet of the squirebug’s tamer that is no more than two sizes larger than the squirebug, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away from the tamer. Growth Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The squirebug’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its Horns attack increases to a d6 . Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the squirebug can make two attacks. Squire’s Duty I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (tamer) The squirebug can help its tamer with their armour, reducing the time it takes them to don or doff an armour by half. In addition, over the course of a short or long rest, the squirebug can tend to one of its tamer’s belongings, honing and oiling a weapon or polishing a suit of armour. A weapon gains a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls and a suit of armour gains a +1 bonus to the AC it provides. Only the squirebug’s tamer can benefit from these bonuses, which can be in addition to any that the weapon or armour already has, as long as their sum doesn’t exceed +3. The bonuses last until the tamer finishes a short or long rest, or until the squirebug is recalled into its vessel. Loyal II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Loyal I Type: Passive (companion) If the squirebug is within 30 feet of its tamer and can see it, the squirebug has immunity to the charmed condition and advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Knight in Training I Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The squirebug gains proficiency with longswords and shields. It can replace any number of attacks it makes with attacks using a longsword. Squire’s Duty II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Squire’s Duty I Type: Active (10 minutes) The squirebug can cast the find steed spell. The steed serves the squirebug’s tamer as if the tamer had cast the spell. Once the squirebug casts the spell in this way, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Knight in Training II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Knight in Training I Type: Passive (companion), Active (action) The squirebug gains proficiency with heavy armour. In addition, the squirebug can use an action to summon a magical force in the shape of a scarab underneath it, resembling a mount. The squirebug gains a flying speed equal to its walking speed for 1 hour or until the squirebug dismisses the scarab. Once the squirebug has used this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. Loyal III Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Loyal II Type: Active (reaction) When the squirebug’s tamer drops to 0 hit points while the squirebug is within 60 feet of them and can see them, the squirebug can use its reaction to shout words of encouragement, professing its belief and trust in its tamer. The tamer drops to 1 hit point instead and gains 21 ( 6d6 ) temporary hit points. Once the squirebug has used this reaction, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: fey
- Alignment: neutral good
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

