# Squire

**description**: Squires possess a modicum of martial training and are stalwart companions. Creating a Survivor When you plan a session using survivors, determine how you’ll use the Apprentice, Disciple, Sneak, and Squire stat blocks that appear in the following section. Once you’ve determined what survivors to use, take a few moments to individualize them. If the survivors have particular roles in your adventure, provide that information to players along with their survivors’ statistics; otherwise, let them come up with their own details. Players can give their survivors names, personalities, and lineages, but these details don’t affect the survivors’ stat blocks. Levels Survivors don’t possess classes as detailed in the Player’s Handbook . Despite this, you can make a survivor marginally more powerful by increasing its level. The stat blocks present the survivors as they are at 1st level. Rather than gaining experience points, a survivor increases in level whenever it makes sense for your adventure. When a survivor gains a level, it gains the benefits on the Survivor Progression table. A survivor that advances from 1st to 2nd level and from 2nd to 3rd level gains access to the player’s choice of Survivor Talents (see the section below). Survivor Progression Table Level Feature 1st See the appropriate stat block 2nd Survivor Talent 3rd Survivor Talent Hit Points Whenever a survivor gains a level, it gains one Hit Die and its hit point maximum increases. To determine the amount of the increase, roll the Hit Die (the type that appears in the survivor’s stat block), and add the survivor’s Constitution modifier. It gains a minimum of 1 hit point per level. If a survivor drops to 0 hit points, it falls unconscious and subsequently makes death saving throws just like a normal player character. Survivor Talents At 2nd level and again at 3rd level, a survivor gains their choice of one of the following talents. A survivor can’t gain the same talent more than once, unless a talent’s description says otherwise. If a talent has a prerequisite, the character must meet it to gain the talent. Adrenaline Surge At the start of your turn, you can choose one creature you can see within 30 feet of you. Until the start of your next turn, you are frightened of that creature and your walking speed is doubled. Desperate Scream Whenever you make a saving throw, you can summon your desire to live into a desperate scream. You gain advantage on the saving throw, and the scream is audible up to 100 feet away. You can scream in this way twice, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Resilience Choose one ability score. You gain proficiency in saving throws using the chosen ability. Sacrificing Shield Prerequisite: Squire survivor When a creature you can see makes an attack against a target you can see within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to become the target of the attack instead. If you are wielding a shield, you can reduce the damage by 1d10. Once you use this talent, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest. Skillful You gain proficiency in two skills of your choice.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid
- Expansion: 10535

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Van Richten's Guide To Ravenloft

