# Star Spawn Hulk

**description**: The hulk is one of the largest of the known star spawn, with glistening, translucent skin. Pale and seemingly lidless eyes glare balefully from a face distorted by too many teeth and too little nose. Hulks are seldom encountered without a commanding star spawn seer (also in this book) nearby. A hulk appears to have little will of its own and is driven to protect its master. Stars don’t spawn these creatures. Such beautiful lights shouldn’t be blamed for such balefulness. —Mordenkainen Star Spawn The Material Plane represents only one small part of the multiverse. Beyond the best-known planes of existence lie realms alien to mortal life. Some are so hostile that even a moment’s contact is enough to break a mortal’s mind. Yet beings do exist that are native to these realms: entities that are ever hungering, searching, warring, and sometimes dreaming. These Elder Evils are far older than most of the mortal peoples and always inimical to such creatures’ minds. However much they might desire to enter and dominate the Material Plane, the Elder Evils are unable or unwilling to leave their realms. Some are imprisoned in their dimensions by external forces, some are inextricably bound to their home realities, and others simply can’t find any way out. The creatures known as star spawn are the heralds, servants, and soldiers of the Elder Evils, capable of taking on forms that can journey to the Material Plane. They arrive most often in the wake of a comet—or perhaps this phenomenon merely signals that star spawn are in the vicinity and available for communication. When the signs are right, cultists gather together, read aloud their blasphemous texts, and conduct the mind-searing rituals that guide star spawn into the world. Elder Evil Blessings Disciples of certain Elder Evils can bestow supernatural gifts on those who serve that cult, including star spawn. The following powers are unique to specific cults; typically a creature has only one. Cult of Atropus, the World Born Dead Gaze of Corruption (Recharge 6). The cultist targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 16 (3d10) necrotic damage and be poisoned for 1 minute. The poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Cult of Borem of the Lake of Boiling Mud Borem’s Embrace (1/Day). The cultist touches one creature within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be coated in sticky, steaming mud. While it is coated in this way, the target’s speed is halved, it can’t use reactions, and it takes 10 (3d6) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. The effect lasts for 1 minute, until the cultist is incapacitated or dies, or until the target is immersed in water. Cult of Haask, the Voice of Hargut Haask’s Presence (1/Day). The cultist transforms into a Tiny, slug-like being and teleports onto the shoulder of a Humanoid that it can see within 30 feet of it. The targeted Humanoid must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be charmed by the cultist. While the target is charmed, the cultist has control of it on the target’s next turn. At the end of that turn, the cultist teleports to an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet of it and returns to its normal form. The cultist can’t be targeted directly by any attack or other effect while it’s in the slug-like form, but it is subject to areas of effect as normal. Cult of Tharizdun, the Chained God Tharizdun’s Spark (Recharge 6). As a bonus action, the cultist touches a simple or martial weapon or a natural weapon, if it has one. The next creature hit by the touched weapon must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on all ability checks. The affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each minute, ending the effect on itself on a success. Cult of Tyranthraxus, the Flamed One Radiant Flames (1/Day). Multihued flame surrounds the cultist for 1 minute, until the cultist is incapacitated or dies, or until the cultist extinguishes the flame (no action required). While inflamed, the cultist has telepathy with a range of 30 feet, and it can teleport as a bonus action up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. In addition, every creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the cultist must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The cultists who blaspheme reality by calling out to Elder Evils often speak of a Far Realm from which these entities hail. In truth, there is no one place or space from which they come. There is the multiverse of things that are, and there is the multiverse of things that shouldn’t be. —Mordenkainen Traits Psychic Mirror. If the hulk takes psychic damage, each creature within 10 feet of the hulk takes that damage instead; the hulk takes none of the damage. In addition, the hulk’s thoughts and location can’t be discerned by magic. Actions Multiattack. The hulk makes two Slam attacks. If both attacks hit the same target, the target also takes 9 (2d8) psychic damage and must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the target’s next turn. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Reaping Arms (Recharge 5–6). The hulk makes a separate Slam attack against each creature within 10 feet of it. Each creature that is hit must also succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large 
- Type: Aberration,
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

