# Star Greybert

**description**: “Rest, a well-balanced diet, or good friends - none of them drive me. It’s the shit tons of inequalities in this city that add fuel to my fire.” Star, a middle-aged woman who stands at 6 feet tall, has short blonde hair and big blue eyes, and she often carries big bags full of all sorts of papers, files, newspapers, notebooks, and a huge flask of coffee. She is a well-known journalist, whose articles are appreciated by the citizens even if some of the elite abhor every word out of her mouth. This bears no importance for Star, who only cares about her articles reaching the masses and being useful. Her style is simple yet elegant; she generally wears loose shirts and pants, which make it easier to keep up with her job that may require her to chase people, carry big and heavy bags, or do interviews at any time of the day. Star’s Story Even though her parents are from somewhere outside of Tolia, Star was born in Kanrath and she grew up in the dark and dystopian city. As a kid, she was always a successful student who could easily learn and adapt to new things. Even at an early age, she always loved asking questions and revealing the truth. So when she revealed that she wanted to be a journalist, her parents supported her and she immediately started working in a newspaper, The Loyalist. She was just a reporter at first, but she got more and more responsibilities and earned a reputation over time. Star met a professor, Korkmaz, a very intelligent elderly vampire who shared her ideals and hopes, while she was working. Korkmaz encouraged her to study at the university as he believed journalism to be one of the few things that could change Tolia. She agreed and became one of his assistants. They studied hard, researched, documented, and wrote tons of papers and articles. Beside her academic works, Star has always loved to challenge authority, which has never stopped getting her in trouble. She has been threatened or reprimanded one too many times for choosing the wrong words or topics for her articles. Therefore, it’s no surprise that she often finds it hard to keep up with both the cities’ and the newspapers’ rules and policies. In spite of this, her prowess as a journalist has allowed her to survive for 25 years in the chaos of the city, as it has allowed her access to the lives and the secrets of the rulers. They generally leave her alone for fear of what she may uncover if they rub her the wrong way. Star’s Goals Star wishes nothing but to be a journalist who is well-liked and admired by the people. In her heart of hearts, she would love to run her own newspaper and hire young and passionate journalists to help her rebuild the world as they know it. Roleplaying Star Star is fun, adventurous, and talkative. She loves telling stories and asking questions, perhaps a bit too much, and she chalks it up to professional deformation. She also likes to take notes about pretty much anything. Star in Combat Despite her naive look, she is pretty strong and adept at using pistols and knives. Also, thanks to her connections with the Kanrath mob and beggars, she usually has people protecting her, whom you can use the Kanrath thug Thug, Kanrath stat block to represent.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

