# Star Spawn Seer

**description**: A star spawn seer is most often encountered as the leader of a cult dedicated to one or more Elder Evils. Usually, the seer is the only cult member that grasps the full extent of the horror the cult is venerating. The seer’s goal is to tap into vast energy sources and perform the dire rites that will extend a bridge between the Material Plane and the squirming chaos of an Elder Evil’s realm. An entity that appears as a star spawn seer in the Material Plane usually arrives disembodied. When a warlock or other spellcaster establishes communication with it, the seer-entity takes control of the mortal, transforming it into a star spawn seer. Whoever the mortal once was largely vanishes beneath the mass of tumorous skin than builds up in strange whorls all over the seer’s body. The mortal’s hands become bulky, flipper-like appendages able to grasp the seer’s strange staff formed of a blend of flesh, bone, and star stuff. A star spawn seer is almost always accompanied by one or more star spawn hulks (also in this book). Not only is a hulk a powerful combatant, but when a seer deals psychic damage to a hulk, the hulk isn’t hurt, and the effect ricochets off and expands to assault other creatures. Stars don’t spawn these creatures. Such beautiful lights shouldn’t be blamed for such balefulness. —Mordenkainen Star Spawn The Material Plane represents only one small part of the multiverse. Beyond the best-known planes of existence lie realms alien to mortal life. Some are so hostile that even a moment’s contact is enough to break a mortal’s mind. Yet beings do exist that are native to these realms: entities that are ever hungering, searching, warring, and sometimes dreaming. These Elder Evils are far older than most of the mortal peoples and always inimical to such creatures’ minds. However much they might desire to enter and dominate the Material Plane, the Elder Evils are unable or unwilling to leave their realms. Some are imprisoned in their dimensions by external forces, some are inextricably bound to their home realities, and others simply can’t find any way out. The creatures known as star spawn are the heralds, servants, and soldiers of the Elder Evils, capable of taking on forms that can journey to the Material Plane. They arrive most often in the wake of a comet—or perhaps this phenomenon merely signals that star spawn are in the vicinity and available for communication. When the signs are right, cultists gather together, read aloud their blasphemous texts, and conduct the mind-searing rituals that guide star spawn into the world. Elder Evil Blessings Disciples of certain Elder Evils can bestow supernatural gifts on those who serve that cult, including star spawn. The following powers are unique to specific cults; typically a creature has only one. Cult of Atropus, the World Born Dead Gaze of Corruption (Recharge 6). The cultist targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 16 (3d10) necrotic damage and be poisoned for 1 minute. The poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Cult of Borem of the Lake of Boiling Mud Borem’s Embrace (1/Day). The cultist touches one creature within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be coated in sticky, steaming mud. While it is coated in this way, the target’s speed is halved, it can’t use reactions, and it takes 10 (3d6) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. The effect lasts for 1 minute, until the cultist is incapacitated or dies, or until the target is immersed in water. Cult of Haask, the Voice of Hargut Haask’s Presence (1/Day). The cultist transforms into a Tiny, slug-like being and teleports onto the shoulder of a Humanoid that it can see within 30 feet of it. The targeted Humanoid must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be charmed by the cultist. While the target is charmed, the cultist has control of it on the target’s next turn. At the end of that turn, the cultist teleports to an unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet of it and returns to its normal form. The cultist can’t be targeted directly by any attack or other effect while it’s in the slug-like form, but it is subject to areas of effect as normal. Cult of Tharizdun, the Chained God Tharizdun’s Spark (Recharge 6). As a bonus action, the cultist touches a simple or martial weapon or a natural weapon, if it has one. The next creature hit by the touched weapon must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on all ability checks. The affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each minute, ending the effect on itself on a success. Cult of Tyranthraxus, the Flamed One Radiant Flames (1/Day). Multihued flame surrounds the cultist for 1 minute, until the cultist is incapacitated or dies, or until the cultist extinguishes the flame (no action required). While inflamed, the cultist has telepathy with a range of 30 feet, and it can teleport as a bonus action up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. In addition, every creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the cultist must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The cultists who blaspheme reality by calling out to Elder Evils often speak of a Far Realm from which these entities hail. In truth, there is no one place or space from which they come. There is the multiverse of things that are, and there is the multiverse of things that shouldn’t be. —Mordenkainen Traits Out-of-Phase Movement. The seer can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain, and its movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. Each creature it moves through takes 5 (1d10) psychic damage; no creature can take this damage more than once per turn. The seer takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Actions Multiattack. The seer makes two Comet Staff or Psychic Orb attacks. Comet Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8) psychic damage, and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated until the end of its next turn. Psychic Orb. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 feet, one creature. Hit: 27 (5d10) psychic damage. Collapse Distance (Recharge 6). The seer warps space around one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. That creature must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, is teleported up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space the seer can see, and then each creature within 10 feet of the target’s original space takes 39 (6d12) psychic damage. On a successful save, the target takes 19 (3d12) psychic damage and isn’t teleported. Reactions Bend Space. When the seer would be hit by an attack roll, it teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, exchanging positions with another star spawn it can see within 60 feet of it. The other star spawn is hit by the attack instead.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

