# Starved Dreamholder

**description**: Dreamholders Natives of the Anomalies, dreamholders often find routes through to the Astral Plane and, from this staging post, parasitise creatures who astrally project, hitching a ride on their psyches back into the home plane. There, they flit between the minds of sleeping creatures, distorting each dreamer’s narrative and feasting on their fear, joy, and distress. An incorporeal version of the floating eye tyrant, the dreamholder can unleash a devastating array of eye beams at lucid dreamers who threaten to expel them from their mind. Fear of Ejection. Rarely does a dreamholder take physical form on the Material Plane. Instead, a dreamholder traverses the world through a dreamscape, an ephemeral plane created by the psyches of sleeping creatures. If this dreamscape ever disappears, such as if all creatures within range of the dreamholder’s influence awaken, the dreamholder is ejected back to the Astral Plane, a place it loathes due to the absence of its favourite snack: sleeping beings. For this reason, dreamholders are commonly found in densely populated areas, places with a mix of diurnal and nocturnal beings, or wherever sleeping creatures can be reliably preyed upon. The dreamholder is a clever and resourceful aberration. Should its continued existence in the dreams of creatures on the Material Plane be threatened, it chooses one of two tactics. If it believes itself more powerful than its foe, it will immediately attempt to annihilate the threatening creature’s psyche and render their body a comatose shell. Alternatively, a dreamholder might bargain with its assailant, delivering secrets to them nightly until such a time as it can destroy this erstwhile ally. Balanced Diet. Dreamholders feed on the gamut of emotions that a creature can experience. For a properly balanced diet, a dreamholder needs to consume anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness, and surprise. A dreamholder that can keep a group of humanoids experiencing all these emotions simultaneously is a contented dreamholder indeed. Inconsistent Incorporeality. The dreamholder maintains its incorporeal form through psionics. Its mastery of this technique is absolute; even the most well-placed blow with a magical weapon passes through thin air, the dreamholder dissolving the instant before contact is made. The dreamholder abhors loud noises and psychic attacks, all of which interfere with its focus, causing it to become momentarily corporeal and susceptible to physical blows. Dream Stasis & Bridging. Dreamholders possess the unique ability to bridge the dreams of sleeping creatures, a feature they use to slip from a soon-to-wake mind into that of one that has recently drifted off. Indeed, one of the symptoms of dreamholder parasitisation is the increased frequency of shared dreams between individuals in a community (and the social awkwardness that soon follows). Powerful dreamholders can exert such influence over a sleeping creature that the dreamer enters a ‘dream stasis’, a paralytic state from which it can’t wake of its own volition. A clever dreamholder learns to release these captured sleepers just before they waste away entirely, knowing full well that they must return to sleep eventually. Dream Lair. Combining these two abilities of stasis and bridging, a dreamholder can create a tangled web of interconnecting landscapes, scenarios, and protagonists, a veritable feast of corrupted dreams. Time dilates and constricts at the dreamholder’s whim, and respite is rarely attainable. In this varied, restless landscape, physical prowess means little; the dreamholder is the ruler, and those that are weak of mind seldom emerge. Regional Effects The dreamholder’s lair has the following unique properties: Detect Thoughts. The dreamholder can detect the surface thoughts of all creatures within its lair. This gives it advantage on any Wisdom (Insight) checks against creatures in its lair. Immutable Form. The environment of the Dreamscape can be permanently changed only by a dream or wish spell. All objects are otherwise unbreakable. Speed of Thought. Each creature gains a modifier to its speed equal to its Intelligence score minus 10 (rounded down to the nearest 5-foot increment). Strength of Mind. Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws are all replaced with Intelligence saving throws. Quiet. The Dreamscape is magically quietened; the dreamholder doesn’t like loud noises (or thunder damage). All creatures have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that involve hearing. Where Are We? No one can quite remember how they arrived where they are. Lair Actions While the dreamholder lives, it can invoke the ambient magic of its dreamscape to take lair actions. The saving throw DCs, damage, and temporary hit points of the lair actions depend on the level at which you run the hunt. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam Temporary Hit Points 5th 13 5 (2d4) 3 (1d6) 12th 16 14 (4d6) 7 (2d6) 19th 18 28 (8d6) 14 (4d6) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dreamholder takes one of the following lair actions; the dreamholder can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row. See the table above for the damage and save DC. Forgetful Friend. Each creature of the dreamholder’s choice within the lair must make a VDC Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target loses the ability to distinguish friend from foe. It regards all creatures it can see as enemies until initiative count 20 of the next round. Whenever the affected creature chooses another creature as a target, it must choose the target at random from among the creatures it can see within range of the attack, spell, or other ability it’s using. If an enemy provokes an opportunity attack from the affected creature, the creature must make that attack if it is able to.Valiance. The dreamholder inspires creatures of its choice within its lair, giving them visions of triumph and hope. Each affected creature gains temporary hit points and is affected by the bless spell until initiative count 20 of the next round. Despair. The dreamholder gives creatures of its choice within its lair visions of failure and despair. Each creature of the dreamholder choice that is in its lair must make a VDC Charisma saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes psychic damage and is affected by the bane spell until initiative count 20 of the next round. On a success, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t affected by the spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Abberation
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

