# Storm Hag

**description**: Known for their cruelty and isolationism, hags are both feared and sought by travelers in the wilderness—depending on whether they’re desperate enough to seek out a hag’s help. Hags are also treated with fear and respect by other “monstrous” creatures for their strong magic, esoteric knowledge, and shrewd minds. GMs can incorporate hags as they exist in the core rules into games set in the Shadowfell. Even hags who can’t cast plane shift might know how to find their way to the Shadowfell from the Feywild or the Material Plane to consort with other monsters. The hag’s method for moving from one dimension to the next could be a powerful plot device for a GM—perhaps the hag obtained a unique magic item or discovered a portal between realms. Whatever magic a hag employs, the heroes can use themselves, but likely at a price. Hag Mythology Hags are found in myths across Eurasia. From the famous Baba Yaga of Slavic folklore, to Jenny Greenteeth in the tales of the Britons, to Frau Holle in the stories of the Germanic people, to the housoubaba of Japan, hideous women in the wilderness with magical powers are a common trope. GMs should be aware of the sexism inherent in these stories, but savvy GMs can turn the bigotry on its ear. Hags can be empowered feminists, experts in their fields of interest, and nonconformists who unapologetically reject societal norms in favor of their own interests and advancement. Strive for the players to ask who the real monsters are: the hags or those who shun them. While hags are often portrayed as monsters, they’re still intelligent beings with their own motivations and abilities that could be useful to adventurers—if the characters can convince a hag that an alliance would be mutually beneficial. A hag is no doubt cruel and terrible at times, but they can also be relatable and even admirable at others. To help turn hags into story “movers” rather than story obstacles, consider the following questions: What is the hag’s name? What was their life like prior to hagdom? Did they choose to become a hag, or was it forced upon them, and what impact might that have upon their psyche? What are their motivations? Are some of the hag’s goals congruent with those of the characters? What might the hag demand in trade for their assistance What abilities does the hag have that are helpful outside of combat? For example, a red hag has extensive knowledge of history, health, and magic items. A storm hag could hold off an entire fleet of enemy ships if the characters can convince them to do so. All hags have their roots in humanity. Keep that origin close to the surface when portraying them. Perhaps the hag has a soft spot for dogs or cats. Perhaps they keep art pieces of their loved ones from long ago, or maybe they still look after their family’s welfare from afar. Remember that a dark truth or a hidden truth is still a truth. An encounter with a hag could reveal issues a hero is repressing or ignoring, giving that character a profound opportunity for growth. Discuss such opportunities with your players and if they are willing, roll with it! Create a safe space with players before using hags in this manner, but, if done in collaboration with the player, hags can provide an impetus for character development that heightens the story. Storm Hag A storm hag is a powerful fey who embodies the raw destructive power of a monumental storm. In her natural form, the hag is the heart of a massive tempest that stretches for miles. She delights in haunting remote lakes and wetlands, lulling victims into complacency with a beautiful song before unleashing deadly weather that sinks ships and drags sailors into the frigid depths. When interacting with mortals, a storm hag often takes the form of a hideous woman with pale green skin and teeth, jaundiced eyes, and sharp facial features. Her disturbingly long arms can extend even farther to slash foes with wicked claws. Tactics . The storm hag is as much a force of nature as a creature, and her behavior in combat reflects this quality. She begins her approach by using her Beautiful Song ability and then dramatically turns violent when she casts storm of vengeance . With her exceptional reach, the hag targets her foes from above with her Ice Claws attack. If attacking a vessel, the hag targets the ship exclusively unless its crew puts up a defense, at which time the storm hag pummels defenders and siege engines (such as catapults, trebuchets, and cannons) with Ice Claws and Pummeling Wave instead. If defeated outside her lair, a storm hag returns to her Shadowfell cave to slumber for seven years. Heroes can undertake a quest to the Shadowfell to destroy the storm hag once and for all. Storm Hag Mythology . In American mythology, the storm hag was a monstrous woman who lived in Lake Erie, thought to be responsible for the many shipwrecks in that area. Maritime losses along the Pennsylvania coast have been attributed to the storm hag as recently as 1942. Air Form . The hag can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop there. She can move through a space as narrow as 5 feet wide without squeezing. Humanoid Form . The hag can take the form of a Medium human. While in this form, she loses her damage immunities and resistances, condition immunities, Air Form trait, and flying speed. She gains a walking speed of 30 feet and can walk across any liquid surface—such as water, acid, mud, snow, quicksand, or lava—as if it were harmless solid ground. Immortality . The hag cannot be killed on the Material Plane. If reduced to 0 hit points, the hag is magically transported to her lair on the Shadowfell where she slumbers for 7 years before reawakening. She is immune to any effect that would age her, and she can’t die from old age. Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If the hag fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The hag has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons . The hag’s weapon attacks are magical. Actions Beautiful Song . Creatures within 1 mile of the hag that can hear her must succeed on a DC 18 Charisma saving throw or be magically charmed by the hag for 1 hour. If the hag makes an attack or casts a spell that damages another creature, a charmed creature becomes frightened and the charmed effect ends for it. A creature charmed or frightened by the hag’s Beautiful Song can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success. If a creature successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the creature is immune to the hag’s Beautiful Song for the next 7 years and 1 day. Ice Claws (Air Form Only) . Melee Weapon Attack : +17 to hit, reach 120 ft., one target. Hit : 31 (6d6 + 10) slashing damage plus 21 (6d6) cold damage. The speed of a creature hit by this attack is reduced to 0. Paralyzing Claws (Humanoid Form Only) . Melee Weapon Attack : +17 to hit, reach 15 ft, one target. Hit : 17 (2d6 + 10) slashing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. A paralyzed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the condition on itself on a success. Spellcasting . The hag’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). She can cast the following spells, requiring no components: At will: call lightning , dispel magic 3/day each: ice storm , wind wall 1/day each: plane shift , storm of vengeance Pummeling Wave . The hag summons a crushing wave of water that is 120 feet long and 30 feet wide. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A nonmagical object in the spell’s area that isn’t being worn or carried also takes the damage. Unsecured objects and Medium or smaller creatures that fail the saving throw are pushed 60 feet away from the hag. Reactions Disrupt Magic . When a creature within 60 feet of the hag that she can see casts a spell of 3rd level or lower, the hag disrupts the spell’s magic and it has no effect. Legendary Actions The hag can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The hag regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Claws . The hag makes an Ice Claws or Paralyzing Claws attack. Sink Ships . The hag makes an Ice Claws attack against a sea-faring vessel. If the attack hits, it is a critical hit and ignores any damage threshold the vessel has. Spellcasting (Costs 2 Actions) . The hag casts a spell with a casting time of 1 action. A Storm Hag’s Lair Storm hags make their homes deep within the earth of the Shadowfell, in caves that look out on ancient lakes long since dried up on the Material Plane. A storm hag’s presence causes the barrier between the Material Plane and the Shadowfell to weaken, allowing travelers to unintentionally step between them. Many mortals who make this mistake are never seen again, falling victim to the hag or other denizens of the tenebrous plane. Within her deep lair, the storm hag crafts the most amazing glass baubles and sculptures, using lightning to twist sand into elaborate shapes. Many of these art pieces have oracular abilities and can be used as arcane foci or scrying devices. She rests upon a bed of kelp and moss, content in her isolation. The hag sleeps here for seven years if she is ever killed on the Material Plane, and when the hag awakens from this slumber, she seeks revenge. Lair Actions . On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the storm hag takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the hag can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The hag fills her lair with fog that lasts until the start of initiative count 20 on the next round. While the fog remains, all areas of the lair are heavily obscured for all creatures except the storm hag. The hag chooses up to three creatures she can see within 120 feet of her and attempts to disorient them with crystalline patterns in the walls of her lair and refracted light in glass baubles. Each target must succeed on a DC 20 saving throw or be affected as if by the confusion spell until initiative count 20 on the next round. Spatial perception warps, disorienting creatures and scattering them in different directions. Each creature the storm hag chooses within 60 feet of her must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or use its reaction (if available) to move its speed in a random direction, stopping only if it encounters an impassable obstacle such as a wall. Use the Warped Perception table below to determine the direction a creature moves, rolling separately for each creature. Regional Effects . The region containing a storm hag’s lair is warped by the creature’s chaotic and destructive presence: The area within 6 miles of the lair is beset by storms with strong winds or heavy precipitation, which can come without warning and last for days, causing extreme damage and flooding. There are signs of impending weather phenomena within 1 mile of the hag’s lair at all times, including sudden wind or temperature shifts. Domesticated beasts within 1 mile of the lair are easily frightened and often flee instead of following commands. If the hag dies, these effects end immediately. Warped Perception d8 Direction 1 North 2 Northeast 3 East 4 Southeast 5 South 6 Southwest 7 West 8 Northwest

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 22851
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 12

