# Storm Giant Kraken Exarch

**description**: Misguided worshippers of a kraken are sometimes gifted with power. The most devout of them become priests that slowly undergo horrific physical mutations, turning their appearances into the likeness of their very deity. Yet almost all of these priests end up becoming pawns and fodder for the kraken's schemes. In very rare instances, however, a kraken will answer the call of a fallen mighty creature, such as a storm giant who was either left for dead at the bottom of the ocean or simply seeking a patron to help it achieve its goals. Recognizing the benefits of having a powerful creature as its champion, the kraken grants it its wishes, bestowing some of its divine power, and making it its exarch. Traits Amphibious. The giant can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two melee attacks or two ranged attacks. Trident. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft. or range 60/240 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d6 + 8) piercing damage, or 21 (3d8 + 8) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 11 (2d10) thunder damage, and the target can’t take reactions until the end of the giant’s next turn. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The giant has eight tentacles, each of which can grapple one target. Thunderbolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) lightning damage plus 11 (2d10) thunder damage, and the target is knocked prone. Lightning Strike (Recharge 5–6). The giant hurls a magical lightning bolt at a point it can see within 500 feet of it. Each creature within 10 feet of that point must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 63 (14d8) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: command, create or destroy water 3/day each: control water, control weather, darkness, water breathing, water walk 1/day each: Evard’s black tentacles, maelstrom, tidal wave Voice of the Kraken (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). A kraken speaks through the giant with a thunderous voice audible within 300 feet. Creatures of the giant’s choice that can hear the kraken’s words (which are spoken in Abyssal, Infernal, or Primordial) must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the giant for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The giant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tentacle. The giant makes a Tentacle attack. Thunder Strike (Costs 2 Actions). The giant makes a Trident or Thunderbolt attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The giant uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

