# Strahd, Master of Death House

**description**: Strahd von Zarovich is the Darklord of Barovia, a Domain of Dread. Little happens there without the Darklord’s knowledge, although Strahd rarely pays attention to what he considers the uninteresting dealings of lesser beings. However, once the characters arrive in Barovia, explore a place called Death House, and find a piece of the Rod of Seven Parts there, Strahd’s interest becomes piqued, and he makes an appearance. The characters encounter Strahd in his Master of Death House iteration in chapter 5. History In life, Strahd von Zarovich was a prince, a soldier, and a conqueror. His thirst for power never sated, Strahd made a pact with the Dark Powers to become immortal. Meanwhile, Strahd’s evil deepened, until in a jealous rage he murdered his brother, Sergei. Sergei’s betrothed, Tatyana, leapt from a tower to escape Strahd and vanished into the Mists rising around Barovia as Strahd slew everyone else in the castle. He had become a vampire, and Barovia became a Domain of Dread. Now the Dark Powers keep Strahd trapped in his realm, tormenting him with his inability to escape for all eternity. He spends his days amusing himself as best he can, terrorizing Barovia’s people and savoring the fear and worship he commands. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Strahd fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Master of the House. When Strahd is reduced to 0 hit points, he dissolves into mist and immediately teleports to his lair in Castle Ravenloft. After 1d4 hours, Strahd re-forms in a random unoccupied space within his lair, regaining all his hit points. Regeneration. Strahd regains 20 hit points at the start of his turn if he has at least 1 hit point. If he takes radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of his next turn. Spider Climb. Strahd can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Vampire Weaknesses. Strahd has the following flaws: Harmed by Running Water. While in running water, Strahd takes 20 acid damage if he ends his turn there, and he can’t use Change Shape. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. While in sunlight, Strahd takes 20 radiant damage at the start of his turn, has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and can’t use Change Shape. Actions Multiattack. Strahd makes two Death Strike attacks. He can replace one of these attacks with Blighted Fire if available. Death Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, Strahd can forgo dealing slashing damage; the target then has the grappled condition (escape DC 18) instead. Strahd can grapple only one creature at a time. Blighted Fire (Recharge 5–6). Strahd summons shadowy, necrotic fire that fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point he can see within 90 feet of himself. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Charm. Strahd targets one Humanoid he can see within 30 feet of himself. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or have the charmed condition. The charmed target regards Strahd as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. The target isn’t under Strahd’s control, but it takes Strahd’s requests and actions in the most favorable way. Each time Strahd or his companions deal damage to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or until Strahd is reduced to 0 hit points, is on a different plane of existence than the target, or uses a bonus action to end the effect. Spellcasting. Strahd casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: Detect Thoughts, Fog Cloud, Mage Hand 2/day each: Animate Dead (as an action) , Gust of Wind, Mirror Image, Nondetection 1/day each: Greater Invisibility, Polymorph, Scrying (as an action) Bonus Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature that has the charmed or grappled condition. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and Strahd regains a number of hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. A Humanoid slain in this way and then buried rises the following night as a vampire spawn under Strahd’s control. Change Shape. Strahd transforms into a new form or back into his true form. Anything he is wearing transforms with him, but nothing he is carrying does. He reverts to his true form if he dies. When transforming into a new form, Strahd chooses one of the following options: Beast Form. Strahd transforms into a Tiny bat (flying speed 30 ft.) or a Medium wolf (speed 40 ft.). While in that form, he can’t speak, and he retains his game statistics other than his size and speed. Mist Form. Strahd transforms into a Medium cloud of mist. While in this form, Strahd has a flying speed of 20 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop there. Strahd can pass through a space without squeezing as long as air can pass through that space, but he can’t pass through water. Strahd has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws, and he is immune to all nonmagical damage except the damage he takes as part of his Vampire Weaknesses trait. While in mist form, Strahd can’t take any actions, speak, or manipulate objects. Legendary Actions Strahd can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Strahd regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Cunning Escape. Strahd moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Strike (Costs 2 Actions). Strahd makes one Death Strike attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead (Vampire, Wizard)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 30583
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Vecna - Eve of Ruin

