# Succubus Dark Whisperer

**description**: This succubus joined the College of Whispers to learn their arcane secrets in order to enhance their powers of deception, manipulation, and mind control. Traits Telepathic Bond. The fiend ignores the range restriction on its telepathy when communicating with a creature it has charmed. The two don't even need to be on the same plane of existence. Actions Claw (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage. Maddening Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) psychic damage and the target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or it must use its reaction to make a melee weapon attack against one creature of the fiend's choice that the fiend can see. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect. Charm. One humanoid the fiend can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 day. The charmed target obeys the fiend's verbal or telepathic commands. If the target suffers any harm or receives a suicidal command, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. If the target successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune to this fiend's Charm for the next 24 hours. The fiend can have only one target charmed at a time. If it charms another, the effect on the previous target ends. Draining Kiss. The fiend kisses a creature charmed by it or a willing creature. The target must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 32 (5d10 + 5) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Etherealness. The fiend magically enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. Spellcasting. The fiend casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion 2/day each: dissonant whispers, enthrall, major image 1/day each: greater invisibility, mass suggestion, synaptic static Change Shape. The fiend transforms into a Small or Medium humanoid, or back into its true form. Without wings, the fiend loses its flying speed. Other than its size and speed, its game statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. This transformation ends if the fiend is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. Bonus Actions Dark Whispers. The fiend targets one creature within 30 feet of it. If the target can hear the fiend, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from the fiend by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn't take the Dash action. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn't have line of sight to the fiend, the creature can repeat the saving throw. On a success, the effect ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

