# Sunsnacker

**description**: I have a real affinity with the sunsnacker; I get hangry when I miss lunch too. Or elevenses. Or second breakfast. These gains don’t gain themself, y’know. — Heliana, Serial Cereal Snacker Type : Fey Creature Component : Suneater owlbear Bonus Tamer Improvement : Growth I and +2 Hit Dice A ferocious beast when roused, this cutie also likes belly rubs, sunbathing, and sweet treats. Be sure not to leave your dust of deliciousness unattended, or you’ll have an extremely easy-to-beguile owlbear. Such is the sunsnacker’s wont. If any of the sunsnacker’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the sunsnacker’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the sunsnacker’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the sunsnacker the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Growth I Prerequisite : become a tamer’s companion Type : Passive (companion) The sunsnacker’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its beak attack increases to a d8 . The sunsnacker gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Flame Retardant Prerequisite : 3rd-level tamer Type : Passive (companion) The sunsnacker has resistance to fire damage. Solar Beam I Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the sunsnacker can unleash a beam of radiant energy from its distended maw. Each creature in a 5-foot-wide, 30-foot-long line must make a Dexterity saving throw , taking 17 ( 5d6 ) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After the sunsnacker uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the sunsnacker’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class , the damage of this action increases to 24 ( 7d6 ). Multiattack Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action, the sunsnacker can make two beak attacks. Growth II Prerequisite : 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type : Passive (companion) The sunsnacker’s size increases to Medium, its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its beak attack increases from a d8 to d10 . Sunstep Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Active (bonus action) As a bonus action when the sunsnacker is in bright sunlight, it can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in bright sunlight. Suneater Prerequisite : 9th-level tamer Type : Active (reaction) Whenever the sunsnacker would take radiant damage, it can use its reaction to instead take no damage, metabolising the energy and regaining a number of hit points equal to the damage it would have taken after taking into account its resistance to radiant damage. It can use this reaction a number of times equal to its Constitution modifier (minimum of once) and regains all expended uses when its tamer finishes a long rest. Eye Tyrant Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer Type : Active (action) As an action while in dim light or darkness, the sunsnacker can cause its featherfronds to grow luminous and dance, appearing like a floating eye monster. Each creature within 150 feet of the sunsnacker that can see the sunsnacker but that doesn’t know that it isn’t an eye monster must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the sunsnacker for 1 hour . A creature frightened in this way must use all its movement to move away from the sunsnacker. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A target that successfully saves is immune to this sunsnacker’s Eye Tyrant action for the next 24 hours . The sunsnacker can lower its featherfronds as a bonus action, causing it to cease being luminous and no longer appear like a floating eye monster. The effect ends early on a creature if the owlbear ceases appearing like a floating eye monster, or if the creature perceives the sunsnacker’s true form (for example, if the sunsnacker becomes brightly lit). Growth III Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Growth II Type : Passive (companion) The sunsnacker’s size increases to Large, its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its beak attack increases from 1d10 to 2d6 . Solar Beam II Prerequisite : 13th-level tamer, Solar Beam I Type : Passive (companion) The damage of the sunsnacker’s Solar Beam action increases to 31 ( 9d6 ), and the length of the line increases to 60 feet . The sunsnacker gains a +1 bonus to the save DC of this action. When the sunsnacker’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class , the damage of this action increases to 42 ( 12d6 ). Growth IV Prerequisite : 17th-level tamer, Growth III Type : Passive (companion) The sunsnacker’s size increases to Huge, its Hit Die size increases to a d12 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of itsHit Dice), and the damage dice of its beak attack increases from 2d6 to 2d8 . 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

