# Sunulael, the Priest of Shadow

**description**: For eighty years, Sunulael, chief acolyte of the Great Badrua, had served the Sarcosan faithful as a devoted priest of the Sorshef. He labored on the Book of Sahi , maintaining the long traditions it extolled and initiating new priests in its ways. His reputation for piousness and generosity was well deserved, and he was considered the holiest man in Erenland. The Followers of the Sorshef are a church based on a religion of faith, one in which the gods offered lessons to their mortal children, not powers or boons. Yet during all his years, as dedicated and faithful as he was, Sunulael harbored a secret desire to know the true blessing of a god—to just once feel the touch of the divine such as in the legends of the Lost Gods of the fey. Though this desire troubled Sunulael, he could not rid himself of the hope. In time, the hope became an obsession, and the obsession became the ultimate blasphemy. Sunulael spent long hours every night deep in meditation, contemplating the heavens from the observatory at the top of the Great Badrua. In the winter of 875 TA, his meditations began to fill with subtle visions. At first, he assumed they were the signs of age, for he was hardly a young man anymore. In time, the visions gained in strength, and Sunulael began to hope that perhaps his dearest wish had come true—that the gods had finally deigned to speak to their most devout priest. Over the course of several years, Sunulael became convinced it was indeed the voice of a god speaking to him, and in truth, he was correct. It was the corrupting whispers of Izrador that intruded upon the old priest’s mind. Izrador led the poor acolyte to believe that his was the voice of Dal Sahaad, god-rider among the heavenly host. The voice slowly convinced the priest that the time had come to reawaken the force of the gods in the mortal lands and he, Sunulael, was their chosen champion. Izrador’s insidious promises slowly corrupted the old man’s thoughts, and the priest eventually became his willing instrument. Sunulael gathered about him a cadre of young acolytes that he in turn corrupted to the ways of the false Sahaad. By the time Izrador finally revealed his true essence to Sunulael, the old man was so enraptured in his devotion he took small notice. Claiming he was retiring to found a monastery, Sunulael left Sharuun and took his cult of followers to Cambrial in the summer of 881 TA, taking up residence in an old manor. Beneath the building, he constructed the first Temple of Shadow in the Southlands and erected a zordrafin corith. His clerical powers had become formidable, and his cult of the Shadow quickly grew. In a few short years, his devotees established secret temples across the south and awaited the coming of their baleful god. By the time Izrador’s forces poured out of the north, the Shadow had a large and secret following in southern Erenland. With promises of power, bribes, assassinations, and other devious means, the cult had subverted southern defenses and made the final conquest of Erenland as much a political victory as a military one. For his service to the Shadow, the devoted Sunulael was made a Night King. His mind had been turned long before, but now his body was transformed as well. He became a tall, gaunt wight, with rotted flesh hanging from a towering skeleton. He wears a rotting cowl and a crown of iron, and it is said that any mortal who looks upon his gruesome visage instantly turns to dust. Sunulael the Night King is the ranking legate of the Order of Shadow and has become a master of the necromantic arts. He commands Izrador’s legates and his growing undead hordes. He is also the willing and most frequent vessel of Izrador’s possession and suffers the delirium this brings as a kind of divine rapture. Sunulael sometimes resides in Theros Obsidia, where he is close to both his beloved god and his legate minions. He also maintains a vast and sinister laboratory on the grounds of the temple he built in Cambrial, where his acolytes work to perfect their necromancy. The city now crawls with the walking dead, hordes of which periodically march to join Izrador’s army on the borders of Erethor or in the Kaladrun Mountains. There has always been a palpable resentment on the part of the legates for the Night Kings, and particularly for Sunulael. They are offended that their order has served Izrador for thousands of years, and yet he chose an outsider to command them. Though unwilling and unable to openly oppose Sunulael and his Night King siblings, the legates seldom forego the opportunity to steal what credit, praise, and honors they can while carrying out their orders. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Sunulael fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Shadow’s Priest. Whenever Sunulael deals damage with a spell or attack, he can gain that many temporary hit points. Whenever Sunulael kills a living creature, he gains one spell slot of a level equal to one third of the creature’s total Hit Dice (minimum of one). Spellcasting. Sunulael is a 20th level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 24, +16 to hit with spell attacks). Sunulael has the following spells prepared. Cantrips (at will): chill touch, light, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): bane, command, cure wounds, inflict wounds 2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, hold person, silence, spiritual weapon 3rd level (3 slots): animate dead, bind/banish astirax, bestow curse 4th level (3 slots): death ward*, freedom of movement*, guardian of faith 5th level (3 slots): contagion, greater restoration, raise dead 6th level (2 slots): create undead, harm 7th level (2 slots): divine word, etherealness 8th level (1 slot): earthquake 9th level (1 slot): true resurrection *Sunulael casts these spells on himself before combat. Actions Spear of Damnation. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) bludgeoning damage and 18 (4d8) necrotic damage. Crown of Endings (Recharge 5-6). Sunulael selects one creature within 60 feet that can see him. That creature must make a DC 24 Charisma saving throw, suffering 41 (6d6+20) necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful save. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated. A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. The Shadow’s Benediction (Recharge 5-6). Sunulael casts two spells. Each spell must have a listed casting time of one action or one bonus action. Legendary Actions Sunulael can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options listed here. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Sunulael regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Cast Cantrip. Sunulael casts a cantrip. Vampiric Touch. Sunulael makes a melee spell attack against one creature. If he hits, he deals 13 (3d8) necrotic damage and regains hit points equal to half of the damage dealt. Fade into Mist (Costs 2 actions). Sunulael’s body disintegrates into a choking mist that flows across the room before reforming. Each creature within 5 feet of Sunulael when he uses this legendary action must make a DC 18 Constitution save. Each creature that fails is poisoned until the end of their next turn. Sunulael then moves up to half of his speed, and cannot be targeted by opportunity attacks during this movement. Lair Actions Cambrial is the seat of Sunulael’s power; in fact all of the undead that lurk and hunt within the city are his to command. Specifically, the Night King maintains a massive, sprawling laboratory in the center of Cambrial, in the buildings that once were an enclosed bazaar. Now the building is a maze of shifting hallways and sealed rooms, and every door hides some new and terrible horror. Bodies are scattered about the place like discarded refuse, and the stink of old blood and death fills the noses of anyone unlucky enough to visit. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Sunulael takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Sunulael can’t take the same lair action twice in a row. The dread energies that surround Sunulael infuse up to 1d4 humanoid corpses within 120 feet of Sunulael. These corpses rise as zombies, and they obey Sunulael’s commands. Necromantic energies emanate in a 15-foot radius from a point within 200 feet that Sunulael can see. Each living creature in that area must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or suffer one level of exhaustion. All undead creatures in that area gain advantage on their attack rolls until the initiative 20 step of the next round. The merest fraction of Izrador’s gaze lingers momentarily on one creature within 60 feet that Sunulael can see. That creature must make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or become paralyzed until the initiative 20 step of the next round.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead (night king)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 25

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

