# Swamp Giant Chieftain

**description**: Swamp giants are aggressive, simpleminded savages that constantly wander bogs and marshlands to hunt, pillage, and scavenge for food. They are unsavory, brutish creatures that stand around 13 to 14 feet tall and weigh up to 1,000 pounds. Swamp giants rely mainly on alligators and crocodiles for food and hide, but they also supplement this with other large beasts such as anacondas, deer, elks, giant fish, giant frogs, giant turtles, and humanoids. Swamp Adaptations. Swamp giants once looked like smaller hill giants, but evolution and several millennia of living in their wet and humid environments have slowly caused them to have physical adaptations. Their tough skins have become mottled and frog-like, and their hair stringy and dark green. Their eyes have evolved to see in the dark and have become very sensitive to movement. While not becoming totally amphibious, swamp giants can hold their breaths longer, enabling them to remain submerged for long periods of time in order to move closer to their targets. Electricity Generators. Swamp giants, like other giants, are known for their tremendous size and strength, as well as their ability to throw rocks at great distances. But what makes swamp giants even more dangerous is their ability to generate powerful volts of electricity like an electric eel. Anyone caught within the vicinity of this discharge is often instantly slain. Those few that survive the electrical attack usually remain stunned and only live long enough to be finished off by the giants' axes. Xenophobic Giants. Swamp giants are wary of humanoids, especially lizardfolk, and hunt those that stray too close to their lands. Swamp giants particularly hate lizardfolk as the latter have become their oldest rivals and threats for controlling territories. They fear black dragons that encroach in their domain and will try to eliminate them while they are still young because older black dragons tend to enslave swamp giants and use them as guards. Swamp giants tolerate the company of trolls and may work with them to form raiding parties. Giant-Kin Giant-kin are the smaller, distantly-related cousins of the true giants. Most look like their brutish kin but some resemble large versions of the common humanoid races. Despite their variations, giant-kin unmistakably embody the essence of true giants, holding a pervasive belief in the innate weakness and inferiority of humanoids. Giant-kin usually form small clans or tribes. They are often encountered working as mercenaries or hired guards. Traits Hold Breath. The giant can hold its breath for 15 minutes. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two attacks. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) slashing damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Electricity Surge (Recharge 5–6). Each creature outside water within 5 feet of the giant, or each creature in a body of water within 15 feet of the giant, must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 36 (8d8) lightning damage and is stunned until the end of the giant’s next turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn’t stunned. Bonus Actions War Whoop (1/Day). Each creature of the giant's choice that is within 60 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by War Whoop gain advantage on attack rolls and saving throws against being charmed and frightened until the start of the giant's next turn. Reactions Trigger Electricity Surge. When a creature within 5 feet of the giant hits the giant with a melee attack and the giant's Electricity Surge is available, the giant uses Electricity Surge. Legendary Actions The giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The giant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The giant moves up to its speed. Attack. The giant makes a melee or ranged attack. Whirling Axe (Costs 3 Actions). The giant moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and targets each creature within 5 feet of it during its movement. Each target must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 18 (2d12 + 5) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

