# Sword Saint

**description**: The sword saint is a living master of the sword whose preternatural skills are hailed throughout the Empire. From the kenshinzen duelists of the Crane Clan who master lightning-fast iaijutsu techniques to the greatest warmasters of the Lion Clan, sword saints are the very scale by which all students of the blade are measured. To witness a single strike of a sword saint is to experience a moment of spiritual clarity—their bond with their blade is considered sacred. Only a handful of bushi and duelists per generation achieve this level of mastery, a few of whom are described below. Kakita Toshimoko. Called “The Grey Crane,” Kakita Toshimoko is a kenshinzen of the Crane Clan whose skill is legend across the land. An older gentleman with flowing grey locks, Toshimoko’s face is often graced with a playful smile. A master of iaijutsu, Toshimoko is known almost as much for his lackadaisical attitude as his transcendent skill. Toshimoko is friendly but carries a biting wit, welcoming but wily, often drunk, and unquestionably one of the deadliest duelists in the Emerald Empire. Frequently found in tea houses and inns, Toshimoko is often taken for a wastrel by other samurai, and he has humiliated many arrogant warriors who have made this mistake. Akodo Toshiro. A relatively unknown soldier in the service of the up-and-coming commander Ikoma Tsanuri, Akodo Toshiro is perhaps the greatest swordsman of his generation. However, he dislikes the facility with which he cuts others down, and goes out of his way to conceal his skills to avoid challengers. He would surely be storied in dozens of tales of epic duels if he sought to expand his glory, or if he was ordered to do so by Tsanuri. Mirumoto Hitomi. The most promising young hero of the Dragon Clan, Mirumoto Hitomi is a duelist driven by revenge. Her quarry is Hida Yakamo, who cut down her brother in a duel years ago. Since then, she has trained in her ancestor Mirumoto’s dual-wielding Niten tradition and taken every opportunity possible to cut down members of the Crab Clan in battle in the hopes of drawing Yakamo into a fateful duel. Table A-2: Wandering Duelist & Sword Saint Motivations D12 Roll Wandering Duelist & Sword Saint Motivations 1 Wants to earn enough money to buy a drink and maybe a space in an inn. 2 Lives for the thrill of victory. 3 Searches for their purpose in a world that often seems purposeless. 4 Seeks revenge upon a foe who killed their mentor, friend, or family member. 5 Desires to have a good time, and enjoy whatever life brings them. 6 Fights to keep someone else safe at any cost. 7 Wants to build a reputation as the deadliest duelist in the region. 8 Desires to dispense justice upon the wicked and protect the meek. 9 Is seeking a student worthy of carrying on their martial tradition. 10 Desires to find a foe whose strength exceeds their own. 11 Wants to prove their martial style is superior to all others. 12 Only feels alive when crossing blades with a worthy foe. Traits Focus Points. At the end of its turn, the sword saint gains 1 focus point for each attack it made and 1 focus point for each time it was hit by an attack since the end of its last turn. Martial Techniques. The sword saint can perform the following martial techniques so long as it has sufficient focus points to spend: 1+ focus points: snapping branch strike , soul-sundering strike 2+ focus points: flashing steel cut , flowing water strike , iaijutsu cut: rising blade , soaring thunderbolt strike 3+ focus points: iaijutsu cut: crossing blade Legend of a Hundred Battles. The sword saint’s AC is treated as 21 by anyone not currently dueling the sword saint. Actions A Worthy Challenge. The sword saint calls out one creature that can perceive it for a one-on-one duel. That creature must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On success, the creature can choose to accept or reject the duel. On failure, the creature must accept the duel, and begins with 1 danger die. Multiattack. The sword saint makes five attacks. One or more of these attacks can be used for martial techniques. Katana. Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8+7) or 12 (1d10+7) slashing damage. This attack inflicts a critical hit on a roll of 18, 19, or 20. Wakizashi. Melee Weapon Attack : +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6+5) slashing damage. Reactions Blade Catch. The sword saint catches a weapon attack in midair with their bare hand. The attack deals 0 damage. If the attack was a melee weapon attack, the character making the attack must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On failure, it is disarmed of its weapon. If the attack was a ranged attack, the sword saint hurls the projectile back at the attacker, which must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or suffer damage equal to the damage of the projectile plus 5. The sword saint cannot use this reaction again until it completes a short rest or wins a duel. Disorienting Parry. The sword saint adds +6 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. It must be wielding a melee weapon and must be able to perceive the attacker. If this causes the attack to miss during a duel, the attacker gains 2 danger dice. Legendary Actions The sword saint can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at the time, and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The sword saint regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Battle in the Mind. The sword saint plays out the battle mentally, adding 2 danger dice to an opponent they are dueling. Bend as the Reed. The sword saint subtly shifts out of the way, throwing an opponent off-balance. One Small, Medium, or Large creature within 5 feet must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On failure, that creature is knocked prone and immediately moves 5 feet in a direction of the sword saint’s choice without provoking opportunity attacks unless it chooses to suffer 10 (2d8+2) bludgeoning damage. Steely Gaze. The sword saint’s terrifying attention falls upon one creature within 15 feet. That character must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On failure, that creature becomes frightened of the sword saint unless it chooses to suffer 10 (2d8+2) psychic damage. A creature that fails can repeat this save at the start of each of its turns.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any species)
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

