# Sword Archon

**description**: The fearsome sword archons are the marshals of Mount Celestia, in charge of enforcing the law and maintaining the peace. They appear as 8-foot-tall humanoids with muscular bodies and attractive features. Their eyes and magnificent-looking wings faintly glow with a golden-orange radiance. Sword Arms. Sword archons are known for their prowess in combat and their ability to transform their forearms into magical flaming swords that can't be disarmed. They are particularly feared for their ability to discorporate their quarries with their sword arms, sending their souls to be imprisoned in Mount Celestia. While they serve a role similar to justice archons, sword archons specialize in hunting and dealing with more significant threats, such as powerful fiends and undead. Archons The mighty archons are exalted celestial champions who maintain peace, uphold justice, and serve the angels and deities of Arcadia, Bytopia, and the Seven Heavens of Mount Celestia. Benevolent Guardians. Whereas angels act more as agents, commanders, and generals, archons fill the role of soldiers, scouts, and support specialists. They protect the innocent and defenseless and aid the wounded and sick. They despise and stand against malevolent supernatural creatures such as demons, devils, yugoloths, and evil undead. They capture and bring to justice powerful creatures who have performed depraved and despicable acts. Unfortunately, their unwavering sense of righteousness often leaves them vulnerable to manipulation and conflict. Blessed Champions . Archons never willingly use violence unless it is necessary. However, if combat is unavoidable, archons can be a terrifying thing to behold as they become justice and vengeance personified. They radiate an aura of menace that can sap the will of their foes. Archons are expert battle tacticians, able to teleport at will and cast powerful divine spells that can aid allies and banish foes. In addition to their impressive powers, they are also fearless, tireless, resistant to most attacks, and can’t be charmed. Divine Agents . While they rarely leave Mount Celestia, archons can be encountered anywhere, even in the Lower Planes. They frequently travel to the Material Plane on a variety of missions, acting as couriers, messengers, spies, or marshals. Archons have been known to assist adventurers, especially if they are favored by their deities. Types of Archons . There are eight major types of archons, each with different characteristics and abilities. The hound archon, justice archon, and lantern archons are the most numerous ones, and make up the bulk of the archon army, serving as foot soldiers, guards, and scouts. The owl archon, trumpet archon, and warden archon are specialists, while the sword archon and the throne archon act as military officers. Immortal Nature . An archon doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Aura of Menace. The archon emanates an aura of menace in a 30-foot radius. The first time any enemy creature enters the aura or starts its turn there during a battle, the creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the archon for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. Flyby. The archon doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. Magic Resistance. The archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Discorporating Dive (3/Day). If the archon is flying and dives at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with an armblade attack, the archon can force the target to make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 22 (5d8) radiant damage and 22 (5d8) fire damage and the target is disintegrated if this damage leaves it with 0 hit points. A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. In addition, a disintegrated humanoid's soul is sent to a prison in the Seven Heavens of Celestia. Until its soul is released or a wish spell is used, the creature cannot be restored to life. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage. Actions Multiattack. The archon makes two Armblade attacks. Armblade. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) radiant damage and 4 (1d8) fire damage. Spellcasting . The archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: aid (3rd level), continual flame, detect evil and good 3/day: dispel magic, enemies abound, locate object 1/day each: dispel evil and good, locate creature Teleport. The archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Bonus Actions Armblades. The archon transforms the flesh of its forearms, hardening and sharpening them into the form of divine, fiery swordblades, or vice versa. The archon's armblade attacks are considered magical.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

