# Tarkun the Desiccated

**description**: Wisps of grit dart around the creature’s powerful form, his body seemingly made of sand. Only his tall, twisted horns belie this vision, a hint of what lurks beneath. Once a powerful and well-to-do Fey Lord, Tarkun’s aspirations were set too high for his abilities. When a coup against a Fey Lady failed, Tarkun was stripped of his power and banished into the desert, where the Lady believed he would perish. Weakened and dying, Tarkun reached deep within the wastelands around him, tying the power of the ley lines he found there to the very fiber of his being. While the effort twisted and marred his once-beautiful form, he found not only a fountain of life but new power at his fingertips. The sands now answer the call of Tarkun the Desiccated. Coarse Visage. Though his form is now shriveled and marred, Tarkun never lost his vanity. The fallen Fey Lord wills sand to enshroud him in a form that looks much like his former beauty, albeit a bit coarse. When incensed, gaps appear in his visage as the sand swirls about, revealing glimpses of his desiccated form beneath. Sandy Minions. Tarkun controls an ever-growing army of apaxrusl , which he is able to communicate with telepathically at any distance as long as they are within his desert. Able to speak through any of his minions’ mouths, Tarkun can also experience their senses. He shares this connection with his zalikum , Hevn, as well. Desert Prison. The desert has given him new power and granted him life, but Tarkun is trapped within its confines. He cannot leave the desert by any means, mundane or magical. With his powers, he is slowly pushing that barrier outward, covering the surrounding lands in sand. He strives for a future when he has regained his former power and can smother the fey courts in his sandy retribution. Sandbound Nature. While in a desert, Tarkun doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Regional Effects The desert creeps along with Tarkun wherever he goes, which creates one or more of the following effects: Sandstorms are common within 6 miles of Tarkun. If Tarkun spends 24 hours within 1 mile of a plant that is not acclimated to surviving in the desert, the plant wilts and dies at the end of the 24 hours. If Tarkun spends 1 week within 1 mile of an oasis pond or small lake, the body of water dries up at the end of the week. If Tarkun spends 1 month within 1 mile of a non-desert biome, the biome becomes a desert at the end of the month. If Tarkun dies, plants that died don’t return to life, but the other effects fade over the course of 1d10 days. Touch of Cold Iron Lords and ladies of the fey courts are timeless creatures, inured to many of the world’s threats. A universal exception to this is weapons of cold-wrought iron. This metal undoes the very fabric of a fey creature’s life as it blights their ageless flesh. A cold iron weapon is treated as magical when used against any fey creature, and is the only weapon with any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords and ladies. However, cold iron weapons are difficult to construct. The skill and material required to produce such a weapon doubles its price or adds 100 gp to the cost, whichever is more. Finding a smith with the skill to make a durable weapon without the aid of fire is always difficult—and finding one with the courage to anger the fey courts may be even harder.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

