# Tarn Linnorm

**description**: Linnorm The powerful, serpentine beings known as linnorms might be related distantly to the more well-known dragons, but their draconic physiologies are where any such similarities end. Whereas true dragons boast incredible intellectual capabilities and far-reaching plans, linnorms are driven only by their insatiable hunger and desire to inflict cruelty on others. Linnorms are exceptionally difficult to outwit due to their strong wills, and it’s not wise to try bargaining with them—when faced with one of these legendary beasts, one’s best option is flight, pure and simple. Failing that, a noble death remains a viable back-up plan. Tarn Linnorm The two-headed tarn linnorm can wreak an awe-inspiring amount of devastation. They most commonly dwell in remote mountain lakes. Traits Amphibious. The tarn linnorm can breathe air and water. Creature of Primal Magic. The tarn linnorm is constantly under the effects of freedom of movement . Curse of Death. When a creature slays a tarn linnorm, it must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or be cursed. If the save fails, the target can no longer be affected by healing spells and does not heal damage naturally from rest. This curse is treated as the spell bestow curse cast from a 9th level slot. Draconic Nature. The tarn linnorm does not age, and magic can’t put the linnorm to sleep. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the tarn linnorm fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The tarn linnorm has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. The linnorm regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn. If the linnorm takes fire damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of its next turn. The linnorm dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Two Heads. When the tarn linnorm uses its breath weapon, it can use its bonus action to have its second head use one of the following effects: The second head makes a bite attack. The second head uses its breath weapon, creating an adjacent 60-foot cone of acid. If this happens, the linnorm’s breath weapon recharges on a 6 for its next use, rather than on a 5–6. Actions Multiattack. The tarn linnorm makes five attacks: two bite attacks (one per head), two claw attacks, and one tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10+9) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6+9) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 30 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (3d4+9) bludgeoning damage. If the target is Huge or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 19). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, the tarn linnorm can automatically hit the target with its tail, and he can’t make tail attacks against other targets. Breath Weapon (Recharge 5–6). The tarn linnorm exhales acid in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 77 (22d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The tarn linnorm can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The tarn linnorm regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The tarn linnorm makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The tarn linnorm makes a tail attack. Stoke the Fires (Costs 2 Actions). The tarn linnorm focuses its internal acid gland, allowing it to roll immediately to recharge its breath weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

