# Tarrasque (Variant)

**description**: The tarrasque presented here is a more challenging variant the DM can choose to use. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the tarrasque fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The tarrasque has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. The tarrasque regains 100 hit points at the start of its turn. If the tarrasque takes acid damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the tarrasque's next turn. The tarrasque dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Reflective Carapace. Any time the tarrasque is targeted by a magic missile spell, a line spell, or a spell that requires a ranged attack roll, roll a d6. On a 1 to 5, the tarrasque is unaffected. On a 6, the tarrasque is unaffected, and the effect is reflected back at the caster as though it originated from the tarrasque, turning the caster into the target. Siege Monster. The tarrasque deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack. The tarrasque can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes five attacks: one with its Bite, two with its Claw, one with its Horns, and one with its Tail. It can use its Swallow instead of its Bite. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 36 (4d12 + 10) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 20). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the tarrasque can't use Bite on another target. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d8 + 10) slashing damage. Horns. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d8 + 10) piercing damage. If the attack roll succeeds by 5 or more, the target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the tarrasque's next turn. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Disintegration Breath (Recharge 6). The tarrasque exhales devastating radiant energy in a 240-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking takes 75 (10d6 + 40) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated. A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a true resurrection or a wish spell. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the tarrasque's choice within 120 feet of it and aware of it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the tarrasque is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the tarrasque's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Swallow. The tarrasque makes one Bite attack against a Large or smaller creature it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target takes the Bite's damage, the target is swallowed, and the grapple ends. While swallowed, the creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the tarrasque, and it takes 56 (l6d6) acid damage at the start of each of the tarrasque's turns. If the tarrasque takes 60 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the tarrasque must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of the tarrasque. If the tarrasque dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 30 feet of movement, exiting prone. Bonus Actions Earth-Shaking Movement. After moving at least 10 feet on the ground, the tarrasque sends a shock wave through the ground in a 120-foot-radius circle centered on itself. That area becomes difficult terrain for 1 minute. Each creature on the ground that is concentrating must succeed on a DC 27 Constitution saving throw or the creature’s concentration is broken. The shock wave deals 100 thunder damage to all structures in contact with the ground in the area. If a creature is near a structure that collapses, the creature might be buried; a creature within half the distance of the structure’s height must make a DC 27 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 17 (5d6) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and is trapped in the rubble. A trapped creature is restrained, requiring a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to escape. Another creature within 5 feet of the buried creature can use its action to clear rubble and grant advantage on the check. If three creatures use their actions in this way, the check is an automatic success. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and doesn’t fall prone or become trapped. Legendary Actions The tarrasque can take three legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The tarrasque regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The tarrasque makes one Claw attack or Tail attack. Move. The tarrasque moves up to half its speed. Chomp (Costs 2 Actions). The tarrasque makes one Bite attack or uses its Swallow.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Monstrosity (Titan)
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 30

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

