# Tarul Var

**description**: After failing in an earlier task for the Red Wizards, the lich Tarul Var is sequestered within the Doomvault ( Dead in Thay ), where he tries to avoid the attention of Szass Tam. Interlopers who discover his quarters are set upon by the lich and his dread warrior guards, but if Var is brought to the brink of death, he might bargain for a chance to escape the dungeon. Undead Nature. A lich doesn't require air, food, drink, or sleep. Traits Focused Conjuration . While Var is concentrating on a conjuration spell, his concentration can't be broken as a result of taking damage. Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If Var fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Rejuvenation . If Var is destroyed but his phylactery remains intact, Var gains a new body in 1d10 days, regaining all his hit points and becoming active again. The new body appears within 5 feet of the phylactery. Spellcasting . Var is a 12th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): fire bolt, mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation, ray of frost 1st level (4 slots): detect magic, magic missile, shield, unseen servant* 2nd level (3 slots): detect thoughts, flaming sphere*, mirror image, scorching ray 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, dispel magic, fireball 4th level (3 slots): dimension door*, Evard's black tentacles* 5th level (3 slots): cloudkill*, scrying 6th level (1 slot): circle of death *Conjuration spell of 1st level or higher Turn Resistance . Var has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead. Actions Paralyzing Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: (3d6) cold damage. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Benign Transposition. Var teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Alternatively, he can choose a space within range that is occupied by a Small or Medium creature. If that creature is willing, both creatures teleport, swapping places. Var can use this feature again only after he finishes a long rest or casts a conjuration spell of 1st level or higher. Legendary Actions Tarul Var can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Tarul Var regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Cantrip. Var casts a cantrip. Paralyzing Touch (Costs 2 Actions). Var uses Paralyzing Touch. Frightening Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). Var fixes his gaze on one creature he can see within 10 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or become frightened for 1 minute. The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to Var's gaze for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7386
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Tales from the Yawning Portal

