# Taryon Darrington

**description**: Gleaming, resplendent, and overflowing with indefatigable confidence, Taryon Gary Darrington is every bit the man he was when he parted ways with Vox Machina over twenty years ago. These days, though, all the bravado and good cheer he had two decades ago is real—not just an act. Tary doesn’t need to fake it anymore; he’s made it. Even if responsibility doesn’t come easily to him, he takes it whenever he has to. After the Epilogue. After many years running the Darrington Brigade—his heroic adventuring band—and publishing several absolutely true accounts of their exploits, Taryon realized his adventuring checklist was essentially complete. He left his home in Deastok, in Wildemount’s Dwendalian Empire, and began a new chapter of his life. Leaving the brigade in the capable hands of his sister, Maryanne, and his confidant Lionel Gayheart, Taryon traveled around launching several smaller “satellite” brigades in Wildemount’s most dangerous lands. Then, realizing he had spent his career as a writer of nonfiction adventure books, he decided to try his hand at fiction instead. With his trusty scribe and majordomo Doty X at his side (“Doty Ten,” he patiently explains to anyone who mispronounces it), Taryon and his husband Lawrence moved to the Menagerie Coast, setting up in a small writing cottage in Port Damali. While Lawrence tutors local students, Taryon has been dashing off novel after novel. His most successful books are a series called “The Deastok Mysteries,” which feature a young, handsome blonde boy who solves crimes around Wildemount with his brilliant intellect and trusty robot sidekick. From time to time, Taryon charters a skyship to visit his old friends in Whitestone and enjoy the memories of their time together as full-fledged members of Vox Machina. The Automatic Scribe, Doty. Doty X is much like past models of Tary's mechanical servant—vaguely humanoid but not too expressive. The new model is sleek and stylish, and not built for battle. Doty’s vocabulary has grown to six words: “Tary,” “Yes,” “Correct,” “Absolutely,” “Soon,” and “Handsome.” The scribe also features a built-in shelf of Taryon’s favorite books—that is, his favorite books that he’s written himself—in case Taryon needs to make a sale while he’s on holiday. Vox Machina Heroes. Scoundrels. Legends. Dumbasses. The legacy of the adventuring party Vox Machina is a complicated one. Over the course of their adventures, they’ve selflessly saved the lives of thousands of people in Tal’Dorei, Wildemount, Issylra, and beyond. Of course, there are also countless tales of individuals they’ve bullied, threatened, insulted, or otherwise needlessly antagonized throughout those same adventures. These legendary figures grew from a band of dime-a-dozen sellswords in the swamp burgh of Stilben to gods-blessed warriors whose actions might have saved all of Exandria from a future of undead tyranny. The deeds of Vox Machina are sung by bards across Tal’Dorei, often exaggerating those already belief-defying tales of gods and monsters and magic. But though their legend has grown wild and unruly, the members of Vox Machina are still people. More than twenty years have passed since their last great campaign. Most of them are still alive, and the lives of these heroes have changed—in big ways and in smaller, more subtle ones. Those among them who age have softer bodies and lines on their faces. Those among them who don’t age still show the weight of the world upon their shoulders. By and large, the members of Vox Machina have set aside weapons, armor, and spells in favor of more subtle ways of helping others. Some lead the lands they were born to lead. Others have been elected to the Tal’Dorei Council, shaping the fate of the continent’s people with quiet wisdom rather than blades and battle cries. Still, each member of this legendary band of adventurers would take up arms again in an instant if it meant protecting those they care for the most. And the Vestiges of Divergence, whose power they unlocked in the battles against the Cinder King and the Whispered One, are still within their grasp. The following stat blocks are here for GMs to use if their players encounter a member of Vox Machina—hopefully as an ally or a "quest giver," for woe betide anyone who encounters these legendary heroes as a foe. These statistics don’t represent the full extent of the characters’ abilities as 20th-level adventurers, but have been streamlined to make them easier for the Game Master to run. Traits Alchemical Defense. Tary’s experimental concoctions have granted him resistance to acid and poison damage, and immunity to the poisoned condition. Doty. Doty moves and acts on Tary’s turn, and Tary can use a bonus action to command him to use the Dash, Dodge, Disengage, or Attack action. He can also command him to Attack as part of his Multitask action (see below). Doty can take only one action on each of Tary’s turns. Focused. Tary has advantage on Constitution saving throws made to maintain concentration on spells. Special Equipment. Tary wears a helm of brilliance , a robe of useful items , and a ring of the ram . He carries a rod of mercurial form , as well as a bag of holding , 1d4 + 4 beads of force , a broom of flying , and a chime of opening . Spellcasting. Tary is a 15th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): mending, prestidigitation, ray of frost (3d8) 1st level (4 slots): detect magic, heroism, identify, shield 2nd level (3 slots): alter self, branding smite, see invisibility, warding bond 3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, fly, haste, magic circle, revivify 4th level (2 slots): banishment, fabricate, fire shield Toughness. Tary has an additional 30 hit points. Actions Multitask. Tary makes two weapon attacks or casts a spell with a casting time of 1 action, and can also command Doty to use his Empowered Fist or Repair action. Mercurial Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d10 + 1) slashing damage. Bead of Force. Tary throws a bead of force up to 60 feet. Each creature within a 10-foot radius of where the bead landed must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 12 (5d4) force damage. A sphere of transparent force then encloses the area for 1 minute. A creature that fails the save and is completely within the area is trapped inside the sphere. Reactions Brilliant Intellect. When Tary or another creature he can see within 30 feet of him makes an ability check or a saving throw, he can use his reaction to add +4 to the roll.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

