# Tasha the Witch

**description**: Tasha’s path to greatness began when she was adopted by the arch-hag Baba Yaga, who named her Natasha. Tasha went on to create various spells, including Tasha’s Hideous Laughter , and her magic-fueled ambitions brought her into contact with demons and demon lords, which she subjugated and used against her enemies. On the Material Plane, she became known as Iggwilv the Witch Queen and wrote the Demonomicon of Iggwilv , the greatest of all treatises on the Abyss and its demonic inhabitants. In recent years, Tasha has sequestered herself in the Feywild, achieving incredible power and slowly turning into a Fey creature. Tasha has become Zybilna, archfey of the domain of Prismeer. Answering the Summons When Zybilna received Alustriel Silverhand’s summons to combat Vecna, the archfey was sorely needed in Prismeer. As a compromise, and to honor Tasha’s friendship with Alustriel, Zybilna sent a version of herself from the past to Alustriel’s side. The Tasha who appears in the adventure is a powerful wizard, though she is not yet a witch queen or an archfey. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Tasha fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Tasha has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. (This trait is bestowed by her Robe of the Archmagi.) Special Equipment. Tasha wears a Robe of the Archmagi. Actions Multiattack. Tasha makes two Caustic Blast attacks and uses Psychic Whip once. Caustic Blast. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (6d4 + 6) acid damage. Psychic Whip. Tasha psychically lashes out at one creature she can see within 90 feet of herself. The target must make a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage and has the stunned condition until the start of Tasha’s next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage only. Spellcasting. Tasha casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 22, +14 to hit with spell attacks): At will: Detect Magic, Disguise Self, Dispel Magic, Light, Mage Hand, Message, Prestidigitation, Tasha’s Hideous Laughter 2/day: Polymorph 1/day each: Maze, Telekinesis Bonus Actions Abyssal Visage (2/Day). For 1 minute, Tasha gains a flying speed of 30 feet, is immune to poison damage and the poisoned condition, and has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that doesn’t have all its hit points. These benefits end early if Tasha has the incapacitated condition or if she uses another bonus action to dismiss them. Reactions Arcane Rebuff. Immediately after Tasha takes damage, she unleashes arcane energy in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on herself. All other creatures in that area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 19 (3d12) lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Tasha then teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, to an unoccupied space she can see within 60 feet of herself.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human, Wizard)
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 30583
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Vecna - Eve of Ruin

