# Tatzling

**description**: You know, mein experiments haf blöwn up in mein face far less since zis chappy has been helpink me in ze laboratory. But last night, I did see him slip on a patch of beer and knock over a broom, which hit Peeper und sent him flyink into Lut’s bar, knockink ovr every bottle ov rum she owns. Such an unfortunate kreature… — Humperdink, Recently Lucky Type: Dragon Creature Component: Silver dragon Bonus Tamer Improvement: Growth I and +2 Hit Dice With a distinctive lopsided horn, scales of a deep midnight hue, and a sinuous, eel-like body, it is hard to believe that the tatzel family is a close relative of the silver dragon. Though more introverted than their gregarious argent cousins, tatzelwurms and their biomantic counterparts, tatzlings, are just as friendly towards those in need. Widely regarded as a sign of impending doom and misfortune, superstitious folk the world over ward their homes against these sleek shadow-cats. This is to the villagers’ detriment, however; tatzlings have the unique ability to draw bad luck from others. In fact, it is this aspect that makes a tatzling such a great protector and causes its most innocent failures to become disastrous. If any of the tatzling’s traits or actions require saving throws, it is always against the tatzling’s save DC, as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the tatzling’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer Growth I Prerequisite: become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion) The tatzling’s size increases to Small and its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d8 and its Claws to a d6. The tatzling gains this improvement when it becomes a companion; it doesn’t cost an improvement. Harden I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The tatzling gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. Cold Demeanour Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the tatzling creates a magical protective shield that surrounds it, covering its scales in a delicate patina of hoarfrost. It gains temporary hit points equal to three times its tamer’s proficiency bonus for 1 minute. If a creature hits it with a melee attack while it has these temporary hit points, the creature takes cold damage equal to three times its tamer’s proficiency bonus. After the tatzling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Growth II Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer, Growth I Type: Passive (companion) The tatzling’s size increases to Medium and its Hit Die size increases to a d8 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d10 and its Claws to a d8. Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the tatzling can make two attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Claws. Slowing Gaze Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the tatzling targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it that can see it. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be affected by the slow spell until the start of the tatzling’s next turn, until the tatzling can no longer see it, until it is more than 60 feet from the tatzling, or until the tatzling chooses to end the effect (no action required). At the start of its subsequent turns, the tatzling can use its bonus action to extend the effect’s duration to the start of its next turn. For the effect’s duration, the tatzling has disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures other than the target of this effect. After the tatzling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. Harden II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Harden I Type: Passive (companion) The tatzling gains a +2 bonus to its AC while it isn’t wearing armour. This improvement is in addition to the bonus from Harden I. Aura of Protection Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Passive (tamer and allies) Whenever a creature friendly to the tatzling makes a saving throw while within 10 feet of the tatzling, the creature gains a bonus to the saving throw equal to the tatzling’s Constitution modifier (minimum +1). The tatzling must be conscious to grant this bonus. Growth III Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Growth II Type: Passive (companion) The tatzling’s size increases to Large and its Hit Die size increases to a d10 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice). The damage die of its Bite attack increases to a d12 and its Claws to a d10. Slowing Glare Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Slowing Gaze Type: Active (action) As an action, each creature of the tatzling’s choice in a 40-foot cone originating from its eyes must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or become affected by the slow spell for 1 minute. An affected creature can repeat this saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. After the tatzling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. When the tatzling’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, this effect’s cone increases to 60 feet. Freezing Blast Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Cold Demeanour Type: Active (action), Passive (companion) The tatzling gains immunity to cold damage. As an action, the tatzling causes temperatures to plummet. Each creature within 20 feet of it must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) cold damage on a failure, or half as much damage on a success. In addition, surfaces in the area become covered in a thin sheet of ice that lasts for 1 minute. When the ice appears, each creature standing on it must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. A creature that enters the area for the first time on its turn or ends its turn there must also succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. The tatzling automatically succeeds on these Dexterity saving throws. After the tatzling uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

