# Tatzelwurm

**description**: This draconic creature's serpentine tail whips sinuously back and forth as the beast rushes forward on two short, taloned legs. Despite its scaly skin, its head resembles a cat's, and its forked tongue darts from a fanged mouth leaking acrid vapors. Though lesser dragons, tatzelwurms are nonetheless vicious, dangerous predators. Most inhabit forested hills and mountains, lairing in natural caves, hollow trees, or deadfalls. Some tatzelwurms lair in abandoned mines, and in some cases even chase miners out of a preferred site. Setting Out Bait. Their hunting methods vary, but many tatzelwurms use bait to lure prey into an ambush, setting out piles of fruit, grains, carrion, or even treasure to attract food into their clutches. They pounce from hiding, coiling their snake-like body and releasing it like a spring, allowing for jumps that rival those of great cats. Others prefer to drop from trees onto prey. Whistles and Hisses. The tatzel wurm is known for its horrible shrieks, low whistles, and hisses, and these noises can distract or frighten foes. Mounted riders find their mounts may be scared off or may rear on hearing a tatzelwurm's hiss. These sounds are also used as a warning to rivals and in mating season to attract mates. Poisonous Blood . A tatzelwurm's blood is as toxic as its venomous bite. When the Tatzelwurm takes piercing or slashing damage, each creature within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 5 (2d4) poison damage. A creature that consumes the flesh of a tatzelwurm must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 8 hours. Pounce. If the tazelwurm moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the tazelwurm can make one Bite attack against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack. The tatzelwurm makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) poison damage. Claw . Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 3) slashing damage. Poisonous Breath (Recharge 6) . The tatzelwurm exhales a cloud of poisonous vapor in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 21 (6d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't poisoned. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The tatzelwurm can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The tatzelwurm regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The tatzelwurm moves up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Angry Hiss (Costs 2 Actions). The tatzelwurm gives a loud, menacing hiss. Each creature within 30 feet of the tatzelwurm must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened until the end of its next turn. Tail Slap (Costs 2 Actions). The tatzelwurm swings its tail in a wide arc around it. Each creature within 10 feet of the tatzelwurm must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

