# Taurusphinx

**description**: The irascible and dimwitted taurusphinx possesses the body of a lion, the wings of a falcon, and the head of a bull. It is a very territorial creature and will attack and drive off anything that it sees encroaching where it lives, including other male sphinxes. The taurusphinx has an intense desire for gynosphinxes and will stop at nothing to mate with them. It collects treasure in the hopes of offering it to a gynosphinx. Gynosphinxes detest taurusphinxes, however, and avoid them at all costs. Grasslands Hunter. The taurusphinx is usually found in plains, grassy hills, savannahs, and tundras and makes its lair in caves and ruins. The taurusphinx is omnivorous, feeding primarily on grass but supplements its diet with meat. It usually hunts grazing mammals but will not hesitate to prey on humanoids if food is scarce. Mighty Beast. In combat, a taurusphinx will first charge at its prey, goring it with its massive horns. If the target is still alive after this brutal attack, the taurusphinx usually finishes it off with its raking claws. Against numerous or more formidable foes, the taurusphinx will use its powerful bellow to deafen and stun them. Sphinxes Not all sphinxes are divine guardians tasked to guard gods' treasures. Some sphinxes, like the canisphinx, crocosphinx, dracosphinx, luposphinx, taurusphinx, and the threskisphinx, are free to do as they please. They sometimes work as mercenaries, offering their services to powerful entities. Traits Charge. If the sphinx moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a Gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 11 (2d10) piercing damage. Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Reckless. At the start of its turn, the sphinx can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls it makes during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn. Magic Weapons. The sphinx's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The sphinx makes three attacks: one Gore attack and two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage. Bellow (2/Day). The sphinx emits a magical bellow. Each time it bellows before finishing a long rest, the bellow is louder and the effect is different, as detailed below. Each creature within 60 feet of the sphinx and able to hear the bellow must make a saving throw. First Bellow. Each creature that fails a DC 14 Constitution saving throw is deafened for 1 minute. A deafened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Second Bellow. Each creature that fails a DC 14 Constitution saving throw is deafened for 1 minute. A deafened creature is stunned and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The sphinx can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The sphinx regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw Attack. The sphinx makes one Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The sphinx magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Raking Pounce (Costs 3 Actions). The sphinx moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks and makes two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

