# Tentacled Crab

**description**: The hulking crabs relentlessly lumber forth across the land. Strange, orange tentacles rise up from their drab topsides and sway gently back and forth, humming a hypnotic alien song. They press on as though seeking something no one else can see. When an arcane calamity of uncontrolled power tore the veil between planes, the tentacled crabs crossed over into the wastes from another world. They gather in herds and roam the land, feeling the air with their tentacles for eldritch energy. They are particularly drawn to planar portals, where their songs can hypnotize and draw forth their preferred prey, creatures with innate magical qualities. No one has successfully tamed a tentacled crab, but there are tales told of bold individuals who have caught and kept one in order to follow it to magically rich locations. Tentacled crabs are not normally aggressive unless they sense magic in or on a creature. If they have gone without consuming magical energy for some time, they will eat whatever creatures are stunned by their song, converging in a group to devour them before resuming their endless search. Experienced explorers of the wastes know that tentacled crabs are more dangerous in large numbers, as the strength of the hypnotic effect of their communal song depends on how many of them are present. The best way to escape or distract a herd of tentacled crabs is to toss a magic item to them, for they will spend days crushing it with their claws to destroy it and consume its energy. Frequent travelers in the wastes with the means to do so often carry some minor magic item that they’re willing to sacrifice should they encounter a herd. TRAITS Amphibious. The crab can breathe air and water. Arcane Sense. The crab knows the direction to every creature with innate magical abilities, magic item, planar portal, and spell cast within 1 mile of it. Magic Resistance. The crab has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. ACTIONS Multiattack. The tentacled crab makes two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d8 + 4) force damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 14). The crab has two claws, each of which can grapple only one target. BONUS ACTIONS Tentacle Song. The tentacled crab begins humming with its tentacles. A tentacled crab can continue singing until its concentration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any creature within 120 feet of it who can hear it must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed by the tentacled crab and incapacitated. While charmed in this way, the target’s movement is controlled by the tentacled crab. A charmed target may repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success or if it can no longer hear the song. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to any tentacled crab’s Tentacle Song for 24 hours. Whenever the tentacled crab deals damage to the charmed creature, the charmed creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. The DC of the saving throw increases by 1 for each additional tentacled crab that can be heard singing by a creature, but a creature can only be targeted by one crab’s Tentacle Song on its turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

