# Terpsikhore Kyton

**description**: The terpsikhore are the voiceless horde of the Choir, grown from raw meat en masse. In ones and twos, they present little threat to skilled adventurers; as the chorus swells, the terpsikhore find their voices and become an increasingly dangerous threat. A terpsikhore stands about 5 feet tall and weighs roughly 150 pounds. Splintered Soul. Each terpsikhore is gifted with only one-twentieth of a soul—kytons use no more than necessary in each of their creations. While this partial soul keeps terpsikhore from developing the regenerative flesh and terrifying powers of their greater brethren, it also keeps them docile and obedient. In addition, the void of their souls calls to other empty vessels. By harnessing the resonance between their sundered souls, the terpsikhore can call forth horrors and torments that make other kyton writhe with jealous ecstasy. Harmony of Agony Effects Table Number of Contributing Terpsikhore Effect 2 A wailing cry of liberation blasts a small area with the thunder of a falling piston. This acts as thunderwave, using one contributing kyton as the point of origin for the effect. Terpsikhore are immune to the effects of this thunderwave spell. 3 The terpsikhore release a wailing shriek of straining metal. Select one of the contributing kytons as a point of origin. Each terpsikhore kyton within 100 ft. of the origin creature gains a +3 bonus to weapon damage rolls. This effect lasts for 1 minute. 4 The terpsikhore invoke the implacable function of the Machine with a chittering cry, drawing upon its perfect designs to rebuild the bodies of their kyton kin. Select one of the contributing kytons as a point of origin. All kytons within 30 ft. of that kyton are affected by a 1st level cure wounds. 5 The terpsikhore let out a sudden and startling scream. Select one of the contributing kytons as a point of origin. All enemies within 30 ft. of that creature must succeed at a Constitution save or be stunned for 1 round by sudden, stabbing pain. 6 The terpsikhores’ chant tears at weak flesh, peeling skin from muscle. Select one of the contributing kytons as a point of origin. All non-kyton creatures within 30 ft. of that kyton take 10 (3d6) points of slashing and necrotic damage and suffer 2 (1d4) points of necrotic damage at the beginning of its turn each round as the wounds continue to bleed. A target can make a DC 14 Constitution save on its turn each round to stop the bleeding. Magical healing or a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Medicine) check will also stop the additional necrotic damage. A successful Constitution save halves this damage and negates the additional necrotic damage. 7 The terpsikhore let forth a storm of echoing screams. Select one of the contributing kytons as a point of origin. Non-kytons within 30 ft. of that terpsikhore must succeed at a successful DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 7 rounds. 8 The kytons howl in an echoing chorus of agony, filling enemies with despair. Select one of the contributing kytons as a point of origin. Enemies within 30 ft. of that kyton must succeed at a DC 15 Will save or be affected as if by crushing despair. 9 The forceful chanting of the terpsikhore forms a powerful barrier. This acts as wall of force, except that the effect only lasts as long as the contributing terpsikhore each spend an action each round to maintain it. 10 The terpsikhore focus their voices into one of their own, who howls with the cacophonous sound of a chanting choir. This 30-foot cone of sound does 3 (1d6) thunder damage for every terpsikhore in the choir and deafens all creatures within the area of effect for 2d6 rounds. Use one contributing terpsikhore as the point of origin. A successful DC 15 Constitution save halves the damage and negates the deafness. 12 The kytons’ voices pass from one of their kind to the next, building up to a crescendo powerful enough to crush a single creature under the weight of the Machine. Select one terpsikhore as the point of origin. A single target is hit with 3 (1d6) thunder damage per terpsikhore in the choir, knocked prone, and stunned for 1 round. A successful DC 16 Constitution save halves the damage and negates the stunning effect. 14 The terpsikhores’ complex, multilayered chant holds their victim utterly frozen with horror. This acts as hold monster using one contributing kyton as the point of origin for the effect. 16 The kytons’ hymn demands blood sacrifice to oil the gears of the Machine. This acts as crown of madness on all creatures in a 20-foot radius, up to 120 feet away from one contributing terpsikhore, except that creatures under its effect attack the nearest creature as their action. Creatures with the devil subtype are immune to this effect. 18 The kytons’ voices expose a single creature to the true glory and horror of the Machine, destroying their victim’s mind. The target must be within 60 feet of one contributing terpsikhore. This otherwise acts as symbol of insanity. 20 The terpsikhore chant the ultimate paean to the Machine. Select one of the contributing kytons as a point of origin. All creatures within 30 ft. of that terpsikhore are affected as by divine word, except that if this effect would kill a creature, it instead suffers from indefinite madness. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.AetheraBodyTextIndented, li.AetheraBodyTextIndented, div.AetheraBodyTextIndented {mso-style-name:"Aethera Body Text Indented"; mso-style-update:auto; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; margin:0cm; text-indent:9.0pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:none; mso-layout-grid-align:none; text-autospace:none; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; color:black; mso-ansi-language:EN-US; mso-fareast-language:EN-US;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fiend (devil)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

