# The Harpy

**description**: These Hell monsters are large birds with the heads of women. Their eerily beautiful faces are smeared with blood, their bodies are covered with coarse gray-brown feathers and their feet have long wicked talons. Their size and form are comparable to vultures, and there are hundreds of them. In Greek mythology, the harpies are said to be the daughters of a titan and an oceanide, but we find it more appropriate to make them the offspring of the three furies and the foul vultures that feed on the dead of the battlefield. The harpies speak only the Infernal language since they were bred in Hell and seldom venture into the outside world. If addressed directly they will answer in pleasant voices, laughing and smiling in an unsettling manner. When feeding on the trees, they will make loathsome sucking noises. Lucifer’s hair is woven into their own soft tresses. Most of the harpies will be sitting in their nests, humming or singing strange tunes or chattering with each other in their lovely voices. Once in a while, a harpy can be seen sitting on a tree, pulling off its bark and sucking the blood out of it. Hopefully none of the characters will look up, or worse, let their gaze linger on any feeding harpy. Keeping their eyes down would be the safest way for them to pass through this region. But the problem is to avoid looking at them. As soon as a harpy starts singing or humming, anyone in hearing distance will feel compelled to get near to her, attracted by this monstrous creature, who just wants to suck their blood like their mothers, the furies. But contrary to the self-restrained furies, the harpies will drink you dry and leave you to die. A Wisdom saving throw is needed to avoid their charming song. Stuffing their ears with wax or another substance will work, but then the adventurers might not notice someone sneaking up on them. Good thing: The harpies are sort of oblivious and lost to the world, as long as they are not attacked or stared at. But as they have perfect hearing and sight, they will instantaneously notice when they are watched, crying out loudly to attract their sisters and attacking the intruder in a huge flock, even if that person is not entranced by their song. One single harpy might not be very dangerous, but a flock of them will be a nasty menace to any group of adventurers. You can use as many of them as you wish, but if you are dealing with a group of non-fighters, why not let them get through the wood unharmed? They just have to exhibit a bit of self-control. Actions Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (2d4 + 1) slashing damage. Charming Song. Harpies can sing entrancing melodies. Anyone in a 300-foot radius must succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the song ends. The target will move to the harpy while ignoring anything and anyone else. The harpy will then begin to suck the target’s blood (2 hit points per turn) until the target is completely drained. The target can be pulled out of its trance by slapping it in the face (which will make the harpy attack the offender) or hurting it with at least 4 points of damage (which doesn’t disturb the harpy’s bloodsucking at all, but the target will be quite alarmed to find a blood-sucking harpy clutching its shoulder, make a DC 10 Dismay check).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Expansion: 30058
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

