# The King of the Hunt

**description**: There are no gods... The only man in the sky... is me. Traits Fey Ancestry. The King has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put the King to sleep. Great Cleave (3/Day). When the King makes a melee weapon attack, it can make another attack with the same weapon against each other creature within reach and within 5 feet of the original target as part of the same action. Leap Attack. Once per turn, if the King moves at least 15 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a greatsword attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 6 (1d12) slashing damage. Legendary Resistance (5/Day). If the King fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The King has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Reactive. The King can take one reaction on every turn in combat. Special Equipment . The King has an Unbound Épée Solaire . The king can’t be disarmed of it while it is conscious. The bonus to attack and damage rolls is already included in the stat block. Undying Warrior. Having 0 hit points doesn’t knock the King unconscious. He must still make death saving throws, and suffers the normal effects of taking damage while at 0 hit points. Unstoppable. The King's speed can’t be reduced, but effects like being paralyzed can still prevent it from moving. Actions Multiattack. The King makes three greatsword attacks, or four shortswords attacks if the Unbound Épée Solaire is transformed. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 32 (6d6 + 11) slashing damage and 4 (1d8) radiant damage. If the King damages a creature twice on a turn with this attack, the target must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the King for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d6 + 11) slashing damage and 4 (1d8) radiant damage. Bonus actions Hunter's Pursuit. The King flies up to 70 feet toward a creature it can see without provoking opportunity attacks. Misty Step. The King casts misty step . Charisma is its spellcasting ability for the spell. Vicious Finisher (2/Day). Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 138 (20d12 + 8) slashing damage. This attack scores a critical hit on a result of 15-20 on the die. The King can use this bonus action twice, once each when the King has fewer than half, and one-quarter its hit points. Reactions Dodge Step. When a creature the King can see attacks it, the King can move 5 feet without provoking opportunity attacks and make a Dexterity saving throw with a DC equal to the attack roll’s total. On a success, the King evades completely and the attack misses. On a failure, the King takes half the attack's damage if it hits it. Killing Blow. If the King sees a creature within its reach fall to 0 hit points, it can make an attack with its weapon against the creature. On a hit, the King pierces a vital organ and the target immediately dies. Weapon Parry. The King adds 8 to its AC against one attack that would hit it. To do so, the King must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. If the attack is a ranged attack, the King can beckon gravity and force the attacker to make a DC 26 Strength saving throw, pulling it up to 60 feet straight towards the King on a failure. This reaction can’t be used two turns in a row. Legendary Actions The King can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The King regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Enforced Duel. The King magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Before teleporting, it can force a creature that it can see within 120 feet of it to make a DC 26 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the target is teleported to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the King’s destination. Strike. The King makes a greatsword attack or two shortsword attacks, depending on which form its weapon is in. Mark of the Hunt (Costs 2 Actions). The King marks its prey for death. Each creature of its choice in a 300 feet of it that it can see must succeed on a DC 26 Charisma saving throw or be branded for 1 minute. The King gain a +7 bonus to damage rolls against branded targets. Any attack roll the King makes against a branded target is a critical hit on a roll of 18-20 on the d20. If a branded target dies, the King regains 30 hit points. The brand can be removed via a remove curse spell or similar effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: humanoid and aberration
- Alignment: neutral good or neutral evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 28

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

