# The Great King Kurson

**description**: The kurson is a formidable-looking devil that bears the lower body a monstrous cave bear and the head of a fearsome-looking maned lion. Bull horns extend from its forehead while its menacing eyes glow fiery red. Notably, where its left arm should be, a giant viper extends from its socket, serving as a deadly appendage. Deadly Warrior. The kurson relies primarily on its immense strength in combat, using powerful claws and its highly venomous snake. When facing hordes of enemies or requiring a tactical advantage, the kurson uses its war horn. Unleashing a thundering blast, the war horn can deafen and stun enemies, disrupting their formations while also rallying the kurson's own troops. Hell's General. Due to the kurson's domineering character, it is often serves as a commander of Hell's legions. Those that excel and prove themselves worthy eventually become generals, only answering to pit fiends and archdevils. One such kurson, the first of its name, has been awarded the title of Great King by Asmodeus, and now serves as one of his generals. Kurson the Great King's Lair Kurson the Great King lives in an immense fortified keep in Hell that is very well defended by lesser-ranking devils. Kurson the Great King encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 19 (22,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Kurson can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; Kurson can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Kurson casts dominate person , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20). Kurson casts wall of fire , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20). Kurson doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. The wall lasts for 1 minute, until Kurson uses this lair action again, until Kurson dies or is incapacitated, or until Kurson dismisses it as an action. Kurson summons 1 barbed devil or 2 bearded devils . A summoned devil appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of Kurson and acts as an ally of Kurson. It remains for an hour, until it or Kurson dies, or until Kurson dismisses it as an action. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Kurson fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Kurson has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Prescience. Kurson can't be surprised and has advantage on saving throws, unless Kurson is incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. Kurson makes three Claw attacks and one Bite attack. Alternatively, he can make two Infernal Bolt attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 17 (5d6) poison damage and the target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is paralyzed. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Infernal Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) fire damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until the end of Kurson's next turn. War Horn (Recharge 5–6). Kurson blows his horn, emitting a thunderous blast in a 60-foot cone that is audible 600 feet away. Each creature in the cone must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 45 (10d8) thunder damage, is deafened for 1 minute, and stunned until the end of Kurson's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened or stunned. In addition, each allied devil within 60 feet of Kurson and can hear Kurson has advantage to saving throws made against being charmed and frightened for 1 minute. Bonus Actions Prognosticate. Until the end of his next turn, Kurson has advantage to his next attack roll or ability check. Reactions Premonition. Kurson foresees an incoming attack. When an attacker Kurson can see makes an attack roll against Kurson, Kurson can impose disadvantage on the attack roll. If the attack roll is successful, Kurson only takes half as much damage. Legendary Actions Kurson can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Kurson regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Attack. Kurson makes a Claw attack or Infernal Bolt attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). Kurson magically teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space he can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

