# The Gardener

**description**: The Gardener is an archfey who adores the splendor of nature, the joy of song, and the glow of shared merriment. This ancient being once wandered the Feywild and worlds of the Material Plane until two dear friends created a wondrous garden and asked the Gardener to tend to it. The Gardener agreed to the request, then pulled the garden from the Material Plane and transformed it into a Domain of Delight—a region of the Feywild that bows to an archfey’s will. This place became known as the Eternal Garden. The Gardener abhors bloodshed and avoids killing even those who threaten the garden, preferring to entangle them in vines and pacify them with tranquilizing breaths of flowery mist. The Gardener’s Lair The Gardener’s lair is the entirety of the Eternal Garden. Regional effects for the garden are provided in “Beyond the Crystal Cave” (see chapter 4). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Gardener can take one of the following lair actions; they can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row: Plant Walk. The Gardener moves up to their speed into the space of a Medium or larger plant within the lair, then teleports to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of any other Medium or larger plant within the lair. Vine Wall. A wall of grasping vines appears on the ground within 120 feet of the Gardener. The wall is up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick, and it blocks line of sight. When the wall appears, each creature in its area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or have the grappled condition (escape DC 15). A creature must make this saving throw when it starts its turn inside the wall or when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn. The wall’s area is difficult terrain for a creature that isn’t grappled. The wall sinks back into the ground, freeing all creatures grappled by it, when the Gardener uses this lair action again or when the Gardener dies. Traits Fey Rebirth. If the Gardener dies in the Eternal Garden, they revive with all their hit points 1d4 days later in a safe location within the garden. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the Gardener fails a saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead. Unfettered Steps. The Gardener is unaffected by difficult terrain. Actions Multiattack. The Gardener makes two Vine attacks and can use Breath of Tranquility if available. Vine. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) psychic damage, and if the target is a Large or smaller creature, the vine wraps around the target, and the target has the grappled condition (escape DC 17). The vine vanishes when the target is no longer grappled, or when the Gardener wills it to (no action required). A creature reduced to 0 hit points by the vine has the unconscious condition but is stable instead of dying. Breath of Tranquility (Recharge 5–6). The Gardener exhales soporific vapor in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or have the poisoned condition. A poisoned creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a failed save, it has the unconscious condition, and on a successful save, the effect ends on it. An unconscious creature is no longer poisoned and remains unconscious for 1 hour, until it takes damage, or until a creature uses an action to shake it awake. Spellcasting. The Gardener casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: Druidcraft, Speak with Animals, Speak with Plants 2/day each: Awaken (as an action), Goodberry, Plant Growth (as an action only) 1/day each: Heroes’ Feast (as an action), Teleport Reactions The Gardener can take up to three reactions per round but only one per turn. Pacification. When a creature within 120 feet of the Gardener damages the Gardener, that creature takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage, and the Gardener teleports, along with anything they are wearing or carrying, to an unoccupied space they can see within 15 feet. A creature reduced to 0 hit points by the psychic damage has the unconscious condition and is stable instead of dying. Spell Refuge. When the Gardener or a creature within 30 feet of the Gardener takes damage from a spell, the Gardener chooses up to 5 creatures within 30 feet of themself. The Gardener and the chosen creatures have resistance to all damage from the triggering spell

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey (Archfey, Druid)
- Alignment: Neutral Good
- Expansion: 31434
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Quests from the Infinite Staircase

