# The Flesh

**description**: The yellow-eyed dog barks at the end of the alley. Suddenly its flesh expands, revealing a giant maw in its chest and taloned limbs where its legs once stood. The flesh is a formless parasite which begins life as a bizarre lump of pulsating tissue. This mass infests the body of a slain creature, animating the host and mimicking its mannerisms. The only evidence a creature has been inhabited by the flesh is the strange, yellow gleam in the host's eyes. When it is ready to strike new prey, the flesh warps and reshapes its host into a living weapon. An Impostor Among Us. When it inhabits a host, the flesh retains only the creature's basic memories, which helps it blend in with its surroundings while seeking its next victim. It infiltrates the host's social circles, picking off each member one by one until it has consumed them all. Evolving Threat. When the flesh attacks, it reveals its true form in a grotesque display of warped physiology, the host's body becoming a twisted mockery of its former form. However, once it has revealed its true form, the flesh must kill and infect another victim to adopt a new disguise. Amphibious. The flesh can breathe air and water. Amorphous (True Form Only). The flesh can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Mimicry (Assumed Form Only). The flesh can mimic the sounds and voice of its assumed form. A creature that hears these sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check. Regeneration. The flesh regains 5 hp at the start of its turn. If the flesh takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the flesh's next turn. The flesh dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hp and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The flesh makes two Slam attacks or two Manipulate Flesh attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Manipulate Flesh. The flesh can choose one of the following attack options: Manifold Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d4 + 4) piercing damage, and the target can't regain hit points until the start of the flesh's next turn. Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The flesh can have up to two tentacles, each of which can grapple only one target. Acidic Mucus. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (4d6) acid damage, and the target takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of its next turn unless the target immediately uses its reaction to wipe off the mucus. Bonus Actions Assume Form. The flesh consumes the corpse of a Medium or smaller Humanoid or Beast within 5 feet of it and transforms into that creature. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in the new form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying melds into the new form. It can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment. It reverts to its true, aberrant form if it dies, makes a Manipulate Flesh attack, or uses Assume Form while transformed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Ne utral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

