# The Strangler

**description**: The strangler is a fae monster in the service of the Mountain Queen. It has luminous red eyes, shaggy black fur like iron wire, long grasping arms of terrifying strength and black claws able to shred rock – you don’t want to face this thing if you have wronged the queen. He is undyingly loyal to the queen and will sometimes be deputised by the Contenotte, when the latter is on a mission in Italy. The Strangler is able to force his way into and through the rock of the mountains, digging at great speed, and, if need be, emerging almost on top of his terrified victim. He possesses the strength of the Earth and is able to rend most opponents limb from limb – he is a nightmare made flesh. The Strangler will only appear if either the Contenotte or the queen are attacked by the PCs. In this hopefully unlikely case, the characters would not stand much of a chance and certainly be decimated. Traits Regeneration. The Strangler regains 10 hit points at the start of his turn. If the Strangler takes damage from a magical metal weapon, this trait doesn't function at the start of his next turn. The Strangler dies only if he starts his turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Magic Resistance. The Strangler has advantage on Saving Throws against spells Rock Burrowing. The Strangler can burrow through firm earth and also through rock From Beneath You. The Strangler can emerge underneath a target to then immediately perform a Pounce attack at advantage to pull the victim under into its tunnel. Actions Multiattack. The Strangler makes 3 melee attacks – either 3 Claw Swipes or 2 Claw Swipes and 1 Pounce attack. Claw Swipe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage. Pounce. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled. Unless the target escapes the grapple (Escape DC 16), the Strangler can then use a Strangle, Toss or Maul action against the grappled target on the next round (instead of multiattack). As long as t his grapple last, the Strangler can’t attack other targets. Strangle. A target currently grappled by the Strangler takes 10 (1d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage from stangling. Until this grapple ends, the target can’t breathe. Toss. One Medium or smaller creature grappled by the Strangler is thrown up to 30 feet in a random dire ction and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes a solid surface, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 16 De xterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone. The Toss ends the grapple. The Strangler often uses this action as an intimidation tactic. Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target grappled by the Strangler. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) slashing damage from a frenzied mauling by tooth and claw. The Strangler has advantage on this attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fae
- Expansion: 30058
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

