# The Grim

**description**: The embodiment of hopelessness and despair, the grim is among the mightiest of the sorrowsworn that can be found in the Shadowfell. It resembles an 8-foot tall, slender humanoid creature with pale emaciated skin, thin horns protruding from its head, bulging red eyes, large leathery wings on its back, and hands with long clawed fingers clutching a scythe made out of bones and dark steel. Lord of Despair. The grim radiates an aura of bleakness, forcing creatures nearby to be overwhelmed with feelings of despair. In addition, the grim can whisper and hiss constantly. Creatures unfortunate enough to be within range will hear it, even in their minds. The grim can then choose to fill their thoughts either of extreme sorrow, deep emptiness, or memories of past losses and regret. Reaping Scythe. Those that do survive the harrowing abilities of the grim will still have to contend with its deadly scythe that it attacks with thrice each turn, and with each hit can inflict grievous wounds that can't be healed normally. Traits Aura of Loss. A creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of the Grim must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature has disadvantage on saving throws and grant the Grim advantage on attack rolls against it until the start of the Grim's next turn. Actions Multiattack. The Grim makes three Reaping Scythe attacks. It can use Bleak Visage in place of one of these attacks. Reaping Scythe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) slashing damage plus 22 (4d10) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. Bleak Visage. The Grim fixes its gaze on one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on DC 16 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or take 22 (4d10) psychic damage and be frightened for 1 minute. While frightened, the creature is incapacitated. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the Grim's Bleak Visage for the next 24 hours. Bonus Actions Whispers of Loss. The Grim whispers and hisses constantly, which can be heard loudly in the minds of creatures within 60 feet of it that can understand it. It can choose one from the following three effects: 1. Future Sorrow. The Grim fills creatures' thoughts of images of loved ones dying horrible deaths. Each creature within range must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or take 16 (3d10) psychic damage and drop whatever it is holding, and become frightened until the end of the Grim's next turn. While frightened in this way, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from the Grim by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn't take the Dash action. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. 2. Great Emptiness. The Grim makes creatures reflect on their most terrible actions that have wracked them with guilt. Each creature within range must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw or be take 22 (4d10) psychic damage and be confused until the end of its next turn. The creature can't take reactions until the start of its next turn and rolls a d10 to determine what it does during that turn. On a 1 to 4, the creature does nothing. On a 5 to 7, the creature takes no action but uses all its movement to move in a random direction. On an 8 to 10, the creature makes one melee attack against a random creature, or it does nothing if no creature is within reach. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. 3. Past Losses. The Grim makes creatures recall painful, tragic events and lost love ones that have haunted them. Each creature within range must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or take 11 (2d10) psychic damage and become stunned until the end of the Grim's next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

