# The Dark Wolf

**description**: “AAAAAAAAAA…!” The Dark Wolf is the scourge of Tolia’s wilderness. She is probably the most feared barbarian in all of Tolia. Both in Kanrath and Cyherested, parents tell tales of her to their kids, saying that the Dark Wolf will come for them if they don’t behave. Travelers from both in and out of Tolia watch for her, even in their sleep, so as not to catch her eye in any sort of way. She is a barbarian, a living legend, a life-stealer, a blooddrinker, a spell eater, a nightmare in the flesh. She is: the Dark Wolf. The Dark Wolf’s Story The Dark Wolf’s past is a bit complicated. Her name, her original name, was Marila. She was the daughter of two Kanrath commoners; an angst refinery worker and a junk collector. Until the age of 13, she lived a poor life full of disease, hunger, and hardships in the ghettos of Kanrath, until one day, she displayed extraordinary magical talent as she remained unaffected by the blessing of a blood priest. The news spread quickly and she caught the eye of many vampires in the city. Soon after, the emissaries of a noble vampire family visited Marila’s home. They killed Marila’s parents and took her with them. From that day forward, she was known as Augusta Dorothea Carlesti. Many magical experiments were conducted on Augusta, and her body and soul were studied in detail. All this was extremely painful for Augusta, but she didn’t cry. Innocence and childhood had left her quickly, and she was consumed with the need for revenge for what the vampires did to her and to her family. After it was understood that she was immune to the magical powers of spellcasters, her new “family” started to train her to become the perfect mage-hunter. She learnt everything they taught her to the very last detail, including the faces of the vampire nobles and those who experimented on her. 20 years later, she was a killing machine. She was a murderer with no remorse. She was the nightmare of spellcasters, the “Spell-Eater”. Although she wanted to butcher all vampires, she knew that this was impossible with her current power, and the fact that she was a member of her “family” was limiting her training. So, she ran away, into the wilderness. She did the impossible and survived out there. She became more and more powerful with each passing day. She talked to no one and eventually forgot everything she had deemed useful in civilization, even her name, though her purpose and her rage remained intact. She killed anyone that crossed her path, sparing children. She neither washed off the blood on her skin, nor on her axes. She ate raw flesh and drank the blood of her victims. She became the Dark Wolf. The Dark Wolf’s Goals She wants to destroy Kanrath, the vampires in it, and all who support them. Roleplaying the Dark Wolf In her heart, the Dark Wolf tries to protect children and destroy vampires. However, she identifies anyone near a child as someone trying to do them harm. When she hears the word “Marila”, her rage is soothed for a couple of minutes before she goes mad again. She can only talk in those times where she has calmed down. When she hears the words “Augusta”, “Dorothea”, or “Carlesti”, she tries to kill the one who uttered the words. The Dark Wolf in Combat She attacks until she is the last one standing.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (dwarf)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

