# The Forgotten Prince

**description**: Once there was a prince of a grand kingdom, the youngest of eight sons. His brothers were celebrated as heroes of the realm, but whatever the youngest prince did, his deeds were never noticed; the shadows cast by his brothers were too long. Even when he saved the kingdom from a cruel dragon, the people assumed one of his brothers had done the deed. But in that dragon’s lair, the prince discovered a strange sack. Reaching inside it, he found a toy he’d loved as a child and long forgotten about, a comb lost by his sister, and a map of a nation that no longer exists. Curious, he climbed into the sack and found a castle within it, filled with forgotten wonders. No one ever noticed he was gone, and no one remembers his name or his deeds. But the Forgotten Prince still dwells in his Castle of Lost Things. When you forget something you love, or when something you need is nowhere to be found, it’s because the Forgotten Prince has taken it for his hoard. When a sock goes missing or a tool is misplaced, people curse the Forgotten Prince for stealing it away. When someone forgets what they were about to say, they might remark “The Prince has taken my thought.” Needless to say, his reach is not truly as wide as such stories make out; but the Forgotten Prince and his minions do indeed steal unappreciated things, both material items and even ideas themselves, keeping them in the vaults and library of his Castle of Lost Things. Often such thefts are never noticed, but he might take things that are quite valuable if he believes them to be unloved or unappreciated by those who have them. Sometimes this is done to teach a lesson, how the loss of a simple and undervalued item or idea can have disastrous consequences. Battles have been lost and cities fallen because of the Prince’s thefts—though often people fail to appreciate the lesson, as they never recall what was lost to begin with. The Prince of All Things Forgotten and Unloved. The Forgotten Prince dwells in the Castle of Lost Things in Thelanis. His attendants are sly and cunning fey, along with mortals who were unappreciated in their mundane lives. Some say that the kenku are servants of the Forgotten Prince who fled from his service—that he stole their voices as punishment for their betrayal, but that a kenku can earn it back with clever deeds. True or not, the Prince has followers scattered across Khorvaire—thieves who sacrifice unloved objects and undervalued secrets to the Prince in exchange for his guidance and gifts. Followers of the Forgotten Prince rarely work together, but they can be found in many positions of influence. There are elves in the Shadow Houses who receive visions from the Prince when they trance, and changelings among the Tyrants of Sharn who engage in more subtle thefts on behalf of the Prince, stealing hearts or faces. While his thefts often go unnoticed by the greater world, the Forgotten Prince also takes pleasure in seeing celebrated people whose reputations are undeserved brought low, and his agents may act to expose such poseurs. Adventurers could also be forced to deal with the Prince if he has something they need—perhaps an artifact or secret long forgotten, now sealed away in the vaults of his dark castle. The Prince as Ally or Patron. The Forgotten Prince may reach out to people who have themselves been forgotten or unappreciated, provided he sees potential in them. Sometimes he brings them to the Castle of Lost Things; in other cases, he offers these agents purpose, rewarding them for their service with gifts or secrets. The urchin background is an excellent option for someone forgotten by the world but chosen by the Prince, while the hermit background could reflect someone who spent much of their life in the Castle of Lost Things, with the Discovery feature being tied to a long-forgotten secret or artifact they discovered in the Castle. The Forgotten Prince could be an Archfey patron for a warlock, or a Hexblade warlock could also receive their weapon as a gift from the Prince; what is the forgotten history and destiny of this weapon? The Forgotten Prince can also be an interesting patron for a bard of the College of Lore; the Prince values secrets no one else considers valuable, and the Cutting Words feature can be depicted as stealing opportunity from a foe—a trick taught by the Forgotten Prince. The Forgotten Prince could teach a rogue the talents of an Arcane Trickster or the skills of a Thief, provided they are willing to use those skills on his behalf. Missions issued by the Prince typically involve the theft of an object or a secret. These things may not be seen as valuable by the people that possess them, and such a task could easily be added on top of the mission for an existing adventure—“While you’re in Dreadhold, steal the ring under the warden’s bed.” The Prince could teach his agents a ten-minute ritual which allows him to pull the requested item into Thelanis (this only works with objects the Prince wants, so it’s not a way to dispose of just any item). The Prince may also task agents with actions to expose or bring down people whose reputations are undeserved, or to assist those who are unappreciated. Note that good and evil don’t enter into these judgments; the Prince could call on agents to bring down someone who’s using their undeserved reputation for a good cause, or to help an unappreciated serial killer! The Prince as an Enemy. The simplest way for the Prince to enter a story is for one of his agents to steal something that the adventurers need, or to take actions that cripple an organization or patron that the characters work for. This ties to the idea that the Prince may target someone with an undeserved reputation even if they are using it to do good; the adventurers themselves could be targeted if they acquire fame that the Prince considers unearned. Or the characters might discover they need something stolen long ago by the Prince—or an object they’ve recently acquired and desperately need has gone missing, and no one else seems to remember it. Characters could also be set against the Prince by another immortal patron; perhaps the Prince has stolen one of the memories of the Forest Queen, and she wants it back. The Power of Secrets. A defining part of the Forgotten Prince’s story is that he himself has been forgotten. Should a character somehow learn the true name of the Forgotten Prince during their adventures, they gain advantage on saving throws against all of his lair actions. The Forgotten Prince’s Lair The Prince dwells in the Castle of Forgotten Things in Thelanis. The castle seems to be its own distinct layer of Thelanis; if it exists in some other realm, its location has been forgotten. There are no doors that allow exit from the castle, and all windows are sealed and show scenes of places that have been forgotten. The only way to enter or leave the castle is through magic, whether by spell, through a manifest zone, or through a portal. Such portals can take many forms, such as the sack described in the legend above; normal people forget the location of a portal within an hour of discovering it, though player characters and other remarkable people could be immune to this effect. It’s possible characters could discover that what they assumed to be a normal bag of holding can serve as a portal to the Castle of Lost Things. Lair Actions. While within his castle, the Forgotten Prince can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Forgotten Prince can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; he can’t use the same effect two rou nds in a row: Each creature that has dealt damage to the Forgotten Prince within the last round must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or take 26 (4d12) points of psychic damage from his vengeance made manifest. The Forgotten Prince can steal the very life away from his foes. One creature that the Forgotten Prince can see must make a DC 23 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 27 (6d8) points of necrotic damage, and the Forgotten Prince regains hit points equal to the amount of necrotic damage dealt. The Forgotten Prince uses his Stolen Gifts trait on a creature he can see anywhere within his lair, regardless of distance. The duration of the effect lasts until initiative count 20 on the round after next. Fey Rulers The fey emanate from Thelanis. The least among them embody the magic we wish to see in the world—the idea of spirits in the trees and wind, of mischievous sprites and satyrs dancing in the glades. The greatest are the archfey, immortals of story who rule domains within Thelanis. This section presents two such rulers: the Forest Queen and the Forgotten Prince. Traits Cloaked by Shadows. The Prince adds half of his Charisma modifier as a bonus to his AC. Fey Step. As a bonus action, the Prince can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Innate Spellcasting. The Prince’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 23, +15 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: chill touch (17th level), hex (as a 5th-level spell), mage hand, nondetection, pass without trace 3/day each: glibness, greater invisibility 1/day each: mass suggestion, modify memory Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the Prince fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The Prince has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The Prince’s weapon attacks are magical. Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the Prince can take the Hide action as a bonus action. Stolen Gifts. The Prince steals away others’ gifts with hands as swift as darkness. As a bonus action, the Prince causes one creature he can see within 60 feet of him to make a DC 25 Wisdom (Perception) check. On a failed ability check, the Forgotten Prince steals one of the following from the target until the start of his next turn: 1. Weapon Skill. For the duration, the target has disadvantage on weapon attacks, and the Prince has advantage on Dark Scythe attacks. 2. Spellcasting Ability. For the duration, the target has disadvantage on spell attack rolls, and all creatures have advantage on saving throws made to resist the target’s spells. Additionally, all creatures have disadvantage on saving throws to resist the Prince’s spells. 3. Speed. The target’s walking speed is reduced by 20 feet (minimum of 5 feet). Additionally, the Prince’s walking speed is increased by 20 feet, and he can Disengage as a bonus action. Thelanian Protagonist. The Prince can’t be permanently killed. If reduced to 0 hit points, he implodes in a burst of shadows, dealing 36 (8d8) points of necrotic damage to any creature within 15 feet of him. 1d4 days later, he reforms in the Castle of Forgotten Things, regaining all his hit points. Actions Multiattack. The Prince makes two Dark Scythe attacks. Dark Scythe. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) slashing damage and 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. Threads of Memory (Recharge 5-6). The Prince steals the memories of nearby foes, hampering their abilities. The Prince causes up to three creatures within 60 feet of him to make a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 28 (8d6) points of psychic damage and has its memories stolen for 1 minute. During that time, whenever the target makes an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, it must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. The target can make a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Actions The Prince can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The Forgotten Prince regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Dark Scythe. The Prince makes one Dark Scythe attack. Fey Step. The Prince uses his Fey Step. Marked for Vengeance. The Prince casts hex as a 5th-level spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 20973
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Exploring Eberron

