# The Queen-in-Stitches

**description**: The Queen-in-Stitches is a self-made sorceress who incorporates monster parts and weapons into her body to augment and adjust her magical abilities. She has a cult following of would-be mages and traditionally weaker monsters who seek to learn her secrets. She grants these secrets sparingly, using her followers to seek out new creatures and magical items to graft into her form. Appearance. The Queen-in-Stitches’ appearance differs from day to day, depending on which limbs and “accessories” she last chose to incorporate into her body. However, no matter what choices she’s made, her form is an unnerving blend of humanoid, monster, and metal. Personality. The Queen-in-Stitches views her cult of followers as both children and mere servants, caring for them yet also demanding much of them. Those that bring harm to her cultists face her wrath, though she rarely has qualms about sending them into Dangerous II situations to acquire new monster parts and magical items. Cult of Monsters. Many of the Queen-in-Stitches’ cult following are monstrous themselves, primarily those traditionally viewed as weaker, such as goblins and kobolds. These monsters see her as a saint who will help them grow in strength through the grafts and augmentations she provides. Spare Parts. The Queen-in-Stitches’ experiments with grafting and implanted augmentations have created stores of spare parts for her to choose from. Beyond simply having an arsenal of grafts at her disposal, however, she also spends her time stitching together flesh golems, which help defend her and her cultists as needed. Plot Hooks The Deadliest Catch. The Queen-in-Stitches is hunting for a particularly Dangerous ] creature, and seeks an adventuring party to aid her where her cultists can be of little use. She is willing to grant them a boon in the form of a special graft or a magical item from her vaults as payment. Protected Prey. The Queen-in-Stitches has a rare and endangered prey in her sights, and a druid circle that oversees the species’ population is in need of help protecting it from her cultists. Harming her cultists draws the attention of the Queen-in- Stitches herself, and the party must either fight her off or convince her to abandon her hunt. Monsters in the Night. The Queen-in-Stitches has been experimenting with grafts on monsters, creating odd, chimeric creatures and releasing them in the streets of the city at night. This has led to several deaths already, and the city guard needs assistance in finding the cause. Tactics The Queen-in-Stitches does her best to be prepared for any fight, using her knowledge of her opponents to select the proper traits from her Commutable Grafts whenever possible. Although technically a spellcaster, her magical talents are limited to those she has acquired from her grafts, and she does her best to keep out of harm’s way to ensure that her most vital of grafts (such as her Horns of the Psionic Dragon) are not Injured. She also knows that she will be outmatched if allowed to be outnumbered, and keeps herself surrounded by at least a few cultists at all times. Whenever possible, she likes to combine her ability to cast darkness on an object she holds with her Eye of the Devil, hiding herself from sight and making herself a deadly threat in melee combat. When she doesn’t need to specifically prepare for a fight, she typically selects the Eye of the Devil, Iron Guts, and Magitech Core traits for her Commutable Grafts. Other Commutable Grafts The options outlined in the Queen-in-Stitches’ Commutable Grafts trait are just a few possibilities, selected in part for their relatively minimal effect on her challenge rating. Other options could include a Troll’s regeneration, an angel’s halo, which could grant her bonus radiant damage on her attacks, or any other key trait of a creature type. Similarly, you could change out any of her melee attacks for attacks from other creatures, any of her spells for other effects that can be generated by magical creatures, and so on. Just be sure to keep an eye on her challenge rating! Traits Commutable Grafts. The Queen-in-Stitches can benefit from any three of the following traits at a time, and can switch her choices during a short rest: Spider Climb. The Queen-in-Stitches can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving her hands free. She also gains a climbing speed equal to her walking speed. Eye of the Devil. The Queen-in-Stitches gains darkvision out to 120 ft., and can see through magical darkness. Aberrant Flesh. The Queen-in-Stitches has immunity to effects that would change her shape and immunity to the sickened condition. Iron Guts. The Queen-in-Stitches has immunity to poison damage and the poisoned condition. Scales of the Dragon. The Queen-in-Stitches has immunity to an element of her choice: acid, cold, fire, or lightning. Magitech Core (3/Rest). The Queen-in- Stitches gains advantage on a single saving throw against a spell or other magical effect. Reinforced Blood Vessels. The Queen-in-Stitches’ Injury threshold for effects that cause bleeding are increased by 5, and she has advantage on saving throws against such effects. Horns of the Psionic Dragon. The DC to counter or dispel spells cast by the Queen-in-Stitches is increased by 5, and a check is always required regardless of the spell’s level. Additionally, the Queen-in-Stitches can telekinetically interact with objects of up to 500 pounds at a range of 100 ft.. This trait along with the Queen-in-Stitches’ flight speed can be removed with a special Injury of Handicap III severity. Her flight speed can’t otherwise be Injured (i.e. through the Special Mobility aspect). Spellcasting. The Queen-in-Stitches is an 11th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). Her spellcasting abilities can be temporarily removed (until she finishes a long rest) using a special Injury of Deadly IIII severity that damages the grafted-on source of her spellcasting. Actions Multiattack. The Queen-in-Stitches makes four melee attacks, two with her Scraping Claw, and two with her Mantis Blade. She can replace a Scraping Claw with a Wight’s Draining Grasp. Wight’s Draining Grasp. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (4d6+4) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a zombie under the Queen-in-Stitches’ control, unless the humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. The Queen-in-Stitches can have no more than 12 zombies under her control at one time. Scraping Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d10+4) slashing damage. The first time this attack hits a creature each turn, that creature’s Injury thresholds are reduced by 5 until the end of that turn. Mantis Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 13 (2d8+4) slashing damage. This attack scores a critical on a roll of 19 or 20, and deals an additional 7 (2d6) damage on a critical hit (in addition to any bonus damage from the critical hit). Demon’s Fiery Blast. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., up to three targets. Hit: 21 (3d10+5) fire damage. Cannibalize (2/Day). The Queen-in-Stitches casts cannibalize *. One creature she touches must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury of Handicap III severity, “Cannibalized”. While Injured in this way, the creature’s highest ability score is reduced by 2 (along with all associated bonuses, not including max hp). Additionally, the Queen-in-Stitches’ ability score is increased by 2. At the end of each of its turns, the creature can repeat the saving throw to remove the Injury, but the bonus to the Queen-in-Stitches’ ability score remains until the spell ends (duration 1 minute). Darkness (1/Rest). The Queen-in-Stitches casts darkness at a point she can see within 60 ft. of her, filling a 15-foot radius with inky blackness that spreads around corners. A creature with darkvision can’t see through this darkness, and nonmagical light can’t illuminate it. This spell lasts for 10 minutes (requires concentration). If the point she chose is on an object she is holding or on one that isn’t being worn or carried, the darkness emanates from the object and moves with it. Completely covering the source of the darkness with an opaque object, such as a bowl or a helm, blocks the darkness. If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of light created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell that created the light is dispelled. Reactions Counterspell (3/Day). The Queen-in-Stitches casts counterspell targeting one creature she can see within 60 ft. of her that is attempting to cast a spell. If the spell is of 3rd level or lower, it fails and has no effect. If the spell is of 4th level or higher, she makes a Charisma ability check (+5) against a DC of 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, the creature’s spell fails and has no effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

