# The Horned Hunter

**description**: The Horned Hunter serves as one of Nyrissa’s agents, sent to the Material Plane to track down the magic sword Briar. As a powerful satyr, though, he can certainly play the role of a legendary guardian of an ancient woodland, or even the end boss of a long-term campaign against fey. Traits Archery. The Horned Hunter gains a +2 bonus to attack rolls he makes with ranged weapons (included in the attack). Evasion. If the Horned Hunter is subjected to an effect that allows him to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the Horned Hunter instead takes no damage if he succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if he fails. Fey Conduit. Before she sent him into the Material Plane, Nyrissa used the power of her home within the Fable to forge a link with the Horned Hunter. During his time on the Material Plane, she can observe the world as if seeing through his eyes and listening through his ears. She cannot bolster the Horned Hunter via this link, and uses it primarily to spy on the PCs and observe their tactics in preparation for what she hopes never occurs—their invasion of Thousandbreaths. If the Horned Hunter claims Briar, the sword causes this link to Nyrissa to end immediately. Fey Weapons. The Horned Hunter’s weapon attacks are magical. When the Horned Hunter hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 22 (5d8) radiant damage (included in the attack). Magic Resistance. The Horned Hunter has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. The Horned Hunter is a 20th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). The Horned Hunter has the following ranger spells known: 1st level (4 slots): animal friendship, cure wounds, fog cloud, speak with animals 2nd level (3 slots): pass without trace, spike growth 3rd level (3 slots): nondetection, protection from energy 4th level (3 slots): freedom of movement 5th level (2 slots): commune with nature, tree stride Actions Multiattack. The Horned Hunter makes three attacks. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4+4) bludgeoning damage plus 22 (5d8) radiant damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) piercing damage plus 22 (5d8) radiant damage. Panpipes. The Horned Hunter plays pipes and chooses one of the following magical effects: a charming melody, a frightening strain, or a gentle lullaby. Any creature within 60 feet of The Horned Hunter that can hear the pipes must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be affected as described below. Other satyrs and creatures that can’t be charmed are unaffected. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to these panpipes for the next 24 hours. Charming Melody. The creature is charmed by The Horned Hunter for 1 minute. If The Horned Hunter or any of its companions harms the creature, the effect on it ends immediately. Frightening Strain. The creature is frightened for 1 minute. Gentle Lullaby. The creature falls asleep and is unconscious for 1 minute. The effect ends if the creature takes damage or if someone takes an action to shake the creature awake.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

