# Thessalgorgon

**description**: As its name implies, the thessalgorgon has the body and head of a gorgon, with eight serpents attached to its shoulder, circling the gorgon's head. Its tail ends with a pincer claw, which it uses to snatch smaller prey. The creature retains the behavior of a gorgon, including its ability to breathe petrifying gas. Rare Specimen. The original thessalgorgon was released by its creator and was able to mate with normal gorgons. Most of its offspring come out as normal gorgons, but once in every generation, a thessalgorgon is born from the original line. Because of its formidable abilities, a thessalgorgon is often sought after as sentries by powerful beings. Thessalmonster A thessalmonster is a rare creature born from the genetic experiments of the mad lich Thessalar, an archmage transmuter who is also rumored to have created the mimic, owlbear, and a few other amalgamated creatures. The thessalmonster is typically characterized as a hybrid creature with a large central maw surrounded by eight venomous serpents that regenerate like a hydra and a prehensile tail that ends in a powerful pincer claw. Traits Multiple Serpent Heads. The thessalgorgon has eight serpent heads. While it has more than one serpent head, the thessalgorgon has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Whenever the thessalgorgon takes 5 or more damage in a single turn, one of its serpent heads dies. At the end of its turn, it grows two serpent heads for each of its serpent heads that died since its last turn, unless it has taken fire or acid damage since its last turn. The thessalgorgon regains 5 hit points for each serpent head regrown in this way. Wakeful. While the thessalgorgon sleeps, at least one of its serpent heads is awake. Trampling Charge. If the thessalgorgon moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a gore attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the thessalgorgon can make one attack with its hooves against it as a bonus action. Actions Multiattack. The thessalgorgon makes three attacks: one with its Flurry of Serpent bites, one to Gore or with its Hooves, and one with its Tail Pincer. Flurry of Serpent Bites. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1 piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage for each serpent head it has. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) piercing damage. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Tail Pincer. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is also grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the thessalgorgon can't use its Tail Pincer attack on another target. Petrifying Breath (Recharge 5–6). The thessalgorgon exhales petrifying gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target begins to turn to stone and is restrained. The restrained target must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends on the target. On a failure, the target is petrified until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

