# Thessalmera

**description**: The thessalmera is a cross between a thessalhydra and a wingless chimera. As with most thessalmonsters, it retains its reptilian body, eight serpentine heads, and pincer-clawed tail. In place of a giant maw, serpentine heads surround a lion's head with a reddish-gold mane. Sitting on top of it is the neck and head of a red dragon, whose dark red metallic scales, crest, and spines run from its back and over the creature's spine, matching the thessalhydra's reddish-brown scales. Silent Stalker. Like all thessalmonsters, the thessalmera is a rapacious carnivore. It is a stealthy predator that uses the cover of night to hunt. It picks areas to stalk where there is little or no threat, such as small villages and hamlets, devouring the occasional humanoid as it searches for its preferred prey - livestock, especially horses and cows. Grounded But Deadly. While opponents may find the thessalmera's inability to fly easier to deal with than a chimera, it still has to contend with its venomous serpentine heads and powerful pincer-clawed tail, which more than make up for its loss of flight. Wary Predator. The thessalmera is careful to pick where it makes its lair, choosing several spots where it is confident that it can be safe when it rests, has no competition nearby, and it is within half a day's travel to easy sources of food. This would typically be caves or ruined structures deep within a forest, jungle, swamp, or similar area difficult to traverse. It never stays in the same lair for more than two or three nights unless necessary. If offered plenty of food, treasure, and the occasional live prey to toy with, the thessalmera can be coaxed to work as a guardian. Thessalmonster A thessalmonster is a rare creature born from the genetic experiments of the mad lich Thessalar, an archmage transmuter who is also rumored to have created the mimic, owlbear, and a few other amalgamated creatures. The thessalmonster is typically characterized as a hybrid creature with a large central maw surrounded by eight venomous serpents that regenerate like a hydra and a prehensile tail that ends in a powerful pincer claw. Traits Multiple Serpent Heads. The thessalmera has eight serpent heads. While it has more than one serpent head, the thessalmera has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Whenever the thessalmera takes 5 or more damage in a single turn, one of its serpent heads dies. At the end of its turn, it grows two serpent heads for each of its serpent heads that died since its last turn, unless it has taken fire or acid damage since its last turn. The thessalmera regains 5 hit points for each serpent head regrown in this way. Wakeful. While the thessalmera sleeps, at least one of its serpent heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The thessalmera makes four attacks: one with is Flurry of Serpent Bites, one with its Bite, one with its Claws, and one with its Tail Pincer. Flurry of Serpent Bites. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1 piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) poison damage for each serpent head it has. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. Tail Pincer. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the thessalmera can't use its Tail Pincer attack on another target. Fire Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon head exhales fire in a 15--foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 31 (7d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

