# Thessaltrice

**description**: The thessaltrice is the abominable result of magically combining a thessalhydra and a cockatrice. While it retains the same body as a thessalhydra, what grows in place of the serpents are eight deadly cockatrice heads. Each head and neck resemble a true cockatrice's, from the dark red wattle and comb to the reddish-gold feathers covering its neck. In place of forelegs, the thessaltrice has the cockatrice's clawed wings. Fiercely Territorial. The thessaltrice possesses the same animal intelligence of its cockatrice ancestry while inheriting the ferocity of the thessalhydra. It is a very territorial creature and will attack anything it sees as a threat, even those larger than itself. In combat, the thessaltrice will often strike with its tail pincer first to get hold of the target. Once it has its prey secured with its pincer claw, it then follows up with a flurry of its dreaded cockatrice bites. If the target somehow survives not getting petrified, the thessaltrice will finish it off by biting it with its venomous maw. Tropical Dwellers. The thessaltrice typically inhabit warm, temperate regions such as tropical swamps, jungles, savannahs, and closed-canopy forests where prey are plentiful. Petrified bodies of its victims adorn the thessaltrice's lair, each in various stages of ruin. The thessaltrice does not care much for the treasure carried by its victims, as it prefers to display their petrified bodies instead to scare away intruders. Rocky Relationships. A thessaltrice, just like a cockatrice, is usually only found sharing its territory with its kind, and rarely does it cohabitate with creatures not immune to its petrifying bite. However, adventurers have encountered ones living with Ogrémoch-worshipping cultists, stone giants, and mages who have permanently charmed them to serve as sentries. Thessaltrice eggs are highly prized by alchemists, collectors, and merchants and sell well in the black market. Thessalmonster A thessalmonster is a rare creature born from the genetic experiments of the mad lich Thessalar, an archmage transmuter who is also rumored to have created the mimic, owlbear, and a few other amalgamated creatures. The thessalmonster is typically characterized as a hybrid creature with a large central maw surrounded by eight venomous serpents that regenerate like a hydra and a prehensile tail that ends in a powerful pincer claw. Traits Multiple Heads. The thessaltrice has eight cockatrice heads. While it has more than one cockatrice head, the thessaltrice has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. Whenever the thessaltrice takes 3 or more damage in a single turn, one of its cockatrice heads dies. At the end of its turn, it grows two cockatrice heads for each of its cockatrice heads that died since its last turn, unless it has taken fire or acid damage since its last turn. The thessaltrice regains 3 hit points for each cockatrice head regrown in this way. Wakeful. While the thessaltrice sleeps, at least one of its cockatrice heads is awake. Actions Multiattack. The thessaltrice makes three attacks: one with its Flurry of Cockatrice Bites, one with its Maw, and one with its Tail Pincer. Flurry of Cockatrice Bites. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d4 +1) piercing damage for each cockatrice head it has, and the target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw against being magically petrified. On a failed save, the creature begins to turn to stone and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the creature is petrified for 24 hours. Maw. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage and if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) poison damage. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage. Tail Pincer. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is also grappled (escape DC 10). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the thessaltrice can't use its Tail Pincer tack on another target.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

