# Thiliossk

**description**: Mind Flayer Attendants The colony of Zellix’Phor consists of many mind flayers, but some of the most notable of the community have been promoted to the rank of attendant – illithids whose unique strengths make them most useful to the elder brain, and who act as its council. The attendants are described in detail in chapter one, but their game statistics are listed here. Traits Magic Resistance. Thiliossk has advantage on saving throws against spells and magical effects. Innate Spellcasting (Psionics). Thiliossk’s innate spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no components: At will: detect thoughts, levitate 1/day each: dominate monster, plane shift (self only) Virulent Host. A creature that touches Thiliossk or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or contract a disease. Until the disease is cured, the target can’t regain hit points, and the target’s hit point maximum decreases by 5 (1d10) at the start of that creature’s turns. If the target drops to 0 as a result of this disease, the target dies and is reanimated as a mutant 1d4 rounds later. Actions Gas Canister. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 27 (5d10) poison damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or suffer one of the following effects: Poison. The target is poisoned for 1 minute. It can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Madness (3/day). The target develops a short-term madness (see “Madness” in chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide . Mutate (3/day). The target is stunned until the end of the next turn. Roll a percentile dice and consult the Mutations table. Exhaust (3/day). The target gains a level of exhaustion. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target gains 2 levels of exhaustion. Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) psychic damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 15) and must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until this grapple ends. Extract Brain. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid grappled by Thiliossk. Hit: The target takes 55 (10d10) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, Thiliossk kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain. Mind Blast (Recharge 5-6). Thiliossk magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or take 22 (4d8 + 4) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Mutations Table d100 Effect 01-05 The colour of the creature’s hair, eyes, and skin become blue, purple, pink, or patterned. 06-10 The creature’s eyes push out of its head at the end of stalks. 11-15 The creature’s hands grow claws, causing its unarmed strikes to deal 1d4 slashing damage. 16-20 One of the creature’s legs grows longer than the other, reducing its walking speed by 10 feet. 21-25 The creature’s eyes become beacons, filling a 15-foot cone with dim light when they are open. 26-30 A pair of leathery wings sprout from the creature’s back, giving it a 30 foot flying speed. 31-35 The creature’s ears tear free from its head and scurry away; the target is deafened. 36-40 The creature’s teeth turn into fangs, causing its unarmed strikes to deal 1d4 piercing damage. 41-45 The creature’s skin becomes scabby, giving it a +1 bonus to AC but reducing its Charisma score by 2 (to a minimum of 1). 46-50 The creature’s arms and legs swap, preventing the target from moving unless it crawls. 51-55 The creature’s arms become tentacles with fingers on the end, increasing its reach by 5 feet. 56-60 The creature’s legs grow incredibly long and springy, increasing its walking speed by 10 feet. 61-65 The creature grows a whip-like tail, which it can use as a whip. 66-70 The creature’s eyes turn black, and it gains darkvision out to a range of 120 feet. 71-75 The creature swells, tripling its weight. 76-80 The creature turns skeletal, halving its weight. 81-85 The creature’s head doubles in size. 86-90 The creature’s ears become wings, giving it a flying speed of 5 feet. 91-95 The creature’s body becomes unusually brittle, causing the target to have vulnerability to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. 96-00 The target grows another head, giving it advantage on saving throws against being charmed, frightened, or stunned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 20544
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

