# Three-Headed Kirin

**description**: Traits Elemental Cycle. Each of the kirin’s three heads have a different element: Water, Void, and Air. At the start of combat, the Water head is dominant. At the end of each round, the dominant head switches. It switches first to Void, then to Air, then back to Water, and so on. This affects which attacks and legendary actions the three-headed kirin uses. Reassembly Protocols. An hour after the three-­headed kirin is destroyed, its pieces slowly begin reassembling themselves. The kirin is restored to life with 5 hit points. Regeneration. The three-headed kirin regains 15 hit points at the start of each of its turns. Actions Dynamic Assault. The three-headed kirin makes one melee weapon attack and one special attack each round based on which element is currently dominant: Water Dominant: The kirin makes an icy talons attack, then an absorb warmth attack. Void Dominant: The kirin makes a psychic assault attack, then a purging touch attack. Air Dominant: The kirin makes a sweeping blow attack, then a lightning discharge attack. Icy Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) cold damage. The target’s speed is reduced to 0 until the end of its next turn. This attack is only usable while Water is the dominant element. Absorb Warmth. Special Attack : The three-headed kirin takes a gigantic breath, sucking in all the heat in the room. Every other creature within a 15-foot-radius sphere around it must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 18 (4d8) cold damage and is subjected to the maimed condition (−10 ft. of speed and disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws, removed after it regains HP) for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half damage instead. This attack is only usable while Water is the dominant element. Psychic Assault. Special Attack : The kirin’s eyes shimmer with energy as it launches a psychic attack in a 20-foot wave in front of it (see Wave in Adventures in Rokugan , page 250). Each creature in the wave must make a DC 19 Charisma saving throw. Each creature that fails the saving throw takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage, plus an additional 3 (1d6) psychic damage for each negative condition it is currently suffering. Then, the creature is subjected to the distracted condition (−2 AC, removed after it is hit by an attack) and the marked for death condition (see New Conditions in Adventures in Rokugan , page 251) until the end of the kirin’s next turn. Each creature that succeeds on the saving throw takes half damage instead. This attack is only usable while Void is the dominant element. Purging Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) psychic damage. On hit, the target is subjected to the weakened condition (it loses all of its damage resistances, and its damage immunities become resistances) for 1 hour. Additionally, it can’t perform spells, invocations, externalizations, or other supernatural abilities until the end of the kirin’s next turn. This attack is only usable while Void is the dominant element. Sweeping Blow. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft., up to two targets. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Each target must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. Each target that fails the saving throw is pushed 15 feet away from the kirin and is subjected to the disoriented condition (it can’t make opportunity attacks) until the end of the kirin’s next turn. This attack is only usable while Air is the dominant element. Lightning Discharge. Special Attack : Bolts of lightning shoot out from all over the kirin’s body. Each creature within a 30-foot-radius sphere must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. Each creature that fails the saving throw takes 11 (2d10) lightning damage, plus an additional 2 (1d4) lightning damage for every 5 feet it is away from the kirin. This attack is only usable while Air is the dominant element. Legendary Actions The three-headed kirin can take 3 legendary actions every turn, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Swipe. The three-headed kirin makes one of its melee attacks using an element that is not currently dominant. Drain. The three-headed kirin chooses a creature that is between 40 feet and 60 feet away from it. That creature must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, it suffers one level of exhaustion. Daze. The three-headed kirin chooses a creature that is between 20 feet and 40 feet away. That creature must make a DC 19 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, it takes 13 (3d8) psychic damage and has disadvantage on all attack rolls until the end of its next turn. Expel. The three-headed kirin chooses a creature within 20 feet of it. That creature must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the creature is pushed 15 feet away from the kirin, takes 13 (3d8) force damage, and is frightened of the kirin until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: construct
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 25901
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Tomb of Iuchiban

