# Threskisphinx

**description**: The noble threskisphinx has the body and limbs of a lion and the great feathered wings and head of an ibis. It is a collector and devourer of knowledge, always procuring and searching for books, tomes, and various written materials that discuss arcana, geography, history, mathematics, nature, and religion. Because of its great wisdom, the threskisphinx is often sought by royalty, scholars, wizards, and adventurers. The threshkisphinx will not hesitate to share its knowledge for as long as those who receive it will use it for good. Reclusive Collector. The threskisphinx lives where it can keep its library and collection of books and historical relics organized and well-kept, as well as where it can scribe its own works in privacy. Such places would be abandoned castles, keeps, monasteries, temples, and wizard's towers. It obsessively keeps its lair clean and pristine, using magic to ensure it is free of molds and pests. The threskisphinx will rarely allow visitors inside its abode, let alone its library. It may take a considerable gift and an impressive reputation for the threskisphinx to make an exception. Magic Suppressor. A threskisphinx abhors combat and will never willingly get into a physical confrontation. It will always try to resolve a conflict through peaceful means or through a battle of wits. If forced to fight, the threskisphinx will mainly use its spells and focus on suppressing enemies' magical items. Sphinxes Not all sphinxes are divine guardians tasked to guard gods' treasures. Some sphinxes, like the canisphinx, crocosphinx, dracosphinx, luposphinx, taurusphinx, and the threskisphinx, are free to do as they please. They sometimes work as mercenaries, offering their services to powerful entities. Traits Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Magic Weapons. The sphinx's weapon attacks are magical. Actions Multiattack. The sphinx makes two Claw attacks. If both Claw attacks hit the same target, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) slashing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) slashing damage. Spellcasting. The sphinx casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks): At will: druidcraft, guidance, produce flame (2d8) 1/day each: create or destroy water, erupting earth, freedom of movement, healing spirit, moonbeam, polymorph, tidal wave Suppress Magic (Recharge 5–6). The sphinx targets one magic item it can see within 120 feet of it. If the magic item isn’t an artifact, its magical properties are suppressed for 10 minutes, until the sphinx is incapacitated or dies, or until the sphinx uses a bonus action to end the effect. Legendary Actions The sphinx can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The sphinx regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw Attack. The sphinx makes one Claw attack. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). The sphinx magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The sphinx uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: typically Neutral Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

