# Throne Archon

**description**: The benevolent throne archons are the commanders of all archons and serve as judges and generals. They report directly to planetars, solars, and the deities of Mount Celestia. Throne archons stand 12 feet in height and appear as imposing humanoids with flawless golden skin and intense blazing eyes. They wear impressive-looking golden or silver plate mail armor and wield enormous magical greatswords. Throne archons don't have wings like most archons, but they still can fly effortlessly at will. Their primary duties are overseeing archon officers, conducting court proceedings, and passing judgement. Penitentiary Gaze. Throne archons despise combat, but enemies learn quickly how incredibly powerful throne archons are if they are forced to fight. They are known for their devastating greatsword attacks and their uncanny ability to make foes remorseful of their sins by simply meeting their gaze. Archons The mighty archons are exalted celestial champions who maintain peace, uphold justice, and serve the angels and deities of Arcadia, Bytopia, and the Seven Heavens of Mount Celestia. Benevolent Guardians . Whereas angels act more as agents, commanders, and generals, archons fill the role of soldiers, scouts, and support specialists. They protect the innocent and defenseless and aid the wounded and sick. They despise and stand against malevolent supernatural creatures such as demons, devils, yugoloths, and evil undead. They capture and bring to justice powerful creatures who have performed depraved and despicable acts. Unfortunately, their unwavering sense of righteousness often leaves them vulnerable to manipulation and conflict. Blessed Champions . Archons never willingly use violence unless it is necessary. However, if combat is unavoidable, archons can be a terrifying thing to behold as they become justice and vengeance personified. They radiate an aura of menace that can sap the will of their foes. Archons are expert battle tacticians, able to teleport at will and cast powerful divine spells that can aid allies and banish foes. In addition to their impressive powers, they are also fearless, tireless, resistant to most attacks, and can’t be charmed. Divine Agents . While they rarely leave Mount Celestia, archons can be encountered anywhere, even in the Lower Planes. They frequently travel to the Material Plane on a variety of missions, acting as couriers, messengers, spies, or marshals. Archons have been known to assist adventurers, especially if they are favored by their deities. Types of Archons . There are eight major types of archons, each with different characteristics and abilities. The hound archon, justice archon, and lantern archons are the most numerous ones, and make up the bulk of the archon army, serving as foot soldiers, guards, and scouts. The owl archon, trumpet archon, and warden archon are specialists, while the sword archon and the throne archon act as military officers. Immortal Nature . An archon doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Aura of Menace. The archon emanates an aura of menace in a 30-foot radius. The first time any enemy creature enters the aura or starts its turn there during a battle, the creature must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the archon for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. Improved Critical. The archon's weapon attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Penitentiary Gaze. Provided the archon isn't incapacitated, if a non-lawful good creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the archon and the two of them can see each other, the archon can force the creature to make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw if the archon isn't incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature becomes wracked with guilt and filled with remorse over its life's actions that weren't lawful or good, and suffers an effect depending on its alignment: LN or NG: The target suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The effect lasts until the end of its next turn. The archon doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. CG, CN or N: Gain 1 level of exhaustion. CE, NE, or LE: Gain 1 level of exhaustion and take 5 (1d10) psychic damage and 5 (1d10) radiant damage. A creature that isn't surprised can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If it does so, it can't see the archon until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If it looks at the archon in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the archon's Penitentiary Gaze for the next 24 hours. Magic Resistance. The archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The archon makes three Greatsword attacks, or makes one Greatsword attack and casts one spell that takes 1 action to cast. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) radiant damage. Spellcasting. The archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: aid (5th level), continual flame, detect evil and good 3/day each: banishment, dawn, dispel magic, greater restoration, mass cure wounds 1/day each: circle of power, divine word, resurrection Teleport. The archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

