# Thrummren

**description**: The massive, dog-faced elk charges into battle, lightning crackling between its hooves and antlers, as its giant rider throws bolts of lightning. The sight of a storm giant charging to battle atop a baying thrummren is both breathtaking and terrifying. Heavenly Wanderers. Herds of thrummrens migrate from mountain range to mountain range across vast regions of the Upper Planes. As they travel en masse, storm clouds gather above them, and the pounding of their hooves against the ground is akin to thunder. The lightning storms generated by their proximity are truly amazing to behold. Giant Bond. Most thrummrens on the Material Plane serve as the mounts of storm giant cavaliers. The relationship between mount and rider is complex, with control of the pairing seeming to pass from one to the other and back. Thrummrens never abandon their riders, defending riders to the death if necessary. If its rider falls in battle, a thrummren continues its assault until all foes have fallen. The thrummren then returns the rider’s body to its home community, regardless of the distance. Simurg Friends. When they encounter each other on the forested mountainsides they prefer, thrummren and simurgs share information. The two creatures often converse while on the move with the simurg perched atop the thrummren, looking to observers like some kind of chimeric creature with a long-feathered tail streaming behind it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

