# Thrærexura, God-Cursed

**description**: Thrærexura is a cunning but lazy shadow dragon who covets gems only slightly more than power. Cursed Dragon. After attempting to overthrow Kurtulmak, god of the kobolds, in an attempt to seize both power and wealth, Kurtulmak cursed Thrærexura to remain trapped in the form of a human until the great former kobold fortress and mine of Gatladar is entirely free of human occupation. Thrærexura is now bent on recovering her ability to return to draconic form through any means necessary, though even should she succeed she will never stop planning Kurtulmak’s demise. Shadow Cult. Thrærexura has spent decades building a shadow cult in worship of her dragon form, and makes use of the cult as an army in her machinations. Though trapped in human form, Thrærexura is still a master of the arcane and offers her cultists small pieces of her knowledge of shadow magic in return for their loyalty. After recapturing Gatladar, Thrærexura plans to use the cult to spread her influence to nearby areas and begin a capture of the neighboring regions. Prideful Mate. Thrærexura has a shadow dragon mate, Xixthrithil, who resides on the plane of shadows and who will answer her call if she finds herself in dire need. However, her pride keeps her from calling on Xixthrithil unless she truly fears for her life. Appearance. Thrærexura, in her human form, is dark-skinned with eyes of glowing violet and long, flowing hair like liquid smoke. She is tall and lean, and wears ornate but tasteful dresses adorned with gem-laden jewelry. Plot Hooks Siege at Gatladar. Thrærexura’s cult has been armed and now awaits outside the gates of Gatladar. Decades of planning and preparation have led her to a near-unstoppable victory. Unless the party can be convinced to intervene on behalf of its human captors. Defeat from Within. Thrærexura’s shadow cult has spread its ranks within the fortress of Gatladar, and mysterious happenings are beginning to occur regularly. The fort’s commander seeks specialists in the form of the party to get to the bottom of the strange occurrences. Free the Keep. Thrærexura is nearly ready for her move against the fortress of Gatladar, but seeks out the party as allies to serve as a special strike team. She hides her future motives and true nature from them, seeking to convince them instead that her only goal is to reclaim the keep for its kobold builders. Tactics Thrærexura loathes physical combat, and only resorts to using her whip if absolutely necessary. She uses her cultists as pawns, and allows them to sort out any confrontation without her intervention first. If her foes clearly outmatch her minions, she joins in with powerful spells, seeking to end combat swiftly. Should she be pressed with no means to escape, she casts gate, summoning her mate from the plane of shadows to aid her. Traits Arcane Sight. Thrærexura can see magical auras within 120 ft. of her and knows their schools. This sight penetrates most barriers, but is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 ft. of wood or dirt. Spellcaster. Thrærexura is a 20th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Thrærexura fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When Thrærexura gains an Injury, she can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until she finishes a long rest. Shadowsight. Thrærexura can see normally in lighting conditions other than total darkness. Actions Razor Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) slashing damage, and the target is grappled by the whip. While grappled in this way, the target takes 3 (1d6) slashing damage each time it takes an action. Razor Whirl. Thrærexura jerks her whip free of a creature it is grappling, making the following attack with advantage. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature grappled by the whip. Hit: 28 (8d6) slashing damage and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of its turns or lose 1d6 hit points. A successful saving throw ends this effect on the target. This effect counts as an Injury of Handicap III severity. Power Word: Bleed (1/Rest). Thrærexura casts power word: bleed *. One living creature Thrærexura can see within 90 ft. of her must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take (55) 10d10 force damage and gain a special Injury of Deadly IIII severity, "Ruptured". While Injured in this way, a creature takes 11 (2d10) damage at the start of each of its turns, has its Injury thresholds reduced by 10, and regains only half the usual hit points from spells and potions. This Injury lasts for 1 minute, or until the creature receives magical healing from a spell of 5th level or higher. Shadow Burst (Recharge 5-6). A burst of necrotic energy withers life in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on a point Thrærexura can see within 150 ft. of her. Each creature in the area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 28 (8d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. The burst spreads around corners. This counts as a spell of 3rd level. Shadow Lance. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d10) necrotic damage and the target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or have its movement speed reduced by 10 ft.. The target can make a new saving throw to end this effect on itself at the end of each of its turns. Shadow Puppet. Thrærexura puppeteers the shadow of another creature, forcing it to do her bidding. One creature in bright or dim light she can see that is within 60 ft. of her must make a DC 19 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the creature loses its ability to move and to take bonus actions or reactions, and must use its action to take any action Thrærexura orders it to for 1 minute. Commanding the puppetted creature requires Thrærexura to use her reaction when the creature’s turn comes in initiative order. If she does not command it, it takes no actions. The creature can make a new saving throw to end this effect on itself at the end of each of its turns. Thrærexura can only have one creature puppeteered at a time. This effect requires concentration. Gate (1/Rest). Thrærexura conjures a gate to the shadow plane, speaking the name Xixthrithil and summoning a shadow dragon to a point within 60 ft. of her that she can see. Fly (1/Rest). Thrærexura casts fly on herself. Thrærexura gains a flying speed of 60 ft. for 10 minutes (requires concentration). When the spell ends, she falls if she is still aloft unless she can stop the fall. Legendary Actions Thrærexura can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Thrærexura regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Shadow Lance. Thrærexura uses Shadow Lance. Inner Darkness (Costs 2 Actions). One creature Thrærexura can see must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become blinded as inky darkness fills its eyes. This effect is an illusion and counts as magical darkness. The creature can make a new saving throw to end this effect on itself at the end of each of its turns. Shadow Web (Costs 3 Actions). Up to three creatures Thrærexura can see within 60 ft. of her must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained by webs of shadow magic for 1 hour. A creature restrained by the webs can use its action to make a DC 19 Strength check to free itself. A creature has advantage on its saving throw if it is in bright light, disadvantage on its saving throw if it is in dim light, and can’t be affected by this ability if it is in darkness.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

