# Tigbanua

**description**: Tigbanua (Tigban-nu-wah) A tigbanua is a voracious predator and scavenger that resembles a gangly 7-foot tall humanoid with a long, flexible neck and a hideous head that, at first glance, looks like an eyeless cyclops. This is not the case, though, as the hollowed socket in the middle of its face is actually its nostrils. Its spindly arms and legs have oversized hands and feet, each ending in razor-sharp claws, and jagged teeth filled its horrid mouth. Despite its ghastly appearance, the tigbanua is not an undead creature. Cursed Humans. The tigbanuas was once a nomadic clan of cannibalistic humans who lived within the fringes of society. They preyed on lonely travelers and isolated families, moving from location to another once people became suspicious. But their vile activities were discovered, and a rabid mob nearly wiped them out. A few escaped into the wilderness but soon were starving to death. They stumbled upon the rotting corpse of a dead hunter, and because they were ravenous, ate it. Not long after, they became very ill. Experiencing excruciating pain and at the edge of death, they reached out to their false gods, imploring them to end their suffering. Orcus, the Demon Prince of Undeath, answered instead and gave them a choice - die or receive its 'gift.' Each tigbanua unwittingly made the same choice and was transformed into what they appear now - a race of feral, ghoul-like humanoids. Supernatural Predator. Despite being completely blind, its other senses are heightened, making it a successful predator. It can smell carrion a mile away, and its long flexible necks and sensitive hearing enable it to hear and sense movement from any direction. Its powerful feral form allows it to pursue, catch, and bring down prey easier. The tigbanua also constantly exudes a supernatural aura that causes anyone around it to be filled with dread. Aswang Curse. Those that manage to survive a tigbanua's onslaught are still not free of danger, though, as those bitten by a tigbanua can become afflicted by a curse. Unless the curse is removed, the victim will transform into a buso, a type of aswang. Opportunistic Scavengers. Tigbanuas hunt in packs and prowl places where there is plenty of carrion, such as battlefields, cemeteries, and graveyards, as well as isolated areas and roads frequented by small groups of travelers. Traits Blind Senses. The tigbanua can't use its blindsight while deafened and unable to smell. Fear Aura. Any creature hostile to the tigbanua that starts its turn within 10 feet of the tigbanua must make a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw, unless the tigbanua is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the tigbanua's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Keen Hearing and Smell. The tigbanua has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Pack Tactics. The tigbanua has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the tigbanua's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated. Actions Multiattack. The tigbanua makes two attacks: one with its Bite and one with its Claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage and if the target is a humanoid, it must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or become afflicted by the buso aswang curse (page 17). Casting remove curse , greater restoration , or a similar spell on the target before the transformation is complete can end the curse. Doing so undoes the changes made to the target by the curse. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

