# Tikbalang

**description**: Tikbalang (Tik-bahlung) The tikbalang is a malicious fey creature that resembles a 9-foot tall, muscular humanoid with dark, leathery skin and a horrid-looking equine head. Its mouth is filled with serrated teeth, and a crest of sharp, dark, and venomous spines runs from the back of its neck down to its lower back. The tikbalang has muscular arms that end in oversized claw-like hands and long horse-like legs. Depraved Trickster. The tikbalang is a mischievous and self-indulgent creature that sees itself as a guardian of nature and the Feywild against intrusion. However, it doesn’t openly attack intruders. Instead, it plays tricks and toys with its victims using its spells and ability to mimic voices, luring and leading travelers astray while remaining hidden. While the tikbalang enjoys in the suffering it causes with its cruel games, it doesn’t intentionally try to kill its victims unless it sees something it wants from them, such as treasure or an attractive humanoid of the opposite sex. It is said that one can placate the tikbalang with offerings of food, treasure, or even a game of witty banter. Dangerous Weapons. If confronted or provoked, a tikbalang can be a dangerous foe to face in combat. Aside from its spells, the tikbalang can deliver vicious kicks and Tail attacks and hurl venomous spines. Its mouth drips with saliva that contains highly septic bacteria that can inflict a deadly disease unless treated. Dark Allies. Tikbalangs prowl the edge of ancient forests near civilized lands, lurking near roads and trails that mortals take. They have been known to associate with aswangs, dark duwendes, kapres, quicklings, and redcaps. Tikbalangs often serve powerful evil fey, such as hags and malignos. Traits Keen Smell. The tikbalang has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Magic Resistance. The sarimanok has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Mimicry. The tikbalang can mimic animal sounds and humanoid voices. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check. Actions Multiattack. The tikbalang makes three attacks: one Bite attack or Kick attack and two Claw attacks, or three Mane Spine attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw against disease or become poisoned until the disease is cured. Every 24 hours that elapse, the creature must repeat the saving throw, reducing its hit point maximum by 5 (1d10) on a failure. This reduction lasts until the disease is cured. The creature dies if the disease reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage. Kick. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage and if the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Mane Spine. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage and the target is poisoned for 1 minute or until one spends an action to remove the spine. Illusory Appearance. The tikbalang covers itself and anything it is wearing or carrying with a magical illusion that makes it look like another creature of Large size or smaller. The illusion ends if the tikbalang takes a bonus action to end it or if it dies. The changes wrought by this effect fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, the tikbalang could appear to have a regular humanoid face, but someone touching its face would feel its equine-shaped snout. Otherwise, a creature must take an action to visually inspect the illusion and succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the tikbalang is disguised. Spellcasting. The tikbalang casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: charm person, invisibility, silent image, vicious mockery 1/day each: blindness/deafness, confusion, crown of madness, hallucinatory terrain, suggestion Reactions Rear Kick. When a creature the tikbalang can see moves within 5 feet of it, the tikbalang can make one Kick attack against the creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

