# Tiktik

**description**: Tiktik (Tik-tik) A tiktik is a devious aswang often mistaken for a vampire or werebat because of its appearance. It is gangly, shifty, and slavering in its humanoid form, with an unusually long tongue and large nostrils. In its fiend form, the tiktik resembles a feral humanoid with dark leathery skin covered with a shallow layer of brown fur. A hard mask-like shell plating protects its face, and a row of bony protrusions line its spine. Like a vampire bat, the tiktik’s wings are actually its fingers, with the membrane between the finger bones making up the wing. Its fingers and feet end in long, black talons. Its most distinct feature is its 10-foot long, tubular tongue that ends in a proboscis-like tip. Just like the manananggal, its tongue secretes anesthetic saliva that numbs the pain, allowing the tiktik to drain its victim at leisure. Specialized Predator. A tiktik’s hunting behavior typically starts by flying over a town or village and searching for its favorite prey: unborn babies. Pregnant women give off a distinct odor which the tiktik can pick up even from miles away with its keen sense of smell. Upon reaching the home of its intended target, the tiktik will usually land on the victim’s roof or wall beside a window adjacent to its prey. With the target’s strong scent driving it ravenous, the tiktik begins to drool. It first checks if its prey is sleeping before it acts. It then starts digging a hole through the roof or window with its talons, creating a soft ‘tiktik’ sound from which the aswang gets its name. Once it has successfully created an aperture, it sends its snaking tongue inside to puncture the target’s womb and suck the unborn fetus through its proboscis. If it can’t find its favorite prey, the tiktik will settle for sucking the blood, liver, and heart from young folk and children. Because their tongue drips with anesthetic saliva, a sleeping victim may not notice the attack. Craven Pack Hunter. A tiktik fears direct combat and will flee if discovered. If cornered or caught, however, it will defend itself until it can find an opportunity to escape. A tiktik sometimes joins the company of other aswangs, especially manananggals and other tiktiks. These groups of aswang form hunting packs when they intend to attack a household. Aswang (Uh-swung) An aswang is an accursed humanoid that transforms into a fiend. In its natural form, an aswang resembles a typical humanoid. At night, it can change its shape into a cunning, demonic predator. It hunts other humanoids and feasts on their blood, organs, or life force. Aswang Curse. A humanoid creature can be afflicted by the aswang curse after it willingly made or was tricked into making a dark pact with a Demon Lord, sometimes through the actions of a hag. One can also be born into it if one or both of its parents are aswangs. Casting remove curse, greater restoration , or similar spell can free a humanoid of the curse, but a natural born aswang can only be freed of the curse with a wish . An aswang can either resist its curse or welcome it. By fighting the curse, an aswang keeps its normal behavior and personality while in its natural form. It can try to live its life as it wants but must constantly stave off the urge to feed. However, at nights of the full moon, the hunger becomes too great, and the curse overcomes the individual, forcing it to transform into its fiendish form. An aswang driven to this state becomes ravenous and will not stop hunting until it has fed. Each night that it fails to feed in its fiend form, it gains 1 level of exhaustion. A genuinely depraved individual, or someone corrupted by it, sees the aswang curse as a gift and, over time, masters the ability to change into a fiend. However, an aswang can only transform at night and retain its demonic form until dawn, at which point it automatically transforms back to its humanoid form. Masters of Deception. Aswangs hide in plain sight, living amongst normal folk and often taking up occupations like butchers, hunters, gravediggers, taxidermists, and trappers to help divert suspicions of why their homes may sometimes smell of carrion and death. They insert themselves into humanoid communities and earn their neighbors' trust through charm, friendliness, and generosity. They avoid getting physically close to an individual, though, because if one looks directly at their eyes, they will discover that their reflection is upside down. Aswangs tend to prey on members of society that no one will miss if they suddenly disappear. If such targets are unavailable, they travel to another community, settlement, or location that is far from their homes. They won't risk feeding near where they live. Anyone who becomes suspicious of them, or sees them in their fiendish form, is always dealt with immediately for fear of rousing an organized mob. A successful clan of aswangs can live in the outskirts of town, preying on its citizens for years without getting caught. If things start to go awry, the aswangs will not risk staying. They will leave as soon as they can and establish themselves in another community to begin anew. Night Stalkers. Aswangs are careful, patient, and stealthy hunters, often choosing targets that are defenseless or weak. Typically during the day, aswangs pick and mark their target and identify where they live. At night after they transform, they stalk their prey and bide their time until they can attack when their target is most vulnerable. This means most of their assaults happen when their target is alone or asleep. They often just leave the bodies of their victims where they are to avoid the risk of getting caught. Because their kills bear specific types of wounds commonly attributed to ghouls, lycanthropes, or vampires, they aren't worried suspicions about their presence will be brought up. Aswang Weaknesses. Aswangs, much like vampires, have several weaknesses. They find the pungent smell of garlic repulsive, and the chemical properties of pure salt sicken it. While an aswang can resist most blows, weapons made from a stingray's barbed tail, even simple ones, can hurt them normally. Because they become fiends while transformed, they are susceptible to attacks that specifically harm fiends, such as holy water. If an aswang fails its saving throw against a Dispel Evil and Good spell, it reverts to its humanoid form and can't transform for 1 minute. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The tiktik has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Actions Multiattack. The tiktik makes two attacks: two with its Dagger (humanoid form) or one with its Tongue and one with its Talons (fiend form). Tongue (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage, and the tiktik's tongue attaches to the target. While attached, the tiktik can't attack with its tongue. Instead, at the start of each of the tiktik's turns, the target loses 7 (1d4 + 5) hit points and the tiktik regains hit points equal to the amount of hit points lost by the target. If the target is unconscious and takes damage or loses hit points, it must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or fail to notice the attack. The tiktik can detach its tongue by using a bonus action. It does so after it drains 15 hit points of blood from the target or the target dies. A creature, including the target, can use its action to detach the tiktik's tongue. Talons (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) slashing damage. Dagger (Humanoid Form Only). Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. Change Shape. The tiktik polymorphs into its Fiend Form or back into its true form, which is humanoid. In Fiend Form, the tiktik appears as a hybrid humanoid vampire bat. Its statistics, other than its Speed, damage, and damage resistances, are the same in each form. It reverts to its true form at dawn or if it dies. The tiktik can only use this action at night. While transformed, the tiktik also gains the following features: The tiktik's creature type changes to fiend. The tiktik has advantage on Strength and Dexterity checks and Strength and Dexterity saving throws. When the tiktik makes a melee weapon attack, it gains a +3 bonus to the damage roll (included in the attack). The tiktik can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. If the tiktik starts its turn within 10 feet of a pound of salt or garlic, it becomes poisoned until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

