# Time Raider Armiger

**description**: The kuran’zoi (coor-AN-zoy), also called time raiders, are humanoids who make the Astral Sea their home. Many kuran’zoi make their living as guides for travelers from other planes, while others survive on the Sea of Stars through piracy of interplanar vessels. Veterans of the Psychic Wars. Thousands of years ago, the synlirii—a powerful species of evil psionic aberrations—created kuran’zoi as soldiers. But as the synlirii experimented and enhanced these warriors’ psionic abilities, the kuran’zoi saw the true nature of their progenitors. They rebelled against the synlirii and fled to the Astral Sea, becoming nomads of the timescape. Hardened-Vision Hexapods. Kuran’zoi possess resilient ocular sensors that allow them to see in the dark. Knowing these sensors would also defend them against the hardlight storms of the Astral Sea, the escaping kuran’zoi chose the Sea of Stars as their home. They thrive where the winds of limbo roar. Time raiders also have two sets of arms, allowing them to wield melee weapons at the same time as ranged weapons. A single well-trained kuran’zoi is like a squad unto themself. Psi-Tech. Like their synlirii foes, time raiders travel on mindships and wield psionic weapons and tools that only their people can activate. Many kuran’zoi specialize in melee weapons that psionically devastate enemies, but time raider vertexes also learn to pilot enormous suits of psionic armor that empower their allies. Genre Raiders. The moniker “time raider” is imprecise. When kuran’zoi raid a world of the timescape—like Orden—that relies on sorcery instead of kuran’zoi technology, it seems to those people as though the time raiders have been to the future and returned with marvelous weapons from worlds where light hits as hard as steel. Leave a Few Alive. Time raider pirates plunder traveling vessels, allowing just enough of the crew to survive so the ship can make it back home as a warning. Kuran’zoi pirate captains often remind their crews, “Leave the sheep alive. Next year, they’ll return with a new coat of wool for us to shear.” Creatures Outside Time. While in the Sea of Stars, time raiders and other creatures don’t age. As a result, many living kuran’zoi recall the Psychic Wars. They carry the lessons learned from millennia of war into new battles with devastating effect, using mindships to launch attacks on other planes and appearing exactly where they want to. However, this knowledge serves them far beyond war; time raiders raise their young in ruined citadels and similar strongholds on obscure worlds, keeping their creches secret and protected. Traits Psychic Scar. The armiger is immune to any effect that would sense their emotions, read their thoughts, reveal they are lying, or reveal their alignment or location. Actions Multiattack. The armiger makes two attacks using Blaster, Serrated Saber, or both. Serrated Saber. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage, and the target has disadvantage on their next attack roll made before the start of the armiger’s next turn. Blaster. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) radiant damage. Concussive Slam ( 1 st-Order Power). The armiger rains down telekinetic force on a creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or take 7 (3d4) force damage and be knocked prone. Reactions *Sickening Sympathy ( 2 nd-Order Power). When another creature the armiger can see within 30 feet of them is hit with an attack, the armiger floods the attacker’s mind with the nauseous pain of their target. The attacker must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of their next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Time Raider)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

