# Time Raider Vertex

**description**: The kuran’zoi (coor-AN-zoy), also called time raiders, are humanoids who make the Astral Sea their home. Many kuran’zoi make their living as guides for travelers from other planes, while others survive on the Sea of Stars through piracy of interplanar vessels. Veterans of the Psychic Wars. Thousands of years ago, the synlirii—a powerful species of evil psionic aberrations—created kuran’zoi as soldiers. But as the synlirii experimented and enhanced these warriors’ psionic abilities, the kuran’zoi saw the true nature of their progenitors. They rebelled against the synlirii and fled to the Astral Sea, becoming nomads of the timescape. Hardened-Vision Hexapods. Kuran’zoi possess resilient ocular sensors that allow them to see in the dark. Knowing these sensors would also defend them against the hardlight storms of the Astral Sea, the escaping kuran’zoi chose the Sea of Stars as their home. They thrive where the winds of limbo roar. Time raiders also have two sets of arms, allowing them to wield melee weapons at the same time as ranged weapons. A single well-trained kuran’zoi is like a squad unto themself. Psi-Tech. Like their synlirii foes, time raiders travel on mindships and wield psionic weapons and tools that only their people can activate. Many kuran’zoi specialize in melee weapons that psionically devastate enemies, but time raider vertexes also learn to pilot enormous suits of psionic armor that empower their allies. Genre Raiders. The moniker “time raider” is imprecise. When kuran’zoi raid a world of the timescape—like Orden—that relies on sorcery instead of kuran’zoi technology, it seems to those people as though the time raiders have been to the future and returned with marvelous weapons from worlds where light hits as hard as steel. Leave a Few Alive. Time raider pirates plunder traveling vessels, allowing just enough of the crew to survive so the ship can make it back home as a warning. Kuran’zoi pirate captains often remind their crews, “Leave the sheep alive. Next year, they’ll return with a new coat of wool for us to shear.” Creatures Outside Time. While in the Sea of Stars, time raiders and other creatures don’t age. As a result, many living kuran’zoi recall the Psychic Wars. They carry the lessons learned from millennia of war into new battles with devastating effect, using mindships to launch attacks on other planes and appearing exactly where they want to. However, this knowledge serves them far beyond war; time raiders raise their young in ruined citadels and similar strongholds on obscure worlds, keeping their creches secret and protected. Traits Psychic Scar. The vertex is immune to any effect that would sense their emotions, read their thoughts, reveal they are lying, or reveal their alignment or location. Actions Multiattack. The vertex makes two Psionic Slam attacks. Psionic Slam. Melee Power Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage, and the next attack roll against the target made before the start of the vertex’s next turn has advantage. Split Space ( 2 /Day). The vertex chooses a point in a precise location they have seen (in person or otherwise) on any plane of existence. A shimmering 10-foot-diameter portal leading to that location appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the vertex. Each creature who touches the portal is instantly teleported to the nearest unoccupied space at the chosen location. The portal lasts until the vertex dies, uses this action again, dismisses the portal as an action, or is transported by the portal. Bonus Actions *Invigorated March ( 3 rd-Order Power). The vertex emits invigorating psionic energy. Each time raider within 60 feet of the vertex can use their reaction to move up to half their speed. Reactions Kinetic Defense Field. When another Medium or smaller creature the vertex can see within 120 feet of them takes damage, that damage is reduced by 15.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Humanoid (Time Raider)
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

