# Tisiphone, The Primal Chaos

**description**: There exists a circle of druids known as the Circle of Symbiosis, whose devotees of the natural world sought to unite themselves with it in the most literal sense, utilizing the forbidden art of osteomancy to replace their own limbs with those of the creatures and plants that surrounded them. The resulting "awakened symbiotic entities" are beings that transcend the confines of their mortal forms, becoming monstrous amalgamations that defies the very laws of nature they revere. The Chosen One It was within this circle that a child named Tisiphone came into being, her fate irrevocably intertwined with the abhorrent rituals that marked the Circle of Symbiosis. From a tender age, she was subjected to the cruel and agonizing rites that would transform her into a living instrument of the Circle's insidious will. As she grew, the line between her humanity and the monstrous grafts that adorned her body blurred, until she could no longer recognize herself as the child she once was. Tisiphone ‘s motivations were shaped by the dark teachings of her parents and their subservience to the circle, which instilled in her a fervent desire to make all living beings one with nature, by any means necessary. No sacrifice was too great for the cause, and her unwavering devotion drove her to inflict upon others the same torment that she herself had endured. Her origins as a child of the circle had bestowed upon her a terrifying affinity for her rampaging powers, and as she aged, her humanity waned, giving way to something far more relentless and unforgiving. Child of the Greater Good Her drive was fueled by the knowledge that the circle's practices had earned them the scorn and revulsion of the civilized world, a fact that only served to strengthen her resolve. Undeterred by the ostracism they faced, Tisiphone and her fellow druids continued to recruit—or abduct—more individuals to join their cause, swelling the ranks of their twisted order and spreading their influence ever further. Yet, for all her monstrous power and unyielding determination, Tisiphone was not without her weaknesses. The very grafts that granted her strength were also her greatest vulnerability, a reminder of the humanity she had sacrificed for the sake of her family’s vision. As her body became more and more indistinguishable from the creatures and roots that constituted her grafts, the last vestiges of her former self struggled to maintain their hold upon her soul, a fact further exacerbated by the truth-seeking orb —the will of the circle made manifest— orbiting her since her ascension, the sentient relic constantly whispering in her mind. Traits Keen Hearing and Sight. Tisiphone has advantage on Perception checks that rely on hearing or sight. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If Tisiphone fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Natural Resistance. Tisiphone has advantage on saving throws against spells, other magical effects, and effects that would knock her prone. Primal Resurrection. When Tisiphone is reduced to 0 hit points, her orb of truth absorbs her essence. The orb of truth has an AC of 20, 50 hit points, a flying speed of 60 feet, the same resistances and immunities as Tisiphone, and is invisible. It must reach Tisiphone's circle within 2 hours or be destroyed. Once in the circle, it releases Tisiphone with 0 hit points and she is paralyzed until she regains at least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in her circle in this way, she regains 1 hit point. If the orb is destroyed before reaching the circle, Tisiphone is also destroyed. Primeval Power. Tisiphone's weapon attacks are magical and deal additional damage equal to her Wisdom modifier on a hit (included in the stat block). Spellcasting. Tisiphone is a 14th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). Tisiphone has the following druid spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): bestial roar, guidance, poison spray, shillelagh (cast before combat) 1st level (4 slots): bone shield, longstrider 2nd level (3 slots): barkskin (cast before combat), blind ambush, heat metal, skeletal tail 3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, osseous cage, plant growth 4th level (3 slots): blight, graveyard shuffle, maiden of bones, stoneskin 5th level (2 slots): ancestral bond, contagion, forest of dread, tree stride 6th level (1 slot): wall of thorns 7th level (1 slot): amputate Violent Regeneration. Tisiphone regains 18 hit points at the start of her turn if she has at least 1 hit point. In addition, whenever she takes damage, each creature of her choice within 5 feet of her takes 5 (2d4) piercing damage as her bark explodes. Actions Multiattack. Tisiphone makes two staff attacks. She can cast a spell of 4th level or lower in place of one attack. Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage and Tisiphone gains temporary hit points equal to the damage dealt. Bonus actions Orb of Truth. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) acid, bludgeoning, cold, or poison damage (Tisiphone’s choice). Legendary Actions Tisiphone can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Tisiphone regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Staff. Tisiphone makes one staff attack. Cast Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Tisiphone casts a spell of 4th level or lower.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

