# Titivilus

**description**: Dispater, the gloomy Lord of Dis, rules from his iron palace, seeming to hide behind its labyrinthine corridors, iron walls, diabolical traps, and monstrous servants. Knowing he has enemies on all sides and fearing he’ll be displaced like Moloch, Geryon, and so many others, he almost never travels farther than the sprawling city that lies outside his palace. Dispater is correct to fear, but the true threat comes not from without. The lord’s great error was allowing himself to be seduced by Titivilus, who beguiled his way into being the primary advisor in Dispater’s household. Although Titivilus is inferior in physical strength and power when compared to other archdevils, he compensates with cunning. A shrewd politician, he has clawed his way up through the ranks to become the second-most powerful devil in Dis, entirely by saying the right thing at the right time to get what he wanted. Charming and pleasant, he is a master at negotiation, able to twist words so as to leave his victims confused and believing he’s on their side. Through these skills, Titivilus has manipulated everyone along his path to power, either to win them over to his cause or to remove them as a threat. Since gaining his position, Titivilus has convinced Dispater that countless plots are being hatched against him and that Asmodeus himself seeks to remove Dispater from power. In response, Dispater has withdrawn to his palace and left day-to-day decisions to Titivilus, even authorizing him to answer and negotiate bargains with mortals who attempt to summon Dispater. Titivilus now represents his master and speaks with his voice, a turn of events that leads some to whisper that either Titivilus is Dispater in disguise or Titivilus has removed the archduke and replaced him altogether. Titivilus recognizes the precariousness of his position. After all, Dispater’s acceptance of his plans and his advice can last only so long before some other plotter steps in and reveals the truth. For insurance, Titi­vilus has begun recruiting outsiders to deal with problem devils, to insulate him against criticism, and, above all, to create complications that he can solve so as to reinforce his value in the eyes of his master. Titi­vilus finds adventurers well suited to the tasks he needs performed and recruits them directly or through intermediaries, expending them later as his plans require. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Titivilus fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Titivilus has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. Titivilus regains 10 hit points at the start of his turn. If he takes cold or radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of his next turn. Titivilus dies only if he starts his turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Ventriloquism. Whenever Titivilus speaks, he can choose a point within 60 feet of him; his voice emanates from that point. Actions Multiattack. Titivilus makes one Silver Sword attack, and he uses Frightful Word. Silver Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) force damage, or 9 (1d10 + 4) force damage if used with two hands, plus 16 (3d10) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to half the necrotic damage taken. Frightful Word. Titivilus targets one creature he can see within 10 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of him for 1 minute. While frightened in this way, the target must take the Dash action and move away from Titivilus by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case it needn’t take the Dash action. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. Titivilus casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 21): At will: alter self , major image , nondetection , sending , suggestion 3/day each: mislead , modify memory Teleport. Titivilus teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Twisting Words. Titivilus targets one creature he can see within 60 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 21 Charisma saving throw or become charmed by Titivilus for 1 minute. The charmed target can repeat the saving throw if Titivilus deals any damage to it. A creature that succeeds on the saving throw is immune to Titivilus’s Twisting Words for 24 hours. Legendary Actions Titivilus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Titivilus regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Corrupting Guidance. Titivilus uses Twisting Words. Alternatively, he targets one creature charmed by him that is within 60 feet of him; that charmed target must succeed on a DC 21 Charisma saving throw, or Titivilus decides how the target acts during its next turn. Teleport. Titivilus uses Teleport. Assault (Costs 2 Actions). Titivilus makes one Silver Sword attack, or he uses Frightful Word.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 14934
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mordenkainen Presents - Monsters of the Multiverse

