# Toad King

**description**: This human-sized toad has an enormous head and expressive onyx eyes. His broad smile, accentuated by wrinkles and warts, complements his regal bearing and attire. King of Frogs. All amphibians respect the Toad King, but frogs and toads follow his orders. He lives among them in swampy areas and often adds his voice to their croaking choruses. Fairy-tale Nobility. Comporting himself with dignity, the Toad King enjoys pretending to be a prince or king cursed to take a toad’s form. He spins a grand tale about witches or fey enchanters and convinces listeners to undertake elaborate quests to break the curse. He is generous with castings of heroism to aid those who agree to do his bidding, but he often insists on casting geas to ensure compliance. The Toad King hints at rewards but tries not to promise anything specific. If he does guarantee a reward, he is obligated to make good on his promise if his pawns succeed. On the Cusp of Legend. The Toad King has not quite achieved status equivalent to other animal lords. However, he expects he will undergo apotheosis when he convinces a hero or group of heroes to complete a grand adventure on his behalf. The Toad King’s Quests The Toad King enjoys sending adventurers on elaborate quests to cure his “curse,” often spinning tales of his woeful plight wrought at the hands of evil fey or witches. Here are some example quests for particularly helpful adventurers: * Retrieve the warty nose of a green hag who lives deep in the swamp, then burn it in the remains of a yowler . The Toad King must inhale the rotten perfume. * Collect a dozen thornless roses from the cursed forest and sprinkle the petals in an ellipse around the Toad King at midnight on the night of a full moon. * Bathe a false gemstone from an arachnocrat in the molten saliva of a hoard drake , then place the glistening jewel on the Toad King’s forehead. * Obtain a gallon of water once inhabited by a crinaea . The water must be freely given and free of poison, and the Toad King must bathe in it for 24 hours. * Soak the feather of a lymarien in the tears of guardian naga. The Toad King must consume the tear-soaked feather before the next crescent moon. * Bring the Toad King a cloak of winter wolf fur held together by a clasp made from a haleshi’s clam. The clam must have been used by the haleshi at least once to magically transport itself and others. * The Toad King must consume a potion made of basilisk eyes, pixie dust, and holy water. The potion must be frozen by an ice bogie before consumption. * Weave a crown made of hair from a sea hag, an orphan of the black , and a mountain nymph , then place the crown on the Toad King’s head. * Coat an acorn in a paste made from ashes left in an ashen custodian’s wake and plant it in the soil of the Toad King’s home. The first seed the tree bears will cure the Toad King. Animal Lords While humanoids have vast pantheons and divine figures of every stripe, the animals of the world have much simpler forms of faith. Among each species there is always one paragon that embodies the animal spirit in a humanoid form, the better to speak to others and represent the animals in celestial councils. The animal lords first appear in the Creature Codex. Two additional animal lords are presented here: the Queen of Scorpions , an exiled animal lord who manipulates the mortal world through a complex network of thieves and spies from her desert home, and the Toad King, a burgeoning animal lord who seeks apotheosis by sending brave heroes on complex quests.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 8073
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 2

