# Tor Linnorm

**description**: Linnorm The powerful, serpentine beings known as linnorms might be related distantly to the more well-known dragons, but their draconic physiologies are where any such similarities end. Whereas true dragons boast incredible intellectual capabilities and far-reaching plans, linnorms are driven only by their insatiable hunger and desire to inflict cruelty on others. Linnorms are exceptionally difficult to outwit due to their strong wills, and it’s not wise to try bargaining with them—when faced with one of these legendary beasts, one’s best option is flight, pure and simple. Failing that, a noble death remains a viable back-up plan. Tor Linnorm Tor linnorms dwell in the tallest volcanic mountains, and their tempers can be as hot and destructive as the magma the creature resembles. Traits Creature of Primal Magic. The tor linnorm is constantly under the effects of freedom of movement . Curse of Boiling Blood. When a creature slays a tor linnorm, it must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or gain vulnerability to fire, and gain two permanent levels of exhaustion. This curse is treated as the spell bestow curse cast from a 9th level slot. Draconic Nature. The tor linnorm does not age, and magic can’t put the linnorm to sleep. Lava Affinity. The tor linnorm can breathe and swim freely while submerged in lava and magma. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the tor linnorm fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The tor linnorm has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. The tor linnorm regains 15 hit points at the start of its turn. If the linnorm takes cold damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of its next turn. The linnorm dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The tor linnorm makes four attacks: once with its bite, twice with its claws, and once with its tail. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (2d12+10) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) fire damage, and the target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage and gaining the poisoned condition on a failed save, or half as much damage and is not poisoned on a successful one. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d6+10) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d4+10) bludgeoning damage. Ashen Breath (Recharge 5–6). The tor linnorm exhales flame and ash in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 70 (20d6) fire damage and becoming blinded for 1 minute on a failed save. Such a creature takes half as much damage and does not become blinded on a successful one. The area of the cone is filled with thick, scorching smoke that burns the lungs and eyes until the end of the linnorm’s next turn. Creatures that end their turn in the lingering ash cloud take 35 (10d6) fire damage and must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or become blinded for 1 minute. Legendary Actions The tor linnorm can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The tor linnorm regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The tor linnorm makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. The tor linnorm makes a tail attack. Stoke the Fires (Costs 2 Actions). The linnorm focuses its internal fire gland, allowing it to roll immediately to recharge its breath weapon.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

