# Trapper

**description**: Trappers are clever monsters found only in caves, caverns, and other dark places. They prefer a subterranean habitation to all others. They shape their flat bodies to conform to the floor surface of their abode. Being of a consistency almost as hard as stone, trappers are nearly impossible to detect (95%) by any normal means. Usually, a trapper will wait until its prey is near its center (where it often creates a protuberance which resembles a chest or box) and then suddenly closes itself upon the unsuspecting victims. The trapper then crushes them doing a base damage of 4 plus the armor class of the victim per turn of crushing. Those entrapped are unable to use weapons, for the great musculature of the trapper prevents it. Prey will be smothered in 6 melee rounds regardless of the damage sustained. It must be killed or faced with certain death to make it free its prey. Its treasure is kept beneath it. Trappers are resistant to fire and cold (half or no damage). Lurker Below. Trappers are amorphous in form, so they can shape themselves to the form of the floors of the places they choose to await prey. A typical trapper can cover on area of up to 400 square feet, and giant specimens can cover as much as 600 square feet. The trapper also has the advantage of being able to alter its coloration to blend with the color of the floor or ground upon which it rests. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatDescription, li.StatDescription, div.StatDescription {mso-style-name:"Stat Description"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

