# Treant Immobilizer (PB 3)

**description**: Trees awakened to consciousness by archdruids, treants care for the forest, nature, and the world as stewards and wardens. A face forms on their upper trunk, and their lower trunk divides into two legs. Vines twirl around the treant’s flexible branches, which act as powerful arms that end in claws of sharpened wood. Chosen Ones. Archdruids can imbue a special sapling with transformative magic, bringing a treant sapling to life. This ritual is no ordinary plant awakening, and the saplings are carefully chosen for their appreciation of the natural beauty of the world and their desire to nurture it. Occasionally, an awakened sapling survives for thousands of years—often by retreating into the depths of an ancient forest—and grows to become a true treant. Most treants hold fast to their passion for nature and swear to defend the forest that allowed them to grow old and strong. Ripple Awakenings. Though the first treants were created by archdruids, an ancient treant can themself create new treants by bonding with a tree for a decade, then awakening the plant. The more ancient and undisturbed a forest, the more likely it holds a grove of treants ready to defend the land. Nature’s Guardians. Treants are profoundly attuned to nature and their home forest. Many treant groves guard special areas, such as a druid’s grove or a source of primal magic. These staunch protectors don’t hesitate to confront questionable travelers, and they’re likely to attack those who act recklessly toward the forest. Violence is rarely a treant’s first course of action, but they have no interest in negotiating with anyone they deem untrustworthy. A provoked treant offers a single stern warning, which only the most foolish intruders ignore. When enemies inevitably flee, the treant rarely gives chase outside the bounds of their woods, satisfied they have defended their charge. One with the Forest. The magic within treants touches the webs of magic connecting their forest, allowing them to call forth vines and heal allies. Their roots sense the vibrations of nearby creatures. Treants can speak with both plants and animals, many of whom who act as their scouts. Treant Arrows. When another creatures risks their life for the forest standing side by side with a treant, the plant rewards the bravery by giving them one or more treant arrows. Traits Signature Attack (Claw). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2d6 plus PB slashing damage. Beginning at 7th level, the immobilizer can make this attack twice, instead of once, when they take the Attack action on their turn. Features 3 rd Level: Lash Out ( 3 /Day). As a bonus action, the immobilizer whips a vine toward a creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 10 feet toward the immobilizer and grappled (escape DC 10 plus PB). Until this grapple ends, the immobilizer’s attacks against the target deal an extra PB bludgeoning damage. 5 th Level: Ground Stomp ( 3 /Day). As an action, the im­­mobilizer stomps the ground. Each creature within 10 feet of the immobilizer must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. Then the immobilizer can make a signature attack with a reach of 10 feet against one prone creature. 7 th Level: Entomb ( 1 /Day). As a bonus action, the immobilizer calls spiky vines to surround a creature they can see within 60 feet of them. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes PBd10 piercing damage and is restrained. While restrained in this way, the target is blinded. On a successful save, the target takes only half damage and isn’t restrained. A creature can use their action to make a DC 10 plus PB Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check, freeing themself or another creature within reach on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Retainer

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

