# Treant Revenant

**description**: When a mortal creature becomes a revenant, it retains its statistics except as described below. The creature loses any trait, such as Amphibious, that assumes a living physiology. Celestials, constructs, fiends, elementals, oozes, and undead can't become revenants. Find the template for creating revenants here: Revenant Template Traits False Appearance. While the revenant remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal tree. Regeneration. The revenant regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the revenant takes fire or radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the revenant’s next turn. The revenant’s body is destroyed only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Rejuvenation. When the revenant’s body is destroyed, its soul lingers. After 24 hours, the soul inhabits and animates another treant corpse on the same plane of existence and regains all its hit points. While the soul is bodiless, a wish spell can be used to force the soul to go to the afterlife and not return. Siege Monster. The revenant deals double damage to objects and structures. Turn Immunity. The revenant is immune to effects that turn undead. Vengeful Strikes. If the target hit by the revenant's melee attack is a creature against which the revenant has sworn vengeance, the target takes an extra 14 (4d6) weapon damage. Vengeful Tracker. The revenant knows the distance to and direction of any creature against which it seeks revenge, even if the creature and the revenant are on different planes of existence. If the creature being tracked by the revenant dies, the revenant knows. Actions Multiattack. The revenant makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 60/180 ft., one target. Hit: 29 (4d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Animate Trees (1/Day). The revenant magically animates one or two trees it can see within 60 feet of it. These trees have the same statistics as a treant, except they have Intelligence and Charisma scores of 1, they can’t speak, and they have only the Slam action option. An animated tree acts as an ally of the revenant. The tree remains animate for 1 day or until it dies; until the revenant dies or is more than 120 feet from the tree; or until the revenant takes a bonus action to turn it back into an inanimate tree. The tree then takes root if possible. Vengeful Glare. The revenant targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it and against which it has sworn vengeance. The target must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target is paralyzed until the revenant deals damage to it, or until the end of the revenant’s next turn. When the paralysis ends, the target is frightened of the revenant for 1 minute. The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if it can see the revenant, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: typically Neutral
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

