# Tristian (Level 10)

**description**: Tristian has no last name, nor does he have any real memories of his parents. He grew up in a Qadiran orphanage run by a small group of Sarenite priests, and they instilled within him a love of the Dawnflower that helped fill the void left by his missing parents. As he came of age, Tristian left the orphanage to travel the world, eager to spread Sarenrae’s blessings and to aid those who, like himself, came into this world seeking a better place in it. Traits Equipment. shield +1 , 2 holy symbols, a prayer book, 5 sticks of incense, vestments, a set of common clothes, splint armor, mace, light crossbow and 20 bolts, priests’ pack, 625 gp. Blessed Healer. The healing spells Tristian casts on others heals him as well. When he casts a spell of 1st level or higher that restores hit points to a creature other than himself, he regains hit points equal to 2 + the spell’s level. Destroy Undead. When an undead of CR 1/2 or lower fails its saving throw against Tristian’s Turn Undead feature, the creature is instantly destroyed. Disciple of Life. Whenever Tristian uses a spell of 1st level or higher to restore hit points to a creature, the creature regains additional hit points equal to 2 + the spell’s level. Divine Strike. Tristian has the ability to infuse his strikes with divine energy. Once on each of his turns when he hits a creature with a weapon attack, he can cause the attack to deal an extra 4 (1d8) radiant damage to the target. Spellcasting. Tristian is a 10th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): resistance, sacred flame, spare the dying 1st level (4 slots): bless, cure wounds, detect evil and good, guiding bolt, healing word, protection from evil and good, sanctuary 2nd level (3 slots): calm emotions, lesser restoration 3rd level (3 slots): remove curse, revivify 4th level (3 slots): beacon of hope, death ward, guardian of faith 5th level (2 slots): flame strike Actions Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d6–1) bludgeoning damage. Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) piercing damage. Channel Divinity (2/Day). Tristian has two options for his Channel Divinity: Preserve Life. Tristian can present his holy symbol to evoke healing energy that can restore a number of hit points equal to 50. Tristian chooses any creatures within 30 feet of him and divides those hit points among them. This feature can restore a creature to no more than half of its hit point maximum. He can’t use this feature on an undead or construct. Turn Undead. Tristian presents his holy symbol and speaks a prayer censuring the undead. Each undead that can see or hear him within 30 feet must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails its saving throw it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from Tristian as it can and it can’t willingly move to a square within 30 feet of him. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can only use the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action. Divine Intervention. Tristian can call on Sarenrae to intervene on his behalf when his need is great. He describes the assistance he needs and rolls percentile dice. If he rolls a number equal to or less than 10, Sarenrae intervenes. The GM chooses the nature of the intervention; the effect of any cleric spell or cleric domain spell would be appropriate. If Sarenrae intervenes, he can’t use this feature again for 7 days. Otherwise he can use it again after he finishes a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (aasimar)
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 17526

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

