# Trollkin Ragecaster

**description**: A thick-skinned trollkin wearing worn leather armor and a wolf fur cloak levitates. Hatred burns in its eyes as magic sparks around its arms. Deadly Children. Ragecasters are spellcasters born among trollkin clans. Like many spellcasters, ragecasters display their magical gifts at a young age, but then their great tempers begin to show. These tempers lead to devastating incidents: huts housing the child are struck by lightning, villagers who upset the child catch on fire, trees fall when the child cries, and so on. Once a trollkin child shows the signs of being a ragecaster, it is given to the clan's shaman to learn to control of its magic and temper safely away from others. Cursed Anger. Many trollkin clans believe ragecasters are the result of a curse put upon all trollkin after some ancient clan broke an oath to a powerful being. The legend differs from clan to clan, with some saying it was a god and others believing it was Baba Yaga. Whatever the origin, most trollkin view ragecasters as unpredictable, but a great asset in times of war. Blood Moon Gatherings. Trollkin ragecasters who have learned control of their magic and temper keep to themselves and live on the outskirts of their clans. However, when the moon turns red, it fills ragecasters with uncontrollable anger, and they gather to unleash their elemental wrath on anything in the area. Brutal Claws. A trollkin ragecaster's claw deals one extra die of its damage when the trollkin isn't ragecasting (included in the attack). Magic Resistance. The ragecaster has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects when it isn't ragecasting. Regeneration. The trollkin ragecaster regains 10 hp at the start of its turn. If the tagecaster takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the ragecaster's next turn. The ragecaster dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hp and doesn't regenerate. Thick Hide. The trollkin ragecasters skin is thick and tough, granting it a +1 bonus to Armor Class. This bonus is already factored into the trollkin's AC. Actions Multiattack. The trollkin ragecaster makes two Claw attacks or two Elemental Blast attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) slashing damage when not ragecasting, or 12 (2d8 + 3) slashing damage while ragecasting. Elemental Blast (Ragecasting Only). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage (the trollkin's choice). Spellcasting (Ragecasting Only). The trollkin ragecaster casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: thunderwave 3/day each: call lightning , fireball 1/day: fire shield Bonus Actions Ragecasting (3/Day). The trollkin ragecaster enters a special rage that allows it to channel the power of the elements for 1 minute. While ragecasting, the trollkin has disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws and gains a flying speed of 60 feet. The trollkin can end ragecasting as a bonus action. When the ragecasting ends, the trollkin descends 60 feet per round until it lands on a solid surface, and it can continue concentrating on a spell it cast while ragecasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Trollkin)
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

