# Tromokratis

**description**: Mythic Monsters This section describes three of Theros's most infamous terrors, beings whose might and dreadful deeds set them apart as menaces of legendary proportions. While many of Theros's greatest myths arise from storied terrors—like the hydra Polukranos or the dreaded titans—the monsters in this section have a feature that sets them apart: mythic traits. Mythic traits transform battles into truly legendary confrontations, well suited to the climactic battles at the ends of adventures or whole campaigns. Mythic traits are optional; they don't need to be used during combat with these monsters. If you so choose, you may simply ignore a monster's mythic trait and mythic actions. If you wish to increase a battle's stakes, though, using a monster's mythic trait results in some mid-battle twist that changes the way the monster behaves, restores its resources, or provides it with new actions to use. As a result, the battle becomes deadlier and rages on for longer than most combat encounters. Each monster features an "As a Mythic Encounter" section that highlights its mythic trait, notes how using it changes the difficulty of the encounter and the rewards, and includes read-aloud text you can use mid-battle to signal a terrifying shift in the conflict. Tromokratis Most krakens roam the seas, shattering hulls and scattering fleets, but the kraken Tromokratis notoriously vents its wrath on coastal settlements. Whether it acts at the command of the god Thassa or to sate its own hunger, Tromokratis numbers among the most feared threats in the sea, having no fixed lair and wandering where it will. In recent memory, the massive menace rose from the waves to topple the Pyrgnos, Meletis's great repository of scholarly knowledge. Since that day, the polis keeps a watch specifically for Tromokratis. Rough Waters. Tromokratis is a particularly cantankerous nadir kraken that has claimed all the sea as its territory. A tumultuous sea is often attributed to Tromokratis battling another kraken to assert its claim. Often, before a journey, sailors blow conch-shell horns in the belief that the sound will soothe nearby krakens. The Horn of Humenades. Legend speaks of a magic horn that the hero Humenades used in ancient times to summon Tromokratis to lay waste to a cursed city lost to evil ways. The horn was so powerful that, after the city was destroyed, Humenades took it to Tizerus and buried it under a stone near the palace of Erebos. Tromokratis as a Mythic Encounter Tromokratis numbers among the most powerful creatures a group of adventurers might face. If you wish to make an encounter with the kraken truly legendary, Tromokratis might use its Hearts of the Kraken mythic trait. When this happens, it calls upon a reserve of strength just as it appears to be vanquished. After its hearts are exposed, Tromokratis can choose one of its mythic actions when it uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when Tromokratis uses its Hearts of the Kraken trait: The titanic monster’s carapace cracks, revealing a pulsing, red-purple heart buried amid heaps of blubber and muscle. Fissures run across the beast’s ancient shell, revealing three other mighty, ichor-slick organs. The sea terror thrashes, channeling pain into fury. Fighting Tromokratis as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 26 creatures in one encounter. Award a party 180,000 XP for defeating Tromokratis after it uses Hearts of the Kraken.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity (titan)
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 5432
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Mythic Odysseys of Theros

