# Trostani

**description**: The Selesnya guildmaster is an amalgamation of three dryads in body, will, and soul. Each dryad’s body extends from a central trunk, so while they possess independent minds, they share a single name­—Trostani—and a single life force. Usually Trostani communicates the will of the Worldsoul with one voice, but she retains three distinct personalities that embody the three parts of the Selesnyan ideal: order, life, and harmony. In the midst of increasing tensions on Ravnica, the three personalities have recently been at odds over how best to navigate the conclave through such difficult times. Trostani spends most of her time in the towering tree of Vitu-Ghazi, the Selesnya guildhall. There she communes with Mat’Selesnya and with the dryads who lead individual Selesnya communities across Ravnica. Trostani’s Traits Ideal: “In each of us is the strength of all of us.” Bond: “All will come to the warm embrace of the Conclave.” Flaw: “I have nothing but anger for those who break the bonds of the community and leave our embrace.” Innate Spellcasting. Trostani’s innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 24). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: dispel magic, druidcraft 3/day each: bless, conjure animals, giant insect, moonbeam, plant growth, spike growth, suggestion 1/day each: conjure fey, mass cure wounds Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Trostani fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Trostani has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. Trostani’s weapon attacks are magical. Speak with Beasts and Plants. Trostani can communicate with beasts and plants as if they shared a language. Tree Stride. Once on her turn, Trostani can use 10 feet of her movement to step magically into one living tree within her reach and emerge from a second living tree within 60 feet of the first tree, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second tree. Both trees must be Large or bigger. Actions Multiattack. Trostani takes three actions: she uses Constrict and Touch of Order, and she casts a spell with a casting time of 1 action. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 19). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. Trostani can grapple no more than three targets at a time. Touch of Order. Melee Spell Attack: +16 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 23 (3d8 + 10) radiant damage, and Trostani can choose one magic item she can see in the target’s possession. Unless it’s an artifact, the item’s magic is suppressed until the start of Trostani’s next turn. Wrath of Mat’Selesnya (Recharge 5–6). Trostani conjures a momentary whirl of branches and vines at a point she can see within 60 feet of her. Each creature in a 30-foot cube on that point must make a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage and 21 (6d6) slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions Trostani can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Trostani regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Voice of Harmony. Trostani makes one melee attack, with advantage on the attack roll. Voice of Life. Trostani bestows 20 temporary hit points on another creature she can see within 120 feet of her. Voice of Order. Trostani casts dispel magic . Chorus of the Conclave (Costs 2 Actions). Trostani casts suggestion . This counts as one of her daily uses of the spell. Awaken Grove Guardians (Costs 3 Actions). Trostani animates one or two trees she can see within 120 feet of her, causing them to uproot themselves and become awakened trees (see the Monster Manual for their stat blocks) for 1 minute or until Trostani uses a bonus action to end the effect. These trees understand Druidic and obey Trostani’s spoken commands, but can’t speak. If she issues no commands to them, the trees do nothing but follow her and take the Dodge action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fey
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 7
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Guildmasters' Guide to Ravnica

