# True Camazotz

**description**: The camazotz is a demon that resembles a giant-sized feral humanoid with vampire batlike features - oversized ears, fanged mouth, arms and legs that end in talon-like claws, and powerful wings spreading from its back. It has an affinity for bats and werebats and often has these in as minions. The camazotz patrols the skies of the Abyss, serving as scouts for more powerful demons and demon lords. If left on its own, the camazotz only lives to destroy and consume, hunting weaker demons if it can't find other more interesting prey. True Camazotz. Camazotz was said to have been a bloodthirsty chieftain who enjoyed sacrificing his captured enemies to his gods. This included a monstrous ritual of him wearing ceremonial armor that made him resemble a giant bat and would drink the blood of his dying victims before ripping their heads off with his bare hands. When he could no longer find foes to sacrifice, he would secretly have his people captured and sacrificed. Eventually, his evil deeds were discovered and after a vicious revolt that him mortally wounded, Camazotz prayed to his many gods for mercy. A demon prince answered, and in return for Camazotz's soul and eternal servitude, he would be able to continue what he enjoyed doing the most - killing. Camazotz agreed and as soon as his soul reached the Abyss, he was transformed into the first true demon of his kind and now serves as a general for the demon prince. Since then, many others who shared the same despicable taste for blood and sacrifice have become camazotz demons. A True Camazotz's Lair A true camazotz's lair is often a deep, treacherous cavern or a giant dead tree within a dismal grove in the center of a haunted forest. Thick, noxious guano covers the surface of the lair's grounds. The true camazotz attracts the company of all manner of bats, giant bats, and werebats. These creatures revere and are subservient to the true camazotz. The challenge rating of a true camazotz increases to 21 (33,000 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the camazotz takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the camazotz can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Swarming, biting tiny bats magically fill a 40-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the camazotz can see within 120 feet of it. The sphere spreads around corners. The sphere remains for 1 minute, until the camazotz uses this lair action again, becomes incapacitated, or when the camazotz dies. The sphere's area is lightly obscured and is difficult terrain. When the area appears, each creature in it must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. A creature other than camazotz takes 10 (4d4) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this saving throw when it enters the sphere's area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. Guano within 90 feet of the camazotz surge outward like a pseudopod. Any creature on the ground within 20 feet of the guano must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is blind. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the poisoned condition on itself on a success. While in dim light or darkness, the camatzots teleports up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness. Traits Fear Aura. Any creature hostile to the camazotz that starts its turn within 20 feet of the camazotz must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, unless the camazotz is incapacitated. On a failed save, the creature is frightened until the start of its next turn. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the camazotz's Fear Aura for the next 24 hours. Fell Swoop. If the camazotz is flying and dives at least 30 feet toward a target and then hits with a Claw and has advantage on the attack, the attack deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage to the target. If this attack reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target dies and its head is dismembered. Flyby. The camazotz doesn't provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach. Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the camazotz fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The camazotz has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. While in sunlight, the camazotz has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. The camazotz makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the camazotz regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Sonic Screech (Recharge 6). The camazotz emits a deadly screech. Each creature within 30 feet of it that can hear it and that isn't a bat or demon must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 45 (10d8) thunder damage, is deafened for 1 minute, and is stunned until the end of the camazot's next turn. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened or stunned. Summon Bats (1/Day). The camazots summons 3d4 + 3 giant bats or swarm of bats). The bats appear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of it. The bats act right after the camazotz on the same initiative count and fight until they’re destroyed. They disappear when the camazotz is destroyed. Legendary Actions The camazotz can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The camazotz regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The camazotz makes a Claw attack. Piercing Shriek (Costs 2 Actions). The camazotz targets one creature within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target takes 18 (4d8) thunder damage, is deafened for 1 minute, and is stunned until the end of the camazot's next turn. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened or stunned. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The camazotz beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the camazotz must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The camazotz can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Fiend (Demon)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

