# Trumpet Archon

**description**: Trumpet archons serve as official emissaries and heralds of the gods of Mount Celestia. They appear as winged attractive bald humanoids with emerald skin and as their name implies, carry gleaming silver trumpets known as buisines. Like owl archons, trumpet archons are typically encountered outside the plane of Mount Celestia as they are often sent on important diplomatic missions and usually escorted by sword and justice archons. Trumpet Blaster. Trumpet archons disdain combat and will always try to find ways to avoid it. If pressed to fight, however, they will use their spells only for defense. If given no choice, they will wield their buisines as devastating war mauls. What makes trumpet archons dangerous, though, are their trumpet blasts, which can paralyze or stun foes. Archons The mighty archons are exalted celestial champions who maintain peace, uphold justice, and serve the angels and deities of Arcadia, Bytopia, and the Seven Heavens of Mount Celestia. Benevolent Guardians . Whereas angels act more as agents, commanders, and generals, archons fill the role of soldiers, scouts, and support specialists. They protect the innocent and defenseless and aid the wounded and sick. They despise and stand against malevolent supernatural creatures such as demons, devils, yugoloths, and evil undead. They capture and bring to justice powerful creatures who have performed depraved and despicable acts. Unfortunately, their unwavering sense of righteousness often leaves them vulnerable to manipulation and conflict. Blessed Champions . Archons never willingly use violence unless it is necessary. However, if combat is unavoidable, archons can be a terrifying thing to behold as they become justice and vengeance personified. They radiate an aura of menace that can sap the will of their foes. Archons are expert battle tacticians, able to teleport at will and cast powerful divine spells that can aid allies and banish foes. In addition to their impressive powers, they are also fearless, tireless, resistant to most attacks, and can’t be charmed. Divine Agents . While they rarely leave Mount Celestia, archons can be encountered anywhere, even in the Lower Planes. They frequently travel to the Material Plane on a variety of missions, acting as couriers, messengers, spies, or marshals. Archons have been known to assist adventurers, especially if they are favored by their deities. Types of Archons . There are eight major types of archons, each with different characteristics and abilities. The hound archon, justice archon, and lantern archons are the most numerous ones, and make up the bulk of the archon army, serving as foot soldiers, guards, and scouts. The owl archon, trumpet archon, and warden archon are specialists, while the sword archon and the throne archon act as military officers. Immortal Nature . An archon doesn't require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Aura of Menace. The archon emanates an aura of menace in a 30-foot radius. The first time any enemy creature enters the aura or starts its turn there during a battle, the creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of the archon for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. Magic Resistance. The archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The archon makes three Buisine attacks. Buisine. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 13 (3d8) radiant damage. Spellcasting. The archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: aid (4th level), bless, continual flame, detect evil and good 3/day each: banishment, magic circle, mass cure wounds, raise dead 1/day each: blade barrier, heal Teleport. The archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Herald's Call (Recharge 5-6). The archon plays its buisine to create a sound of utter clarity and piercing beauty. Each non-celestial creature within 120 feet that can hear the archon must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed for 1 minute. A creature charmed in this way is paralyzed. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the archon's Herald's Call for the next 24 hours. Buisine Blast (1/Day). The archon blows its buisine to emit a thunderous blast in a 60-foot cone that is audible 600 feet away. Each creature in the cone must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 54 (12d8) thunder damage and is deafened for 1 minute. If a target's saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is also stunned until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t deafened. Creatures and objects made of glass or crystal have disadvantage on the saving throw and take 108 (24d8) thunder damage instead of 54 (12d8).

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Celestial
- Alignment: typically Lawful Good
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

