# Tserka Worker

**description**: "It was the power drain into the sub-basement that tipped them off. They thought they had a fiber breach, but when they got down there, they found a tap and traced it to its source. That is when they called me in to mediate the release of the maintenance crew. The Tserka, what you people call “bugs”, have no compunction about squatting on property not their own, but they are a secretive bunch and do not take kindly to trespassers. It was a big colony, mostly those little ones with the big liquid black eyes chittering all around, but there were dozens of those big warriors. They were armed with a motley mix of weapons seemingly pieced together from the tech of half a dozen races, but I knew there was no tactical option to free our people. One of the little ones met me, backed by a phalanx of their guardian caste. He tried immediately to get into my mind, but I was ready for that. I smiled as I watched his antennae shiver in annoyance, and his facial plates moved just enough to bare his claw-like mouth parts. My little victory was hollow though. I have dealt with tserka for 20 years, and in all that time I have never felt I got the better end of a deal. I knew this was going to be expensive." — Kalon Tang, human ambassador. Tserka Crucible-Grown. Unlike most species, who discovered the crucibles after achieving space travel, the tserka evolved from humble pests that infiltrated the tortuous tunnels of one of the massive crucible structures and struggled to survive in the sorium-infused ecosystem. The identity of ancient culture that accidentally introduced their primitive ancestors to the crucibles is lost even to the tserka. They are natural scroungers, merchants, and tinkers, always on the lookout for a better deal or some edge over their competitors, while fanatically loyal to their own insular groups. Their societies are split between worker and guardian castes, who often disagree about the best methods to ensure the safety of their colonies, but they work together tirelessly to that end. Stealthy Colonists. The tserka have spread far from their crucibles of origin. Because their cities usually consist of miles of subterranean passages and chambers and artificial mountains of soil, their presence is often underestimated. Their cities are built around jealously guarded caches of sorium, which enable them to transplant the ecosystem in which they evolved. They are covetous of the technology of other cultures, and are often found with a hodgepodge mix of items. Tserka Worker Members of the worker and merchant castes are small of stature, but large in personality. Their leathery carapace ranges from pale blue to green, with wide black eyes and short antennae that can fold back into grooves along the sides of their skull. Their mouth parts are normally hidden from view by a sheath of flesh. Tserka Guardian The caste responsible for the protection of the home colony, guardians are large and strong, though not as wily as the workers. Their carapace tends toward dark reds and purples around the head and shoulders, becoming paler green over the rest of the body. Their antennae are thinner than those of the workers, and their large tusk-like mandibles are always visible.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (tserka)
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 1/4

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

