# Tundra Giant Khan

**description**: The tundra giants are a nomadic tribe of steppe-dwelling warrior giants. They stand between 12-13-feet tall and have pale, waxy, bluish and grayish skin. They are often led by a khan, a cunning warrior general and tribal chief. Crafty Soldiers. Tundra giants are known for their fierce fighting skills and strategic battle tactics. They are experienced in siege warfare and have been known to capture cities with ease with the use of their massive war machines. If not for their extremely low birth rate, tundra giants could have possibly conquered more lands of men. Because of their success in the battlefield, they are frequently hired by other races as mercenaries. Accomplished Hunters. The harsh climate and sparse vegetation of the tundra steppe made it difficult to sustain agriculture and herding, so hunting and raiding are a vital source of sustenance for the tundra giants. Through their skillful use of bows and spears, tundra giants are able to hunt a variety of wild animals such as boar, ibex, mammoth, moose, and reindeer. Stories of great hunts of frost worms, remorhazes, and white dragons were told in songs, poems and epics passed down from generation to generation. Ruthless Raiders. Raiding humanoid settlements is what the tundra giants live for, however, as this brings spoils of war. They make use of psychological warfare and terror tactics in order to break the morale of their targets. Led by their khan and shamans, tundra giants implement various tactics, such as feigned retreats, diversions, and surprise attacks, in order to maximize their success in battle. Captured prisoners are either eaten or turned into slaves while treasure such as coin and jewelry were divided amongst the warriors after the khan’s share. Giant-Kin Giant-kin are the smaller, distantly-related cousins of the true giants. Most look like their brutish kin but some resemble large versions of the common humanoid races. Despite their variations, giant-kin unmistakably embody the essence of true giants, holding a pervasive belief in the innate weakness and inferiority of humanoids. Giant-kin usually form small clans or tribes. They are often encountered working as mercenaries or hired guards. Traits Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Greatsword attacks. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage. Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Bonus Actions Canny Command. The giant targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the giant, the target can use its reaction to make one weapon attack and gain advantage on the attack roll, move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack, move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks, or move up to its speed. Reactions Crafty Maneuver. When an ally of the giant hits a target with a melee attack and the target is within 10 feet of the giant, the giant can move up to 10 feet toward the target and if it is within reach, make one melee attack against it. Alternatively, the giant can move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks from the target. Legendary Actions The giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The giant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The giant moves up to its speed. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The giant makes a melee or ranged attack. Inspire Allies (Costs 3 Actions). Each ally within 60 feet of the giant gains 7 (2d6) temporary hit points and advantage to saving throws made against being charmed and frightened. The effects last until the start of the giant's next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

