# Tundra Giant Shaman

**description**: The tundra giants are a nomadic tribe of steppe-dwelling warrior giants. They stand between 12-13-feet tall and have pale, waxy, bluish and grayish skin. They are often led by a khan, a cunning warrior general and tribal chief. Crafty Soldiers. Tundra giants are known for their fierce fighting skills and strategic battle tactics. They are experienced in siege warfare and have been known to capture cities with ease with the use of their massive war machines. If not for their extremely low birth rate, tundra giants could have possibly conquered more lands of men. Because of their success in the battlefield, they are frequently hired by other races as mercenaries. Accomplished Hunters. The harsh climate and sparse vegetation of the tundra steppe made it difficult to sustain agriculture and herding, so hunting and raiding are a vital source of sustenance for the tundra giants. Through their skillful use of bows and spears, tundra giants are able to hunt a variety of wild animals such as boar, ibex, mammoth, moose, and reindeer. Stories of great hunts of frost worms, remorhazes, and white dragons were told in songs, poems and epics passed down from generation to generation. Ruthless Raiders. Raiding humanoid settlements is what the tundra giants live for, however, as this brings spoils of war. They make use of psychological warfare and terror tactics in order to break the morale of their targets. Led by their khan and shamans, tundra giants implement various tactics, such as feigned retreats, diversions, and surprise attacks, in order to maximize their success in battle. Captured prisoners are either eaten or turned into slaves while treasure such as coin and jewelry were divided amongst the warriors after the khan’s share. Giant-Kin Giant-kin are the smaller, distantly-related cousins of the true giants. Most look like their brutish kin but some resemble large versions of the common humanoid races. Despite their variations, giant-kin unmistakably embody the essence of true giants, holding a pervasive belief in the innate weakness and inferiority of humanoids. Giant-kin usually form small clans or tribes. They are often encountered working as mercenaries or hired guards. Actions Multiattack. The giant makes two Quarterstaff attacks or uses Arctic Bolt twice. Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage or 12 (2d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage if wielded with two hands, plus 3 (1d6) cold damage. Arctic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d8) cold damage and the target's speed is reduced to 10 feet until the end of the giant's next turn. Arctic Gale (Recharge 5–6). The giant magically emits a powerful line of freezing wind 60 feet long and 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 22 (5d8) cold damage and, if the target is Large or smaller, is pushed up to 15 feet away and knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone. Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14): At will: druidcraft, guidance, mending 3/day each: cure wounds, sleet storm, spike growth 1/day each: cone of cold, ice storm Reactions Crafty Maneuver. When an ally of the giant hits a target with a melee attack and the target is within 10 feet of the giant, the giant can move up to 10 feet toward the target and if it is within reach, make one melee attack against it. Alternatively, the giant can move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks from the target.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

