# Tuned Koboldzilla

**description**: This machine should not function. Every rivet, bolt, and staple that holds the koboldzilla together is brimming with belief. The metal ignores its maximum shearing load, the wood forgets that it should spontaneously combust, and gravity forms an anomaly around its ridiculously armoured carapace.Burgeoning Sentience. Before it becomes godlike, the koboldzilla is aware. It causes armour plating to come loose in the nick of time to protect its kobold pilots, and its growing will causes objects for miles around to begin working again with the most rudimentary percussive maintenance. With the belief that only martyrdom can bequest, the koboldzilla is a hair’s breadth from apotheososis. A Koboldzilla’s Lair The koboldzilla’s lair is unique in that it is created by the concentrated belief of all its kobold pilots (or, in its mythic state, its belief in itself). Regional Effects The region containing the koboldzilla’s lair is buoyed by the abundant belief, which creates one or more of the following effects: Tapping a device and saying “she hasn’t let me down yet” ensures that the apparatus in question won’t fail until the very last moment while within 6 miles of the lair. The mending cantrip and fixit spell (see page 503) have their casting times halved within 1 mile of the lair. When automatons and constructs within 1 mile of the lair are healed, they regain twice as many hit points. Lair Actions Until the koboldzilla is destroyed, the kobolds’ collective belief manifests as the following lair actions. The DCs and damage of the lair actions depend on the level at which you run the hunt. Variable Lair Action Statistics Hunt Level VDC Vdam 7th 14 7 (2d6) 14th 16 14 (4d6) 20th 18 28 (8d6) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the koboldzilla takes one of the following lair actions; the koboldzilla can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row. See the table above for the damage and save DC. Airstrike. A jetpack-powered kobold bursts out of the ground and proceeds to drop sticks of dynamite in a broad path before its engine backfires and it flies off into a nearby building. Each creature in a 10-foot-wide, 50-foot-long line must make a VDC Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is knocked prone and takes Vdam thunder damage. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. Chittering Laughter. The infectious laughter of ultra-zealous kobolds echoes around the lair. Each non-kobold creature in the lair, other than the koboldzilla, must succeed on a VDC Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of all kobolds and the koboldzilla until the start of initiative count 20 on the next round. Swarm of Kobolds. Dozens of kobolds erupt from tiny tunnels, grabbing at the adventurers’ various accoutrements, before disappearing back down the holes. Each non-kobold creature in the lair, other than the koboldzilla, must make a VDC Dexterity saving throw. On a success, the creature loses one nonmagical item of its choice that it isn’t wearing. On a failure, the creature loses one magical or nonmagical item of the DM’s choice that isn’t being worn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 27

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

