# Two-Headed Adult Black Dragon

**description**: Multi-headed Dragons Multi-headed dragons, sometimes called polycephalic dragons by scholars and wizards, are extremely rare and dangerous dragons. Unlike the dracohydras that were created through arcane experiments, multiheaded or polycephalic dragons were either already born that way or created by Tiamat herself. Multiple Personalities. Each head of the dragon can share the same personalities or are entirely different from each other. One can be dominant over the others, or each head sees the other ones as their equals. Find the templates for multi-headed dragons here: Two-Headed Dragon Template Three-Headed Dragon Template Favored Dragon of Tiamat Template Traits Amphibious. The dragon can breathe air and water. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Multi-Headed. The dragon has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious. For each head the dragon has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks. Actions Multiattack. The dragon can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes two Claw attacks and one Tail attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage. Bite . Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) acid damage. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Acid Breath (Recharge 4–6). The dragon exhales acid in a 60-­foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 54 (12d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Legendary Actions The dragon can take 4 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The dragon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Detect. The dragon makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Acid Breath (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon uses Acid Breath, if available. Bite (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon makes a Bite attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (2d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

