# Typhon

**description**: A monstrous, giant, living atrocity that towers over mountains and Titans alike. A being that can truly be described as a natural disaster given physical form. Such is Typhon, the Father of Monsters. Born from Gaia, primordial goddess of Earth and Tartarus, the primordial entity of The Pit. The purpose of this union was a last-ditch effort by the earthen goddess to remove the gods from the ruling seat of the cosmos, but was also a way to seek revenge for the defeat of her children, the Gigantes, at the hands of the Olympians and their allies. The result of this unholy coupling was the greatest foe to ever exist, a bane on the existence of the gods and the only creature to have ever come close to tearing the gods down from the heavens. If there was one foe that the immortal rulers of the world might be intimidated by, it would be this monster. Bigger than any giant, dragon or Titan, it is said in poems of old that his head brushed the stars, his legs had the form of infinitely long snake tails, with wings so massive that their shadow would stretch from one end of the horizon to the other. Huge coils of snakes sprout from his body, emitting a hellish hissing sound that terrified all living creatures who heard it. A gruff bearded face, with wild unkempt hair were the only aspects of this being to resemble men or the gods at all. His eyes flashed with a bright fire that expressed the hatred he inherited from his parents for everything the gods had built. Typhon challenged the gods of Olympus, striking fear into their hearts and forcing them to retreat in their initial confrontation. This left Zeus as the lone contender against the Father of Monsters. A brutal confrontation followed, in which Zeus was defeated and had his tendons ripped away by the monstrous behemoth. However, Hermes managed to recover the lost body parts of the King of Olympus and restored him to the height of his power. Now ready for a rematch against Typhon, Zeus primed his lightning bolts and engaged the abomination in a cataclysmic fight that changed the shape of the land around them. Finally, the thunderer struck the monster with a bolt so powerful that it melted the earth and scorched the surrounding mountains. With victory claimed, the King of Olympus cast Typhon into Tartarus, the realm and body of the monster’s own father. It is said that Mount Etna was placed on top of the location where the Father of Monsters was banished from. Its ever-present rumbling acting as a reminder of the wrath and power of the creature many would start to call the Bane of Olympus. The Originator of Monsters. Typhon married a female monster by the name of Echidna, who bore many monstrous children over the ages. It is said that every time a new monster species spawns in the world, it is the influence of these terrible beings at work. Weakened, but Everlasting. The Father of Monsters may have been defeated, but he was never killed. It is suspected that he shares an immortal nature with many other beings who originate from the primordial gods of the world. However, this means that there may be one day where he claws his way out of the cruel prison that Zeus placed him in. He may not be as powerful as he was in his prime, but even so he poses a massive threat to the delicate balance of the world. Typhon as a Mythic Encounter Typhon is a walking apocalypse. No one is safe from this unmatched monstrosity, whether they reside on land, sea or even the sky. If you wish to make an encounter with the greatest monster of all time truly legendary, Typhon might use his Father's Frenzy trait. Typhon unleashes part of the power he tapped into for the purpose of the destruction of Olympus eons ago, healing his body and bolstering his power to a completely new level. When this happens, Typhon can choose one of his mythic actions when he uses a legendary action. Read or paraphrase the following text when Typhon uses his Father's Frenzy trait: The Father of Monsters recoils A behemoth with no equal falls flat on his back. The sound of the myriad snakes on his body hissing in pain, followed by a guttural growl of pain fills the air like the crack of thunder. However, the hissing and growling stops as the earth starts rumbling. A humongous claw reaches out to the sky and the clouds turn dark, as if glowering at the Father of Monsters. Laughter is what follows. Loud, boisterous and with an undertone of malice. Almost mocking in the way it was projected. The rumbling grows stronger and the body of Typhon lurches up, wingspan creating a shadow big enough to cover a fortress. The eyes flashing with fire focus on the culprits behind his struggle. A hint of respect toward their power as simple mortals was clear, followed by a bursting anger as they chose to be his opponents this day. Fighting Typhon as a mythic encounter is equivalent to taking on two CR 30 creatures in one encounter. Award a party an additional 155,000 XP (310,000 XP total) for defeating him after his Father's Frenzy trait activates. Monstrosities Monsters have been common amongst the obstacles of heroes since ancient times. These monsters are often born from terrible primordial beings and the damning hubris of the gods. Traits Father's Frenzy (Recharges after a short or long Rest). If Typhon is reduced to 0 hit points, he doesn't die or fall unconscious. Instead, he regains 750 hit points. In addition, Typhon recharges his Meteoric Crash and regains any expended uses of Legendary Resistance. Additionally, Typhon can now use the options in the “Mythic Actions” section for 1 hour. Award a party an additional 155,000 XP (310,000 XP total) for defeating Typhon after her Abomination's Loathing activates. Legendary Resistance (5/day). If Typhon fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Deadly Critical. Typhon scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20 and rolls the damage dice three times, instead of twice. Force of Nature. Typhon can take one reaction per turn, rather than one per round. Magic Resistance. Typhon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. Typhon's weapon attacks are magical. Primordial Poison. Poison damage dealt by Typhon ignores resistance to poison damage and immunity is treated as resistance instead. Regeneration. Typhon regains 30 hit points at the start of his turn. If Typhon takes lightning damage, this trait doesn't take effect at the start of his next turn. Siege Monster. Typhon deals double damage to objects and structures. Toxic Whirlwind. A magical aura of poison surrounds Typhon in a 15-foot radius. At the start of each of his turns, any other creature in the aura takes 14 (4d6) poison damage. Actions Multiattack. Typhon can make five attacks with any of his weapons. He can replace a single weapon attack with a flames of rancor attack. Bane's Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 32 (4d10 + 10) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) force damage. Viper's Hold. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 25 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (4d6 + 10) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) poison damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 20). If the target is huge or smaller, it is also restrained until the grapple ends. While grappling the target, Typhon has advantage on attack rolls against the target. Typhon can grapple up to 6 creatures in this way. Flames of Rancor. Typhon breathes fire in a line 300 feet long and 15 feet wide. Each creature in the area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire ignites any flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried. Meteoric Crash (Recharge 6). Typhon flies at least 40 feet and dives into a target space on the ground, creating a massive explosion of fire, rock, and brimstone. This sprays rock and fire into the air and causes the ground to break and form a crater. Each creature standing within that 40-foot radius area centered on Typhon must make a DC 27 Strength saving throw. A creature takes 35 (12d6) fire damage and 35 (12d6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone on a failed save, or half as much damage and is not knocked prone on a successful one. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain and is engulfed in flames for one minute. A creature that starts its turn in the area while it is still in flames takes 10 (3d6) fire damage. Legendary Actions Typhon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Typhon regains spent legendary actions at the start of their turn. Move. Typhon can move up to his speed without provoking attacks of opportunity. Attack. Typhon can make a Viper's Hold attack. Mythic Actions If Typhon’s Father's Frenzy trait has activated in the last hour, he can use the options below as legendary actions. Monstrous Barrage (costs 2 Actions). Typhon can make a Bane's Claw attack and a Viper's Hold attack. Storm of the Father (costs 3 Actions). Typhon beats his humongous wings, creating a brutal whirlwind around himself in a 60-foot radius. Each creature in that area must make a DC 27 Dexterity saving throw, taking 67 (15d8) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. All huge or smaller creatures are also sent flying 30 feet in a random direction, regardless of passing or failing the save.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 29804
- Challenge Rating: 30

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Kit Gryloc's Guide to Myths and Monsters

