# Tyrant Archon

**description**: Fallen throne archons are extremely rare, but they do exist. When Zariel was still a solar and led an army into Avernus, she was accompanied by a squadron of archons dedicated and loyal to her. Almost all were slain when Zariel's forces were defeated. Those who survived, including a few throne archons, succumbed to the corrupting influence of Asmodeus after Zariel accepted the offer of the Lord of Nessus. Now known as tyrant archons, these devils serve as chief lieutenants to Zariel and other archdevils. Corrupting Force. Tyrant archons can rival the power of the mighty angels. In combat, they can strike with powerful melee attacks and unleash devastating spells in the same turn. Their dreaded corrupting gaze can turn good creatures into puppets they can manipulate. Tyrant archons lead battalions of devils in the Blood War, and are always attended to by other fallen archons and lesser devils. Fallen Archons An archon always answers to a higher being: a superior archon, angel, and always to a Mount Celestial deity. It is expected to abide by and enforce the laws of its god. There are rare instances that an archon, just like its angel brethren, for some reason or another, would deviate from the stringent rules set for it. Depending on the gravity of its actions, an archon may be stripped of its station, banished from Mount Celestia, or even imprisoned. Such an archon has become a fallen archon. Fallen from Grace. Most fallen archons who are banished willingly live out their lives as mortals in the Material Plane, accepting it as a form of penitence. However, a few, having been twisted by their perverse pride, greed, and selfishness, become subversive and hide out in the Lower Planes. As they simmer in anger and hate, they become prone to temptation. Diabolical Transformation. Agents representing archdevils from the Nine Hells offer fallen archons a place where they can be respected, given power, and a chance to punish those that have wronged them. Those that accept sign a diabolical contract that binds their souls to Asmodeus and the Nine Hells. They transform and become corrupted shadows of their former selves and ultimately become devils. They lose some of their archon abilities but gain new, fiendish ones. Agents of the Nine Hells. Most fallen archons become soldiers of archdevils that recruited them. Others become assassins, agents, and spies. No matter their role, fallen archons are no longer bound by their conscience or morality and have become cruel, merciless, and unforgiving. Immortal Nature. A fallen archon doesn’t require food, drink, or sleep. Traits Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the fallen archon’s darkvision. Improved Critical. The fallen archon's weapon attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Corrupting Gaze. Provided the fallen archon isn't incapacitated, if a non-evil creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the fallen archon and the two of them can see each other, the fallen archon can force the creature to make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed by the fallen archon until the start of its next turn. While charmed in this way, a creature suffers the effect of the dominate monster spell without making a saving throw and treats all enemies of the fallen archon as its enemies. The fallen archon doesn't need to concentrate on the spell. A creature that isn't surprised can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If it does so, it can't see the fallen archon until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If it looks at the fallen archon in the meantime, it must immediately make the save. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the fallen archon's Corrupting Gaze for the next 24 hours. Magic Resistance. The fallen archon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The fallen archon makes three Greatsword attacks, or makes one Greatsword attack and casts one spell that takes 1 action to cast. Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) slashing damage plus 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. Spellcasting. The fallen archon casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17): At will: bane, darkness, detect evil and good, invisibility (self only) 3/day each: banishment, contagion, dispel magic, insect plague 1/day each: destructive wave, divine word, symbol (hopelessness) Teleport. The fallen archon magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying and any creatures it has grappled, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fiend (Devil)
- Alignment: typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 16

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

