# Ulitharid Mastermind

**description**: An ulitharid mastermind is an extremely brilliant tactician, schemer, and manipulator. It does its work behind the scenes, secretly instructing its minions and underlings to do the dirty, hands-on tasks, while also influencing other powerful beings, such as other ulitharid and illithids, to work towards its goals, knowingly or unknowingly. Paranoid Schemer. Due to its nature, an ulitharid mastermind is very careful in its actions, for fear that the elder brain will find it a threat, and end its life early. Because of this, it is very paranoid and tends to get rid of any loose ends, consuming their brains to leave no trace of evidence that the elder brain might discover. Traits Creature Sense. The ulitharid is aware of the presence of creatures within 2 miles of it that have an Intelligence score of 4 or higher. It knows the distance and direction to each creature, as well as each creature's Intelligence score, but can't sense anything else about it. A creature protected by a mind blank spell, a nondetection spell, or similar magic can't be perceived in this manner. Cunning Presence. An ally that starts is turn within 30 feet of this ulitharid and can see and hear this ulitharid can take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action as a bonus action, provided the ulitharid isn't incapacitated. Magic Resistance. The ulitharid has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Psionic Hub. If an elder brain establishes a psychic link with the ulitharid, the elder brain can form a psychic link with any other creature the ulitharid can detect using its Creature Sense. Any such link ends if the creature falls outside the telepathy ranges of both the ulitharid and the elder brain. The ulitharid can maintain its psychic link with the elder brain regardless of the distance between them, so long as they are both on the same plane of existence. If the ulitharid is more than 5 miles away from the elder brain, it can end the psychic link at any time (no action required). Actions Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 28 (4d10 + 6) psychic damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 14) and must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until this grapple ends. Extract Brain. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid grappled by the ulitharid. Hit: 55 (10d10) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the ulitharid kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain. Mind Blast (Recharge 5–6). The ulitharid magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or take 32 (4d12 + 6) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting (Psionics). The ulitharid casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: detect thoughts, levitate 1/day (each): confusion, dominate monster, eyebite, feeblemind, mass suggestion, plane shift (self only), project image, scrying, telekinesis Bonus Actions Cunning Action. The ulitharid takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Cunning Insight (Recharge 5–6). The ulitharid chooses a target it can see within 30 feet of it. The ulitharid and up to 3 creatures of its choice have advantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws against the target. In addition, the target has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls made against the ulitharid. These effects last until the start of the ulitharid's next turn. Reactions Misdirection. When the ulitharid is targeted by an attack while a creature within 5 feet of it is granting it cover against that attack, it can have the attack target that creature instead.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

