# Ulitharid Supreme

**description**: The most powerful ulitharid is given the title of Supreme and acts as the right hand of the illithid colony's elder brain. It rarely leaves the safety of its colony, preferring to act as the ulitharid’s leader in an administrative function. If it does have to leave, it is always accompanied by a couple of lesser ulitharids and more than a dozen illithid bodyguards. However, this is more for show than necessity, as the ulitharid supreme is very capable of defending itself, even against powerful foes, such as high level adventurers or giths. Constant Threat. Despite how loyal it is to the elder brain, the ulitharid supreme knows that it has grown too much in power and will be recognized as a threat by the elder brain and its minions. It will thus prepare for contingencies, either to escape and break off from the colony, or to destroy and replace the elder brain as the colony's new leader. Traits Creature Sense. The ulitharid is aware of the presence of creatures within 2 miles of it that have an Intelligence score of 4 or higher. It knows the distance and direction to each creature, as well as each creature's Intelligence score, but can't sense anything else about it. A creature protected by a mind blank spell, a nondetection spell, or similar magic can't be perceived in this manner. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the ulitharid fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The ulitharid has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Psionic Hub. If an elder brain establishes a psychic link with the ulitharid, the elder brain can form a psychic link with any other creature the ulitharid can detect using its Creature Sense. Any such link ends if the creature falls outside the telepathy ranges of both the ulitharid and the elder brain. The ulitharid can maintain its psychic link with the elder brain regardless of the distance between them, so long as they are both on the same plane of existence. If the ulitharid is more than 5 miles away from the elder brain, it can end the psychic link at any time (no action required). Actions Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 28 (4d10 + 6) psychic damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 14) and must succeed on a DC 19 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned until this grapple ends. Extract Brain. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid grappled by the ulitharid. Hit: 55 (10d10) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the ulitharid kills the target by extracting and devouring its brain. Mind Blast (Recharge 5–6). The ulitharid magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw or take 32 (4d12 + 6) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting (Psionics). The ulitharid casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: detect thoughts, mirror image, levitate 3/day each: confusion, scrying, telekinesis 1/day each: dominate monster, eyebite, feeblemind, mass suggestion, plane shift (self only), project image Legendary Actions The ulitharid can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The ulitharid regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Tentacles. The ulitharid makes one attack with its Tentacles. Cast Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The ulitharid uses Spellcasting. Extract Brain (Costs 2 Actions). The ulitharid uses Extract Brain.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

