# Ultimate Tyrant

**description**: Ultimate Tyrant (Hive Mother) The ultimate tyrant, also known as the Hive Mother, is a massive 12-foot diameter monstrosity that dwarfs all other beholders. Extremely rare and only found within the beholder communities and even revered as a god, the centuries-old Ultimate Tyrant holds absolute power and dominion over all other beholders. Its cruelty and tyranny have no limits, and it spends most of its time scheming and planning on how to expand its territories and reach. In combat, the ultimate tyrant prefers to hang back and observe while its beholder minions do the fighting. If it respects its enemies, it unleashes its eye rays at the most vulnerable targets while keeping its central eye focused on enemy spellcasters. If it does not, it moves in to take a Bite at them instead. An Ultimate Tyrant's Lair An ultimate tyrant’s central lair is typically a vast, spacious cavern or ruins with high ceilings, where it can attack without fear of closing to melee range. It also has several 20-foot wide tunnels and sinkholes, all interconnected with each other, which the ultimate tyrant uses to its advantage. An ultimate tyrant encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 22 (41,000 XP). Lair Actions When fighting inside its lair, a beholder can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the beholder can take one lair action to cause one of the following effects: A 50-foot square area of ground within 120 feet of the beholder becomes slimy and toxic; that area is difficult terrain until initiative count 20 on the next round. Each creature that starts its turn in that area must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or take 14 (4d6) poison damage. Walls within 120 feet of the beholder sprout grasping appendages until initiative count 20 on the round after next. Each creature of the beholder’s choice that starts its turn within 20 feet of such a wall must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be grappled. Escaping requires a successful DC 19 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. An eye opens on a solid surface within 60 feet of the beholder. One random eye ray of the beholder shoots from that eye at a target of the beholder’s choice that it can see. The eye then closes and disappears. Regional Effects The regional effects of an ultimate tyrant are identical to that of a Beholder (MM). Traits Antimagic Cone. The ultimate tyrant's central eye creates an area of antimagic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 150-foot cone. At the start of each of its turns, the ultimate tyrant decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. The area works against the ultimate tyrant's own eye rays. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the ultimate tyrant fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d8 + 2) piercing damage. Eye Rays. The ultimate tyrant shoots three of the following magical eye rays at random (reroll duplicates), choosing one to three targets it can see within 120 feet of it: 1. Madness Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or take 22 (5d8) psychic damage and must use its reaction to make one melee weapon attack against a target within 5 feet of it of the ultimate tyrant's choice that it can see. 2. Withering Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 22 (5d8) necrotic damage and is weakened for 1 minute. A weakened creature has disadvantage on Strength-based ability checks and Strength saving throws, and the creature’s weapon attacks that rely on Strength deal half damage. The target can make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effects on itself on a success. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn't weakened. 3. Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 4. Burning Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 27 (6d8) fire damage and catches fire. Until someone takes an action to douse the fire, the creature takes 5 (1d10) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and doesn't catch fire. 5. Stupefying Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw or take 22 (5d8) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 6. Telekinetic Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or the ultimate tyrant moves it up to 30 feet in any direction. It is restrained by the ray's telekinetic grip until the start of the ultimate tyrant's next turn or until the ultimate tyrant is incapacitated. If the target is an object weighing 300 pounds or less that isn't being worn or carried, it is moved up to 30 feet in any direction. The ultimate tyrant can also exert fine control on objects with this ray, such as manipulating a simple tool or opening a door or a container. 7. Frost Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 22 (5d8) cold damage and the creature is slowed. A slowed target has its speed halved for 1 minute. In addition, the creature can't take reactions, and it can take either an action or a bonus action on its turn, not both. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and isn't slowed. 8. Petrification Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature begins to turn to stone and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the creature is petrified until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. 9. Disintegration Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 54 (12d8) force damage. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, its body becomes a pile of fine gray dust. If the target is a Large or smaller nonmagical object or creation of magical force, it is disintegrated without a saving throw. If the target is a Huge or larger object or creation of magical force, this ray disintegrates a 10-foot cube of it. 10. Death Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 66 (12d10) necrotic damage. The target dies if the ray reduces it to 0 hit points. Spellcasting (Psionics). While the ultimate tyrant's antimagic cone is inactive, the ultimate tyrant casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20): At will: darkness, detect magic, detect thoughts, see invisibility 2/day each: banishment, dispel magic, move earth, stoneskin 1/day each: Abi-Dalzim’s horrid wilting, globe of invulnerability, power word stun, wall of force Legendary Actions The ultimate tyrant can take 3 legendary actions, using the options listed below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The ultimate tyrant regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Antimagic Cone. The ultimate tyrant turns which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. Command Beholder. The ultimate tyrant targets one allied beholder within 60 feet of it that can see and hear the ultimate tyrant. The target uses its reaction to make one Bite attack or use one random Eye Ray. Eye Ray (Costs 1-3 Actions). The ultimate tyrant uses up to 3 random Eye Rays. It costs 1 action per Eye Ray used. Psionics (Costs 3 Actions). The ultimate tyrant uses Spellcasting. Reactions Redirect Antimagic Cone. When the ultimate tyrant sees a creature within 150 feet cast a spell, the ultimate tyrant activates its antimagic cone and points it at the creature. 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 21

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

