# Unbound Vengeance Demon

**description**: Unbound Spirits When the new-born world of Ashandri was transported into the Braythian Void, it was cut off from the afterlife for five days. The souls of those who died during this time were captured in Ashandri, unable to pass on to their next state of existence. They turned into Unbound Spirits, a type of undead that is unique to Braythe. These ghost-like entities are solely created in the days a world is cut off. As soon as new conduits open, and the souls of the dead can move on to heaven and hell (and everything in between), no new Unbound Spirits are created in a world-island. While these beings appear to be not much different than ghosts and apparitions, there are three major distinctions. First of all, any kind of soul could have become an Unbound Spirit. This includes animals and even plants, funghi and mindless oozes. There are entire areas that come "alive" with these ghostly beings at night, like a hidden world that reveals itself only in darkness. The most infamous example for this is the Bloodhaunt Forest. Second, an Unbound Spirit cannot be released. Despite extensive research, nobody has found a way to allow these lost souls to enter their deserved afterlife. Unbound Spirits are only created during the first days of a new world in Braythe, and even after the world itself reconnects to other planes, these incorporeal entitities stay disconnected. This also led to their name: Sages from the Arcanists believe that every soul is inherently bound to other planes, and this link is the reason why mortal souls end up in heaven or hell. The Unbound Spirits, though, miss such a bond to other planes. Even divine intervention cannot help such a spirit to pass on. Some of them are lost in an eternity of suffering, others adapt and lead their unlife as good as they can. They still seem to be bound to the reality of Braythe, leading to heated discussions about the name "Unbound" among sages. The third great difference to regular ghosts is that most Unbound Spirits are very close to how they were before their death. Many of them, especially those with semi-sentience and below, don't even understand they are dead, and try to live their life as they did before. While many typical undead are evil or at least dangerous, Unbound Spirits don't change their alignment or develop a sudden bloodlust. They are simply lost souls trapped in the mortal world. They usually keep their previous abilities and knowledge, and can even learn new skills or change their world-views as they make new experiences. There seems to be no method to permanently kill an Unbound Spirit. A few ways to banish or imprison the lost souls have been found, but none of these truly destroy or release such a spirit. If an Unbound Spirit is somehow killed, it vanishes in violet smoke, only to reform and reappear in the following night. Unbound Spirit Traits Almost all Unbound Spirits share a set of traits, as follows: Braythebound. Unbound Spirits cannot be permanently destroyed. If they are killed, they reform with full health in the vicinity of their point of death at the next dusk. Nocturnal Existence. Unbound Spirits appear at dusk and disappear at dawn. Semi-corporeal Existence. Unbound Spirits are, most of the time, semi-corporeal. In this state, they gain the abilities Incorporeal Movement and Incorporeal Immunities. Attacks made by the spirit in this state only inflict necrotic damage, but no physical damage (except against other semi- or incorporeal creatures). As a bonus action, the spirit can decide to become corporeal. It then loses the abilities Incorporeal Movement and Incorporeal Immunities, but its attacks become physical and now inflict all damage types. Incorporeal Movement. In semi-corporeal state, the Unbound Spirit can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Incorporeal Immunities. In semi-corporeal state, the Unbound Spirit is immune to piercing, slashing and bludgeoning damage by non-magical weapons. Undead Immunities. Unbound Spirits have the following condition immunities: Blinded, charmed, exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned. They are also immune to the following damage types: Cold, necrotic, poison. Object Possession (Recharge 6). When succeeding on a Wisdom check against DC 13, the spirit can possess an object with no more hit points than the Unbound Spirit. The spirit disappears, and gains control of the object. The effect is similar as if the Unbound Spirit had cast Animate Objects, but affects a single item with an unlimited duration, and has a range of 5 feet. When possessing an object, the Unbound Spirit doesn’t disappear at dawn (unless it chooses to do so, upon which the possession ends). The spirit can't be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except ones that turn Undead, and it retains its Alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being Charmed and Frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target's statistics. The possession lasts until the object drops to 0 Hit Points, the spirit ends it as a Bonus Action, or the spirit is turned or forced out by an Effect like the Dispel Evil and Good spell. When the possession ends, the spirit reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 ft. of the body. The target object is immune to this spirit’s Possession for 24 hours after a possession attempt fails or the possession ends. Creature Possession (Recharge 6). One creature that the spirit can see within 5 ft. of it must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the spirit; the Unbound Spirit then disappears, and the target is Incapacitated and loses control of its body and falls into a state of unconsciousness. The spirit now controls the body. The spirit can't be targeted by any Attack, spell, or other Effect, except ones that turn Undead, and it retains its Alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being Charmed and Frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target's Statistics, but doesn't gain access to the target's knowledge, Class Features, or Proficiencies. If the target is willing, it can omit the Saving Throw, and in return stays fully conscious. The Unbound Spirit can even decide to give back control of the body temporarily without ending the possession. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 Hit Points, the spirit ends it as a Bonus Action, or the spirit is turned or forced out by an Effect like the Dispel Evil and Good spell. When the possession ends, the spirit reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 ft. of the body. The target is immune to this spirit’s Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends. Unbound Vengeance Demon Demons, inhabitants of hell, creatures of chaos and utter evil. As terrifying as they are, the people of Virthys had a history of summoning them, either forcing them into their service or making foolish pacts with them. Some of these sinister entities roamed the world during the apocalypse, and made it into the new world of Ashandri. But not all of them survived the first days - and those who didn't turned into Unbound Spirits, just like every other soul. Imagine a soul filled with nothing but raging darkness and selfish, unlimited desires. Ancient, powerful and proud of what it is. A mighty evil possibly dreaming of becoming a ruler of its own hellscape one day. And now imagine such a creature dying, expecting its soul to return to hell and reform its demonic body. But instead, it returns as a spirit, an undead creature, cut off from its home. It is not even a real demon anymore, it has become a true native of Braythe - a reality that seems mostly made for mortals, not demons. Stripped of its demonic identity, separated from its home and turned into a creature of undeath, many of these vile entities go mad with rage - even more so than before. Filled with hatred and resent for the new reality that they are now attached to for eternity, they usually have one of two goals: Raze the world to the ground that did this to them - or turn it into a new kind of hell. Despite all their rage, the Unbound Vengeance Demons aren't mindless. They are capable of planning and scheming, of manipulation and subtleties. There might be situations where they can't contain their rage, but they aren't stupid. Some of them took possession of mortals, living among regular people. Others have their own secret lairs, or they even managed to subdue an entire town or city. These viscious, blackhearted entities exist to live out their hatred, their desires and impulses. But with eternity on their side, incapable of ever truly dying, they are in it for the long haul. Anatomy There are many different Unbound Vengeance Demons, depending both on what exactly they were before the apocalypse, and how the transformation into Unbound Spirits changed them. The most common ones appear as large, terrifying humanoids. They have demonic horns, claws and fangs, burning or black eyes, and powerful, muscular bodies with red or black skin. They are often surrounded by a smell of sulphur, even in their semi-corporeal state.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: undead
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 17295
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

