# Uqaviel

**description**: Uqaviel is a master of controlling the battlefield—and is at an advantage in an arena with level earth and open sky. He begins combat by disabling the most obvious melee threat with his Chakram of the Firmament and the most obvious ranged threat with his Chakram of the Mantle . Throughout a fight, he either strategically places his chakrams to keep scattered opponents incapicitated, or devastates grouped foes with Dawn’s Fury. In his exile, Uqaviel has made only a few trusted allies out of other celestials spurned by the heavens. He refuses to ally himself with fiends or other dark forces. If he has not completed his ritual, Uqaviel escapes as quickly as possible (by teleporting or flying away) when a fight is not going in his favor. If his ritual is successfully completed, Uqaviel fights to the death unless his opponents convince him that it’s not too late for him to surrender and be restored to his former glory. Dawnfire . Uqaviel’s weapon attacks are magical. When Uqaviel hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 8d8 fire damage (included in the attack). Fire damage dealt by Uqaviel’s attacks ignores resistance to fire damage. Divine Awareness . Uqaviel knows if he hears a lie. Innate Spellcasting . Uqaviel’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 25). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect evil and good , invisibility (self only) 3/day each: blade barrier , dispel evil and good , resurrection 1/day each: commune , control weather Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If Uqaviel fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance . Uqaviel has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack . Uqaviel makes two attacks: one with each of his different chakram attacks. Chakram of the Firmament . Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack : +15 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 22 (4d6 + 8) slashing damage plus 36 (8d8) fire damage. The target must succeed on a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked 60 feet in the air. Any target without a flying speed falls at the end of its next turn, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall and landing prone. Chakram of the Mantle . Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack : +15 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 22 (4d6 + 8) slashing damage plus 36 (8d8) fire damage. The target must succeed on a DC 23 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and stunned until the end of its next turn. Flying Chakram . Uqaviel commands one of his chakrams to hover magically in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of him. If Uqaviel can see the chakram, he can mentally command it as a bonus action to fly up to 50 feet and either make one attack against a target or return to Uqaviel’s hand. If the hovering weapon is targeted by any effect, Uqaviel is considered to be holding it. The chakram falls if Uqaviel dies. Burning Touch (4/Day) . Uqaviel touches another creature within 5 feet of him. The target must make a DC 23 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes 36 (8d8) fire damage and is blinded, deafened, or poisoned (Uqaviel’s choice). On a success, the creature takes half as much damage and is not inflicted with a condition. Legendary Actions Uqaviel can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Uqaviel regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Teleport . Uqaviel magically teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Searing Burst (Costs 2 Actions) . Uqaviel emits divine energy. Each creature of his choice within 10 feet of him must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage plus 14 (4d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Dawn’s Fury (Costs 3 Actions) . Uqaviel drives both his chakrams into the ground. All creatures within 30 feet of the impact point must make a DC 23 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 22 (4d10) force damage and is pulled in a straight line toward the impact point, ending in an unoccupied space as close to the impact point as possible, then is thrown 60 feet into the air. Any creature without a flying speed falls at the end of its next turn, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall and landing prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and is not thrown into the air. Uqaviel must be holding both of his chakrams to take this action.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 14463
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 1

