# Vacenar, the God-Traitor

**description**: This fallen angel’s stringy white hair fades to rustred at its ends, and its eyes are a sunken black. Its once-fair skin has turned a bruised purple, and its hands are burned and cracked with lines of hellfire. In them, it holds a wickedly serrated greatsword made of rusted iron. Aside from heavy iron shoulder pauldrons and greaves, it wears no armor, but it radiates an aura of psychic pain that causes any would-be attackers to suffer at their own hands. History. Though somewhat a misnomer, these fallen angels once served a deity of Life, and were cast out for their attempt to destroy Death, without which Life felt it would have no meaning to its worshippers. The name “angel of blood” comes from the tales of their fall, when Life tore its power - their blood - from their bodies and it streamed from their eyes like tears, staining their skin crimson. Now, these angels serve their ringleader, Vacenar, whom Life has dubbed “God-Traitor”, as they search the realms for new purpose. Tactics. Angels of blood fight with savage but intelligent abandon. When their Blood Frenzy activates, they use it to the greatest effect they can, but prefer to flee if they seem to be at risk of death. Their primary tactic is to inflict Jagged Cuts with their greatsword on as many creatures as possible, saving Bloodletting for a chance to regain hit points or using it as a finishing blow against a target. When possible, they makes use of their fly speed to stay out of melee range in between turns. Traits Aura of Pain. Once per turn, when Vacenar takes damage from an attack, the attacker takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage. Blood Frenzy. While his hit points are equal to or below half their maximum (94), Vacenar gains a +1 bonus to attack rolls and deals an additional 7 (2d6) damage with its attacks and abilities of the same type normally dealt by those attacks or abilities. God-Traitor. Vacenar serves no one save those he deems worthy of his might. Vacenar is immune to spells and effects that target celestials (for example protection from good and evil, and some Channel Divinity effects). Jagged Cuts. A creature with a stack of Jagged Cuts loses 3 (1d6) hit points at the start of their turn from their bleeding wounds. Bleeding stacks up to 2 times (2d6 hit points at the start of their turn). For each additional stack beyond 2 they would take, the damage from the action that inflicted it is considered 5 higher for the purposes of inflicting an Injury. A creature can make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check as an action to stop the bleeding and remove all stacks of Jagged Cuts. Fragment of the Divine. Vacenar can use one of his Divine Actions at the start of each of his turns. Once an action has been used, it cannot be used again until he rolls initiative. Magic Resistance. Vacenar has advantage on saving throws against magical effects. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Vacenar fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When Vacenar gains an Injury, he can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until he finishes a long rest. Actions Multiattack. Vacenar makes two melee attacks with his Jagged Greatsord or Hellfire Claw. Hellfire Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10+5) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) fire damage, and the target must make a DC 22 Athletics or Acrobatics check or become grappled. A creature grappled by the angel takes 3 (1d6) fire damage at the start of each of the angel’s turns. While grappling a creature, Vacenar has disadvantage on attack rolls with its Jagged Greatsword. Jagged Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d8+7) slashing damage, and the target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or gain a stack of Jagged Cuts (see the Jagged Cuts trait). Bloodletting (Recharge 5-6). Vacenar chooses a creature within 30 feet. That creature must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or take 27 (8d6) force damage as its veins and arteries rupture across its body, sending blood spattering towards Vacenar. This also applies two stacks of Jagged Cuts (see the Jagged Cuts trait), and if the angel is at less than half its maximum hit points, it regains 10 hit points, up to a maximum of half its maximum hit points. On a successful save the creature takes half damage, and Jagged Cuts is not applied. A creature that is reduced to 0 hit points by a failed save against this ability is considered to have taken an additional 20 points of damage when determining the Injury severity. Run Through. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target with two stacks of Jagged Cuts. Hit: 29 (5d8+7) piercing damage. This damage counts as 15 higher for the purposes of inflicting an Injury. Vacenar then throws the target off his blade. If the target is a medium or smaller creature, it is flung up to 30 feet in a direction of Vacenar's choice, taking 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage if it impacts a solid object or wall before the end of the throw. The target must make a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Divine Actions Smite the God-Fearing. Vacenar calls a blaze of divine wrath mixed with hellfire to strike his enemies. Vacenar casts flame strike. Each creature in a 10-foot radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within 60 feet of Vacenar must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 28 (8d6) fire, necrotic, and radiant damage (a creature must be resistant or immune to all three types to reduce this damage through resistance or immunity) on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Wrath of the Unfaithful. Vacenar shines with a blinding light that darkens the battlefield around him. He and each ally in a 60-foot radius centered on him gain the effects of a bless spell (whenever one of these creatures makes an attack roll or saving throw, it rolls 1d4 and adds the result to its d20 roll). Creature's hostile to Vacenar within the same radius must make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw or be affected by a bane spell (whenever one of these creatures makes an attack roll or saving throw, it rolls 1d4 and subtracts the result to its d20 roll). These effects last until the end of Vacenar's next turn. Positioning Strike. Vacenar and up to five allies within 30 feet of him can make a melee attack. They can move up to their movement speeds before or after making the attack, without provoking opportunity attacks.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: celestial
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

