# Valaara

**description**: Valaara is known as the Crawling Queen, the Watcher in the Walls, and the Keeper of Worms. It’s said that you can hear Valaara’s voice in the rustling of roaches and the keening of locusts. In some tales, Valaara crafts worms that crawl through the ear and consume a creature’s brain; in others, when its maggots devour a corpse, Valaara can recreate the victim in its Deepest Hive. No one knows what Valaara wants, but its minions could be all around you even now, crawling in your walls and moving beneath your feet. Chitin Consciousness. Valaara embodies the alien nature of insects in all aspects. Valaara’s symbionts may be formed from chitin, but it also has creations like the spellburrow and the throwing scarab (detailed in chapter 7)—insects that burrow into the skin of the bearer. Those touched by Valaara may undergo a physical metamorphosis and manifest insect traits, but Valaara’s touch can also transform the mind. Some who hear the whispers of the Crawling Queen become fascinated by insects, while others suffer more dramatic transformations. Valaara’s most persistent cults spread by forming a hive; one creature becomes the queen, and others touched by this cultist find their original personality and desires fading, consumed by the need to fulfill their purpose in the hive. Usually this effect is limited, a psychic connection that only binds a few people; but in a few cases, this psychic contagion has been virulent and contagious, consuming entire towns. Valaara’s Minions. The cults of the Crawling Queen are described in detail in chapter 3. Valaara doesn’t use dolgaunts or dolgrims; rather, it often transforms humanoids into insect forms. These creatures use the statistics of thri-kreen, driders, or umber hulks, but their appearance can vary dramatically; a group of servitors could be roach-people as opposed to the typical mantis form of the thri-kreen. In other places it works through consuming worms, producing creatures with the statistics of spawn of Kyuss. In general, Valaara may employ any sort of creature thematically related to insects or worms, from simple swarms and giant spiders to carrion crawlers, ankhegs, remorhazes, or even purple worms. But these monsters should be seen as a starting point. Like all daelkyr, Valaara is constantly experimenting and creating new things. Imagine a purple worm with malign intelligence and psychic powers, or teleporting ankhegs that burrow through the fabric of space. Valaara’s Lair Like other daelkyr, Valaara is bound within a demiplane in Khyber. However, Valaara has bred burrowing worms that chew through the fabric of reality, carving a web of passages between her Deepest Hive and the world above. An organization that discovers the upper layers of these tunnels could use them to move swiftly across the world, entering a tunnel in the Lhazaar Principalities, traveling five miles, and emerging in Sarlona or the Eldeen Reaches. Smugglers or explorers might make use of this wonder, never knowing what lies in the deeper tunnels— until Valaara’s minions seize them, or until they are consumed by the psychic influence of the Crawling Queen. While tunnels to the Deepest Hive can appear anywhere that suits the story, they are also less permanent than the ties between Eberron and the realms of many other daelkyr. A tunnel to the Deepest Hive can appear wherever it suits the needs of a story, but it’s also possible to collapse a passage and break a connection. The upper tunnels of Valaara’s realm are usually formed of fused glass-like material, then as explorers delve deeper, they find the walls formed of chitin and muscle, with insects swarming across every surface. One might discover pulsing cocoons, nests of slumbering purple worms, or chambers lined with thousands of glowing eggs. And in the heart is the Deepest Hive itself, where Valaara weaves its webs and conducts its sinister experiments. Lair Actions. While within its lair, Valaara can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Valaara can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects; it can’t use the same lair action two rounds in a row: Valaara chooses one target and use its Summon Swarm ability against it. Valaara subsumes creatures into its hive consciousness. Each creature it can see within its lair must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 minute. While charmed in this way, a creature must use its action at the start of its turn before moving to make a melee attack against another creature of Valaara’s choice within reach. If there are no creatures within reach, the charmed creature can act normally for that turn. A charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success. A 50-foot-radius area of ground within 120 feet of Valaara becomes swarmed by fear moths until initiative count 20 on the round after next. During that time, each creature that starts or ends its turn in the area must make a DC 22 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, any immunity to or advantage against fear is negated and it has disadvantage on saves against fear for one minute. Regional Effects. Tunnels to the Deepest Hive can appear anywhere. A region containing a passage to the Deepest Hive can be warped in one or more of these ways: Insect and arachnid presence increases dramatically within 5 miles of the passage, and insects display unnatural swarming behavior. Beasts that live within a mile of the passage may undergo physical transformation, developing insect characteristics such as compound eyes, extra limbs, chitinous plating, and hive behavior. If a humanoid creature spends at least 1 hour within 1 mile of the passage, it must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or descend into a type of madness (see “Madness of Valaara” below). A creature that succeeds on this saving throw can’t be affected by this regional effect again for 24 hours. These regional effects build over time. If a passage has just appeared, there may be a slight increase in insect activity and the saving throw on the madness effect will be much lower. The longer the passage remains, the more notable the effects become. If Valaara dies or if the passage is destroyed, the effects fade away after 1d10 days. Madness of Valaara If a creature goes mad in Valaara’s lair or while it can see the daelkyr, it gains a form of indefinite madness. Roll on the Madness of Valaara table to determine the nature of this madness, which takes the form of a character flaw that lasts until cured. Chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide has more information on madness. Madness of Valaara d6 Flaw (lasts until cured) 1 “There are worms crawling through my flesh.” 2 “I hear secrets in the buzzing of insects.” 3 “I am undergoing a metamorphosis into a glorious insect form.” 4 “I have a psychic connection to one or more people.” 5 “I must serve my hive and protect my queen.” 6 “I am an insect that’s evolved into humanoid form.” Daelkyr A daelkyr knows secrets mortals can’t comprehend and has plans they can’t understand. Some sages believe that the daelkyr are artists and that worlds are their canvas; they destroy civilizations and unleash monsters because, to them, this is a thing of beauty. Others say that the daelkyr exist beyond time, and that their actions only make sense when viewed over the course of millennia. Still others assert that any creature that can understand the motives of the daelkyr will immediately turn to their cause—that it is dangerous to study the daelkyr too closely, lest their revelations destroy all prior understanding and identity. While they may be enigmatic, the daelkyr are unquestionably evil; they shatter innocent lives and entire civilizations without any remorse. Unifying Theme. Each daelkyr has a unique theme; Belashyrra is tied to sight, Valaara to insects, and Dyrrn to corruption and evolution. This theme is reflected in the daelkyr’s appearance, in the minions it employs, and in the symbionts it creates. If the daelkyr is an artist, the theme is its medium. If it’s a conqueror, the theme defines its weapons and the world it seeks to create. Additionally, each daelkyr holds secrets and revelations relating to its specific theme—secrets mortal minds can’t comprehend. While in Belashyrra’s presence, people may remember things they’ve seen and forgotten. Around Valaara, they may feel insects burrowing through their flesh, or sense the thoughts of their allies—a momentary sensation of being part of a hive. Alien and Unsettling. In an encounter with a daelkyr, consider ways to express its alien nature, such as the following: A daelkyr can teleport 30 feet as a bonus action. This reflects the idea that the daelkyr are loosely bound to space and time. The daelkyr shifts in space, but you can’t remember it moving. You could represent this as a constant, casual effect; even outside of combat, the daelkyr shifts between spaces, unbound by the concept of distance or time. The appearance of a daelkyr is subjective. The basic facts are constant: a daelkyr is a Medium bipedal creature, and its equipment doesn’t change. Beyond this, its appearance reflects its theme blended with its alien nature; for example, Valaara typically appears as an angelic humanoid merged with insect elements. But after people encounter a daelkyr, those who compare notes may find they disagree on the details. The daelkyr might appear as someone the viewer knows, or its appearance could shift mid-conversation. This is not something the daelkyr controls, and it’s not considered a beneficial trait; it’s simply part of their alien nature. Daelkyr have telepathy with a range of 120 feet. This is their primary form of communication and is intended to be broader in scope than typical telepathy. A daelkyr can communicate with any number of creatures within range at once, projecting a thought much as other creatures project sound. Typically when a daelkyr “speaks,” all creatures receive the same message, but the DM might decide that one or more creatures receive a different message. And just as people see different things when they look at a daelkyr, two people can perceive a daelkyr’s “speech” in very different ways. One may feel as though the daelkyr is speaking aloud with a strange, alien voice. Another may hear the speech of the daelkyr as the voice of a dead lover, whispering in their ear. Another may not be able to remember actually hearing the daelkyr speak; instead, they just remember its words existing, as if they’ve always known them. The Alien Mind feature of the daelkyr reflects the idea that the way that the daelkyr experience reality is so alien that any creature who tries to read their thoughts—to see the universe as they do—may become catatonic. Any encounter with a daelkyr should be horrifying, driven by its alien, unknowable nature. The actions of the Lords of Dust and the Dreaming Dark make sense; the quori seek to control humanity’s dreams, while the Lords of Dust strive to release their bound overlords. The actions of the daelkyr are just as deadly and destructive, but we cannot understand what they want, and those who attempt to do so often become cultists. Traits Alien Mind. If a creature tries to read Valaara’s thoughts or deals psychic damage to it, that creature must succeed on a DC 22 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. The stunned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Legendary Resistance (3/day). If Valaara fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Valaara has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Regeneration. Valaara regains 20 hit points at the start of its turn. If Valaara takes radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of Valaara’s next turn. Valaara dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Teleport. As a bonus action, Valaara can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Actions Multiattack. Valaara makes two attacks with its chitinous claw or chitinous spine, and can use its Summon Swarm once. Chitinous Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) slashing damage. Chitinous Spine. Ranged Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, range 60/180 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) piercing damage. Summon Swarms. Valaara summons a swarm of insects and arachnids that cover a 10-foot-radius sphere at a point of its choosing within 120 feet, afflicting all creatures in the area with one of the following effects (roll a d6 or choose one), to which Valaara is immune: 1. Stinging Wasps. Each creature must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 32 (5d12) piercing damage and has disadvantage on attack rolls until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and doesn’t have disadvantage on attack rolls. 2. Spinning Spiders. Each creature must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 27 (6d8) bludgeoning damage and be restrained for 1 minute as it is squeezed by the webbing. A restrained creature can escape with a successful DC 22 Strength (Athletics) check as an action. 3. Venomous Centipedes. Each creature must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 22 (4d10) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage, but is still poisoned. 4. Infesting Grubs. Each creature must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or be infested by 4 (1d4+2) rot grubs. At the start of each of an infected creature’s turns, it takes 1d6 piercing damage per rot grub infesting it. Applying fire to the bite wound before the end of the creature’s next turn deals 1 fire damage to the creature and kills these rot grubs, ending the effect. After this time, these rot grubs are too far under the skin to be burned. If a target infested by rot grubs ends its turn with 0 hit points, it dies as the rot grubs burrow into its heart and kill it. Any effect that cures disease kills all rot grubs infesting the target, ending the effect. 5. Discordant Cicadas. Each creature must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While a creature is frightened in this way, it is incapacitated. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature has advantage against future saves against this swarm for the next 24 hours. 6. Psychoactive Beetles. Each creature must succeed on a DC 22 Intelligence saving throw or take 33 (6d10) psychic damage as it suffers from intense hallucinations. Legendary Actions Valaara can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Valaara regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Throw Spine. Valaara makes one chitinous spine attack. Synthesize Worm (Costs 2 Actions). Valaara fuses the swarms under its command, forming a carrion crawler (see its entry in the Monster Manual ) in an unoccupied space of Valaara’s choosing within 90 feet of it. The carrion crawler is under Valaara’s control and acts immediately after Valaara in the initiative order. Imaginary Crawlers (Costs 3 Actions). Valaara touches the mind of mortals, implanting a suggestion that her creatures have burrowed under their skin. One target of Valaara’s choice within 60 feet that she can see must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or take 22 (4d10) psychic damage and immediately lose concentration on any spell it is concentrating on.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 20973
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Exploring Eberron

