# Valdek Karuul

**description**: Few survive a titan attack and live to speak of it. An elf born of the sea, Valdek Karuul always loved working on ships. The sea was his home, and sailors were his people. He signed on with a merchant vessel named the Ebon Crow that transported gems, foodstuffs, and passengers. One night, a massive behemoth of the sea attacked the Ebon Crow . The ocean titan Veldaza tore the ship to shreds with its claws and tentacles. Only Valdek survived—but he didn’t escape unscathed. A claw from the beast dug into his back, imbuing the elf with Veldaza’s residual magic. As Valdek swam through the waves away from the monster, his own form grew. He suddenly matched size with sea lions and sharks, and he could harness spells that no mage he’d ever shipped out with knew. Now Valdek wanders the sea under his own power, watching for pirates and those who would harm sailors, including the titan that gave him this magic. Sailors in Valdek’s territory often tell tales of the time they were saved by a giant elf now dubbed the Titanic Guardian of the Sea. Amphibious . Valdek can breathe air and water. Fey Ancestry . Valdek has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to sleep. Metamagic . Valdek has 12 sorcery points, which he regains after finishing a long rest. He can spend 1 or more sorcery points when he casts a spell to produce one of the following effects: Careful Spell (1 Point). When Valdek casts a spell that forces other creatures to make a saving throw, he can choose up to five creatures in the spell’s area of effect. A chosen creature automatically succeeds on its saving throw against the spell. Empowered Spell (1 Point). When Valdek rolls damage for a spell, he can reroll up to five of the damage dice and must use the new rolls. Valdek can use Empowered Spell even if he has already used a different Metamagic option during the casting of the spell. Heightened Spell (3 Points). When Valdek casts a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist its effects, he can give one target of the spell disadvantage on its first saving throw made against the spell. Spellcasting . Valdek is a 12th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following sorcerer spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): chill touch , dancing lights , light , mending , message , true strike 1st Level (4 slots): mage armor , magic missile , witch bolt 2nd Level (3 slots): hold person , invisibility 3rd Level (3 slots): fly , lightning bolt 4th Level (3 slots): dimension door , greater invisibility 5th Level (2 slots): cloudkill , cone of cold 6th Level (1 slot): chain lightning Actions Trident . Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack : +2 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 2 (1d6 - 1) piercing damage or 3 (1d8 - 1) piercing damage if used with two hands. Titan Manifestation (3/Day) . Valdek enters a titan form for 1 minute. While in this form, his size increases to Large and his AC increases by 4, he can attack with his trident twice as an action, and his bonus to hit with his trident becomes +8 and it deals 10 (1d6 + 1d4 + 5) piercing damage on a hit. In addition, while in titan form, Valdek knows and can cast the blaze , cataclysm , daybreak , glacier , and quake spells as sorcerer spells.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 14463
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 1

