# Valeria, Keeper of Sagas

**description**: Valeria is an elven bard who seeks to craft the most epic tales of heroism by using her lackeys to create unrest that she encourages heroes to solve (and often inciting incidents for said heroes’ adventures). She is adept at covering her tracks, and is beloved by many as a folk hero and famous singer and songwriter. Appearance. Valeria is a dark-skinned elf with coarse black hair arranged in thick strands banded with gold. She dresses primarily in greens and golds, and carries a gilded rapier at her hip. Also with her at all times is her gorgeously crafted and magically enchanted lyre. Personality. Valeria, though already famous, wants to be remembered for centuries to come as the most prolific and prominent bard of epic tales in any age. In search of this renown, she will do nearly anything to get the right adventurers on the right path at the right time - even setting in motion world-threatening plots. She tells herself she doesn’t start anything she can’t finish, but she’s never had to find out whether or not that’s true. Plot Hooks You Meet in a Tavern. Valeria arranges for a mysterious attack against her during a performance at a local tavern after ensuring locals with a thirst for adventure (or too good a heart to stand by and watch) would be there. This forms the inciting incident for the party, and should place Valeria in a good position to feed them information and learn of their adventures. Will the party ever discover her hand in these events? Strange Songs. The party encounters Valeria at one of her performances, and realizes she is singing about one of their adventures. However, she knows too much detail about the villain, almost as though she knew their thoughts exactly. Paying for the Past. Valeria’s deeds have caught up with her, and a previous adventuring party who have learned of her involvement in a terrible event in their past are seeking revenge. Valeria tries to convince the PCs to help defend her from these “troublesome bandits”. Tactics Valeria likes to pretend she’s no good in a fight, relying on her enchantment spells to keep her safe. However, if pressed, she is in fact quite good with a rapier and resorts to physical confrontation to defend her life. She immediately flees with dimension door if there are no witnesses, but when in a public or crowded area, she calls on passersby to help defend her - both to keep up her appearances and to draw attention to her enemies, turning the public against them. Her prowess in a fight primarily relies on numbers, both because the songs she sings can bolster her allies beyond their normal capabilities and keep them from harm and because it gives her more opportunities for Sneak Attack. When alone and forced to fight, she relies on her Enthralling Song to force an enemy to fight for her. When fighting alongside several allies, Valeria’s Challenge Rating increases to 7. Traits Mistress of Enchantments. Other creatures have disadvantage on their saving throws against being charmed by Valeria, and they are not aware that they were charmed when the effect ends (though they can find their behavior strange and come to their own conclusions depending on the actions taken). Master of Disguise. Valeria has advantage on Charisma (Deception) and Charisma (Performance) checks when trying to pass herself off as a different person. Additionally, she can mimic the sounds and speech of another person or the sounds made by other creatures that she has heard for at least 1 minute. A successful Wisdom (Insight) check contested by her Charisma (Deception) check allows a listener to determine that the effect is faked. Sneak Attack (1/turn). Whenever Valeria hits with an attack made with advantage or against a creature within 5 ft. of another enemy of that creature that isn’t incapacitated and Valeria doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll, that attack deals an additional 10 (3d6) damage of the type it would deal. Actions Multiattack. Valeria uses Soothing Song, Riotous Song, or Enthralling Song and makes a Dashing Rapier attack. Dashing Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take an additional 21 (6d6) slashing damage. Valeria can move up to half her speed without provoking attacks of opportunity before or after making this attack. Soothing Song. Valeria and each ally within 30 ft. of her that can hear her gains 10 temporary hit points. Additionally, if they currently suffer from an effect that a saving throw can end, they can immediately make a new saving throw to end the effect on themself. A creature can’t make this saving throw if the effect was caused by Valeria (i.e. her Enthralling Song). Each enemy within 30 ft. of her that can hear her must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on its next attack roll or saving throw it makes before the end of her next turn. Valeria can apply her Sneak Attack to her next attack roll made before the start of her next turn against a creature that failed its saving throw as long as she doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Riotous Song. Valeria and each ally within 30 ft. of her that can hear her gains a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws and a +5 bonus to damage rolls until the start of her next turn. Each enemy within 30 ft. of her that can hear her must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) psychic damage on a failed save or half as much on a successful one. Enthralling Song. One enemy within 30 ft. of Valeria that can hear her must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by Valeria. While charmed in this way, it is considered her ally and considers her an ally. It does its best to protect her, including fighting against any of its former allies as though they were deadly threats. The creature can make a new saving throw to end this effect at the end of each of its turns. On a successful saving throw, any bonuses or temporary hit points granted to it by Valeria’s Soothing Song or Riotous Song are lost. Only one creature can be charmed in this way at a time. If a new creature becomes charmed by her Enthralling Song, the previous creature is considered to have succeeded on its saving throw against this effect. Dimension Door (1/Rest). Valeria casts dimension door. Valeria and up to one medium-sized or smaller ally within 5 ft. of her teleports to another location within 500 ft., arriving exactly at the spot desired. It can be a place she can see, visualize, or describe with distance and direction. She (and her ally) can bring along objects as long as their weight doesn’t exceed what she (and her ally) can carry. If the targets of the spell would arrive in a place already occupied by an object or a creature, they take 14 (4d6) force damage, and the spell fails to teleport them. Charm Person (1/Rest). Valeria casts charm person at 5th level. Up to 4 humanoids Valeria can see within 30 ft. of her must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by her for 1 hour or until she or her companions do anything harmful to it. A creature has advantage on this saving throw if Valeria or her companions are fighting it. The charmed creature regards her as a friendly acquaintance.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (elf)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

