# Vampire Warlock

**description**: The vampire warlock has made a pact with a foul power to diminish some of its weaknesses and to gain more control over its own blood and the blood of others. Its thirst becomes so all-consuming that the vampire warlock can draw the blood of others through the air to its open maw. A vampire warlock isn’t subject to the Forbiddance or Harmed by Running Water weaknesses of standard vampires, and it takes only 10 radiant damage from direct sunlight instead of 20. It gains the trait Innate Spellcasting. Traits Shapeshifter: If the vampire isn't in sun light or running water, it can use its action to Polymorph into a Tiny bat or a Medium cloud of mist, or back into its true form. While in bat form, the vampire can't speak, its walking speed is 5 feet, and it has a flying speed of 30 feet. Its Statistics, other than its size and speed, are unchanged. Anything it is wearing transforms with it, but nothing it is carrying does. It reverts to its true form if it dies. While in mist form, the vampire can't take any actions, speak, or manipulate Objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed of 20 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature's space and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through a space, the mist can do so without squeezing, and it can't pass through water. It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws, and it is immune to all nonmagical damage, except the damage it takes from sunlight. Legendary Resistance (3/Day): If the vampire fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Misty Escape: When it drops to 0 hit points outside its Resting place, the vampire transforms into a cloud of mist (as in the Shapechanger trait) instead of Falling Unconscious, provided that it isn't in sunlight or running water. If it can't transform, it is destroyed. While it has 0 hit points in mist form, it can't revert to its vampire form, and it must reach its Resting place within 2 hours or be destroyed. Once in its Resting place, it reverts to its vampire form. It is then Paralyzed until it regains at least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in its Resting place with 0 hit points, it regains 1 hit point. Regeneration: The vampire regains 20 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn't in sunlight or running water. If the vampire takes radiant damage or damage from Holy Water, this trait doesn't function at the start of the vampire's next turn. Spider Climb: The vampire can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Vampire Weaknesses: The vampire has the following flaws: Stake to the Heart. If a piercing weapon made of wood is driven into the vampire's heart while the vampire is Incapacitated in its Resting place, the vampire is Paralyzed until the stake is removed. Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The vampire takes 10 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on Attack rolls and Ability Checks. Actions Multiattack (Vampire Form Only): The vampire makes two attacks, only one of which can be a bite Attack. Unarmed Strike (Vampire Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., One Creature. Hit : 8 (1d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage. On hit, instead of dealing damage, the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 18). Bite (Bat or Vampire Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack : +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., One Willing Creature or a creature that is grappled by the vampire. Hit : 7 (1d6 + 4) Piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) Necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a Long Rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and then buried in the ground rises the following night as a Vampire Spawn under the vampire's control. Bloody Arms: The vampire warlock saturates itself in its own blood, causing 20 poison damage to itself. For 1 minute, its armor class increases to 20 and its unarmed strike and bite attacks do an additional 7 (2d6) poison damage. Call the Blood: The vampire warlock targets one humanoid it can see within 60 feet. The target must be injured (has fewer than its normal maximum hit points). The target’s blood is drawn out of the body and streams through the air to the vampire warlock. The target takes 25 (6d6 + 4) necrotic damage and its hit point maximum is reduced by an equal amount until the target finishes a long rest; a successful DC 17 Constitution saving throw prevents both effects. The vampire warlock regains hit points equal to half the damage dealt. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Blood Puppet. The vampire warlock targets one humanoid it can see within 30 feet. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be dominated by the vampire warlock as if it were the target of a dominate person spell. The target repeats the saving throw each time the vampire warlock or the vampire’s companions do anything harmful to it, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or until the vampire warlock is destroyed, is on a different plane of existence than the target, or uses a bonus action to end the effect; the vampire warlock doesn’t need to concentrate on maintaining the effect. Children of Hell (1/Day). The vampire warlock magically calls 2d4 imps or 1 shadow. The called creatures arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting as allies of the vampire warlock and obeying its spoken commands, and remain for 1 hour, until the vampire warlock dies, or until the vampire warlock dismisses them as a bonus action. Legendary Actions Can take 3 Legendary Actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are regained at the start of each turn. Misty Step: The vampire warlock uses misty step. Unarmed Strike: The vampire warlock makes one unarmed strike. Call the Blood (Costs 2 Actions): The vampire warlock uses call of the blood.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead (shapeshifter)
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment:  Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 3
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

