# Vampire, Patrician

**description**: Handsome and youthful-looking with blond hair, slightly pointed ears, and piercing blue eyes, this vampire has a definite air of arrogance as he regards everything around him with barely concealed contempt. Vampire patricians are weaker than their vampire kin but are far superior to the spawn their kin create. What they lack in power, they more than make up for in sheer cruelty. Iron-Fisted Rulers. Vampire patricians govern a small town or village for their undead overlord. Seeking to impress those above them, they keep the downtrodden peasantry in a state of perpetual dread with public floggings, executions, and sacrifices on the altars of the Blood Goddess and hunting expeditions in which the patrician and guests pursue hapless peasants through the woods. Brooding Presence. Vampire patricians make their homes in small castles or large manor houses, often on a steep hill that looms over their territory. Their subterranean resting places are well guarded by vampire spawn and mindless undead. The area around a vampire patrician's home is partially corrupted by its unnatural presence, creating the following effects: plants within 1,000 feet of its home warp to become more beautiful and deadly versions of their base form, secreting poison or releasing sweet-smelling, toxic pollen; and sounds are more muted, making conversation harder to overhear and screams for help almost inaudible over distances. Undead Nature. The vampire patrician doesn't require air. Vampires in Midgard Vampires rule the Blood Kingdom of Morgau openly, treating the living as cattle to be bought, sold, exploited, and drained of blood by their undead masters. King Lucan reigns supreme in Morgau. His sworn nobles and vampire progeny are the princes, princesses, dukes, and duchesses beneath him, all vampires of great power in their own right. The counts and countesses, who hold smaller territories or powerful monasteries for the King, rank slightly lower than the princes and duchesses. Generals and governors, vampires who command Morgau's troops or rule smaller fiefdoms, sit beneath the counts and countesses. Vampire patricians rank lowest among the vampire nobility and make up the majority of the lesser nobles, barons, lords, and ladies of the Blood Kingdom--still quite dangerous, and easily able to command darakhul, vampiric knights, and other servants. Vampire priestesses stand somewhat outside of the ranking of vampires in the Blood Kingdom, due to their association with the Blood Goddess' faith. Once a vampire joins the Red Sisters, she is bound to the Blood Goddess, but she is also afforded extra respect and status in Morgau, regardless of her sire or original place in the hierarchy. King Lucan and his court are the very first northern shroud-eaters and remain some of the strongest to this day. In the Southlands, shroud-eaters dwell within the Grand Necropolis of Siwal, and many inhabit an island known as the Pallid Court of Vampires within the Nurian city of Per-Bastet.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 13
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

