# Vampire Lord (Blackguard)

**description**: Even more powerful than the vampire is the ancient vampire lord, said to be amongst the first of its kind. They are stronger, more cunning, and resilient than the normal vampire. A Vampire Lord's Lair A vampire lord chooses the same types of lairs a normal vampire would but is guarded by powerful vampire spawns, demons, or undead. A vampire lord encountered in its lair has a challenge rating of 19 (22,000 XP). Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the vampire lord can take a lair action to cause one of the following magical effects; the vampire lord can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The vampire lord summons a vampire spawn that appears within 120 feet of it. The vampire spawn obeys its telepathic commands, which can reach anywhere in the lair. The vampire lord casts command or hold person , if available. The vampire lord unleashes sickly green bolts of energy at up to three creatures it can see within 120 feet of itself. Each target must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage and can't regain hit points until the start of the vampire lord's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the vampire lord fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Misty Escape. When it drops to 0 hit points outside its resting place, the vampire lord transforms into a cloud of mist (as in the Shapechanger trait) instead of falling unconscious, provided that it isn't in sunlight or running water. If it can't transform, it is destroyed. While it has 0 hit points in mist form, it can't revert to its vampire lord form, and it must reach its resting place within 2 hours or be destroyed. Once in its resting place, it reverts to its vampire lord form. It is then paralyzed until it regains at least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in its resting place with 0 hit points, it regains 1 hit point. Regeneration. The vampire lord regains 20 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn't in sunlight or running water. If the vampire lord takes radiant damage or damage from holy water, this trait doesn't function at the start of the vampire lord's next turn. Spider Climb. The vampire lord can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Vampire Weaknesses. The vampire lord has the following flaws: Forbiddance . The vampire lord can't enter a residence without an invitation from one of the occupants. Harmed by Running Water . The vampire lord takes 20 acid damage if it ends its turn in running water. Stake to the Heart . If a piercing weapon made of wood is driven into the vampire lord's heart while the vampire lord is incapacitated in its resting place, the vampire lord is paralyzed until the stake is removed. Sunlight Hypersensitivity . The vampire lord takes 20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Actions Multiattack (Vampire Form Only). The vampire lord makes three attacks, only one of which can be a Bite attack. It can use its Charm or Dreadful Aspect in place of one attack. Greatsword (Vampire Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Unarmed Strike (Vampire Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Instead of dealing damage, the vampire lord can grapple the target (escape DC 19). Bite (Bat or Vampire Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one willing creature, or a creature that is grappled by the vampire lord, incapacitated, or restrained. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vampire lord regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and then buried in the ground rises the following night as a vampire lord spawn under the vampire lord's control. Charm. The vampire lord targets one humanoid it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the vampire lord, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be charmed by the vampire lord. The charmed target regards the vampire lord as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although the target isn't under the vampire lord's control, it takes the vampire lord's requests or actions in the most favorable way it can, and it is a willing target for the vampire lord's Bite attack. Each time the vampire lord or the vampire lord's companions do anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or until the vampire lord is destroyed, is on a different plane of existence than the target, or takes a bonus action to end the effect. Dreadful Aspect (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The vampire lord exudes magical menace. Each enemy within 30 feet of the vampire lord must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. If a frightened target ends its turn more than 30 feet away from the vampire lord, the target can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Spellcasting. The vampire lord casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): 2/day each: command, darkness, dispel magic, hold person 1/day each: animate dead (as an action), banishment, destructive wave (necrotic) Children of the Night (1/Day). The vampire lord magically calls 2d4 swarms of bats or rats, provided that the sun isn't up. While outdoors, the vampire lord can call 3d6 wolves instead. The called creatures arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting as allies of the vampire lord and obeying its spoken commands. The beasts remain for 1 hour, until the vampire lord dies, or until the vampire lord dismisses them as a bonus action. Change Shape. If the vampire lord isn't in sunlight or running water, it polymorphs in to a Tiny bat or a Medium cloud of mist, or back in to its true form. While in bat form, the vampire lord can't speak, its walking speed is 5 feet, and it has a flying speed of 30 feet. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are unchanged. Anything it is wearing transforms with it, but nothing it is carrying does. This transformation ends if the vampire lord is reduced to 0 hit points or uses an action to end it. While in mist form, the vampire lord can't take any actions, speak, or manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed of 20 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature's space and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through a space, the mist can do so without squeezing, and it can't pass through water. It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws, and it is immune to all nonmagical damage, except the damage it takes from sunlight. Bonus Actions Cunning Action. The vampire lord takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Legendary Actions The vampire lord can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The vampire lord regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The vampire lord moves up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Unarmed Strike. The vampire lord makes one Unarmed Strike. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The vampire lord makes one Bite attack or one Greatsword attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The vampire lord uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 17751
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded

