# Vampire, Shroud-Eater

**description**: Handsome and youthful-looking with blond hair, slightly pointed ears, and piercing blue eyes, this vampire has a definite air of arrogance as he regards everything around him with barely concealed contempt. Sires and Slaves. A powerful strain of vampirism, shroud-eaters have a greater degree of free will from their sires, though they are bound by what is called the "Tree of Chains" a pyramid of control with a free-willed vampire at the summit and all those beneath it compelled to obedience. They cannot plot against or defy their sires, but otherwise they can create their own shroud-eaters beholden to them. Wise vampire hunters know to employ the speak with dead spell on a slain shroud-eater to discover its sire, following the Tree of Chains as far as they are able. Shroud-eaters can tolerate quite a bit of sunlight, and, as they grow older, they may withstand it for a longer time, though they still suffer from it and rarely venture out in the day unless forced to do so. Over time, shroud-eaters also learn to alter the memories of the living and to erase traces of their deeds from the minds of witnesses. A subtle shroud-eater may go undetected for ages. Unlike other vampires, shroud-eaters cannot be destroyed with a simple wooden stake. The stake must use wood of a white oak or white ash tree. Discovery of burnt groves of these trees serves as a sign that a shroud-eater may live in the area. Undead Nature. The vampire patrician doesn't require air. Vampires in Midgard Vampires rule the Blood Kingdom of Morgau openly, treating the living as cattle to be bought, sold, exploited, and drained of blood by their undead masters. King Lucan reigns supreme in Morgau. His sworn nobles and vampire progeny are the princes, princesses, dukes, and duchesses beneath him, all vampires of great power in their own right. The counts and countesses, who hold smaller territories or powerful monasteries for the King, rank slightly lower than the princes and duchesses. Generals and governors, vampires who command Morgau's troops or rule smaller fiefdoms, sit beneath the counts and countesses. Vampire patricians rank lowest among the vampire nobility and make up the majority of the lesser nobles, barons, lords, and ladies of the Blood Kingdom--still quite dangerous, and easily able to command darakhul, vampiric knights, and other servants. Vampire priestesses stand somewhat outside of the ranking of vampires in the Blood Kingdom, due to their association with the Blood Goddess' faith. Once a vampire joins the Red Sisters, she is bound to the Blood Goddess, but she is also afforded extra respect and status in Morgau, regardless of her sire or original place in the hierarchy. King Lucan and his court are the very first northern shroud-eaters and remain some of the strongest to this day. In the Southlands, shroud-eaters dwell within the Grand Necropolis of Siwal, and many inhabit an island known as the Pallid Court of Vampires within the Nurian city of Per-Bastet.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 45
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Creature Codex

