# Vampire

**description**: Traits Radiant Aversion. Each time the vampire takes radiant damage, they take an extra 10 radiant damage. Resting Place. When the vampire drops to 0 hit points and is not in sunlight, running water, or their resting place, the vampire teleports to their resting place. While in their resting place, the vampire is stable. After spending 1 hour in their resting place with 0 hit points, they regain 1 hit point. Turn Resistance. The vampire has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead. Actions Multiattack. The vampire makes two Claw attacks and, if possible, a Bite attack. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. If the target is Large or smaller, they are grappled (escape DC 18). While grappled in this way, the target is restrained. Moving while grappling a Medium or smaller creature doesn’t halve the vampire’s speed. A vampire can have only one target grappled in this way at a time. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature who is grappled by the vampire, incapacitated, or restrained. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by a number equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that number. The reduction lasts until reversed by a cure ailment power of 4th order or higher, a greater restoration spell, or a similar supernatural effect. The target dies if this attack reduces their hit point maximum to 0. A Humanoid slain in this way rises the following midnight as a vampire spawn under the vampire’s control. Exsanguinating Mist (Recharge 6 ). The vampire, along with anything they are wearing or carrying, turns into a cloud of blood-sucking mist. When they do, they release any creature they were grappling, and if the vampire was grappled or restrained, that effect ends for them. Then the vampire flies up to twice their speed to an unoccupied space. During this move, the vampire ignores difficult terrain, doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks, and can move through creatures and objects. Each creature the vampire passes through must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. At the end of this movement, the vampire transforms back into their previous form. Bonus Actions Beguile. The vampire targets one creature they can see within 30 feet of them and who can see them. The target must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target uses their reaction, if available, to move up to their speed to a location chosen by the vampire, then either makes a melee attack against a target of the vampire’s choice or falls prone (vampire’s choice). Creatures who can’t be charmed automatically succeed on this saving throw, and creatures who have advantage on saving throws against being charmed make this saving throw with advantage. Inhuman Agility. The vampire moves up to their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Reactions Run, My Child. When an ally the vampire can see takes damage, the vampire can command the ally to move up to their speed without provoking opportunity attacks. Utility Spells In addition to any other spells in this stat block, the vampire can cast the following spells, using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): At will: charm person A , detect thoughts A , disgui se self A , sending A 1/day each: clairvoyance + , geas +

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

