# Vampire Neophyte (PB 3)

**description**: They look like us. Sometimes they even act like us. But they are not like us. Lydia Lockwood, Occultist Vampirism is a curse of blood. A curse that harrows its victims, turning them into mirror-mockeries of life. They become beings of pure vitality that nonetheless hunger for life’s essence: blood. With that hunger comes power everlasting over life and death. By feeding, a vampire passes this curse onto their victims. Though vampires are fundamentally changed from their mortal forms, they retain the intellect and memories of their mortal selves. Vampire Spawn. A vampire’s power grows as they spend time in undeath. Vampire spawn, the youngest of their ilk, are barely separated from their mortal selves. They are driven by their thirst for blood and by their master’s orders. Thanks to adventurers and zealous priests, few vampire spawn survive long enough to become true vampires. True Vampire. After about a hundred years of undeath, a spawn grows in strength and intelligence, becoming a true vampire. They learn to control their thirst and earn new gifts, allowing them to turn their victims into vampire spawn and to charm humanoids. These benefits let the vampire blend into humanoid society, often by masquerading as a long-lost relative of their old family or taking up their former profession. Meanwhile, they carefully choose prey and build a protective army of spawn and thralls. Vampire Lord. Most vampire lords have spent more than three hundred years in undeath. Some are created through powerful magic. Most have been so corrupted by their curse that they have no moral code and stop at nothing to get what they want. After centuries of amassing resources, vampire lords have the power to achieve nearly any goal. Some build empires. Others seek godhood. A few lie dormant, buried in sarcophagi while the ages flow past, waiting to awaken in new worlds ripe for the plucking. Strengths and Weaknesses. Though most vampires shun sunlight, some know a secret ritual to counteract this weakness. Vampires don’t require food, water, or air, but their bodies become desiccated husks if they don’t regularly drink the blood of living beings. Each vampire has a special resting place, typically a coffin or similar vessel, where they can regenerate after an arduous battle. While thus recuperating, they can’t move. Vampire Thralls. True vampires and vampire lords can cast geas , which charms other creatures to do the vampire’s bidding. Vampires use this spell to charm creatures in positions of authority. Most have at least one or two thralls working in local governments, which allows the vampire to prey on the populace without any interference from law enforcement or military. Though magic makes reliable thralls, vampires also rely on promises and coercion to maintain a reliable feeding ground and enact sinister plots. Some humanoids are so desperate for power that they will kill for a vampire in exchange for a promise of being turned into one of the undead someday. Vampires also rely on their servants and supernatural abilities to uncover the crimes and misconduct of mortals in power. Those secrets are used to blackmail people into doing a vampire’s bidding. Whenever a servant disobeys a vampire, swift retribution comes in the form of teeth to the neck. At least they can serve as a drink. There is always another who can take the thrall’s place. Exsanguinating Weapons. Vampire lords can summon exsanguinating weapons made from the blood of their enemies. Only they can wield these weapons, and when a vampire is destroyed, their exsanguinating weapons disappear. The most infamous of these weapons is Sanguinus, the sword of Count Rhodar von Glauer. Blood-Starved Vampires. When a vampire goes without blood for a year or more, their body shrivels, becoming a living husk. The vampire’s thirst for blood becomes their singular focus as their weakened form craves it. These blood-starved vampires often band together for survival, since a single blow can turn one to dust. A blood-starved vampire must drink the blood of scores of humanoids to be restored to an unweakened state. Actions Signature Attack (Claws). Melee Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8 plus PB slashing damage. Beginning at 7th level, the neophyte can make this attack twice, instead of once, when they take the Attack action on their turn. Features 3 rd Level: Take Away ( 3 /Day). When the neophyte hits a creature with a signature attack, the neophyte grabs the target. The target is grappled (escape DC 10 plus PB), and the neophyte moves up to their speed without provoking attacks of opportunity (no action required). If the grappled creature is Medium or smaller, they don’t cost the neophyte extra movement. 5 th Level: Blood Seeker ( 3 /Day). As an action, the neophyte moves up to their speed toward a creature they can see within 60 feet of them. If the neophyte ends their movement within 5 feet of the creature, the target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 10 plus PB) and take 1d4 piercing damage plus PBd8 necrotic damage. The neophyte regains hit points equal to half the necrotic damage dealt. 7 th Level: Child of the Night ( 3 /Day). As a reaction to taking damage, the neophyte disappears in a cloud of bats and insects. Every enemy within 10 feet of the neophyte must make a DC 10 plus PB Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes PBd4 piercing damage plus PBd4 slashing damage. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. At the end of the turn, the neophyte reforms in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of where they disappeared.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Retainer

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

