# Varix and Thadeus

**description**: Varix and Thadeus Twinhelm share not only their ettin body but also a passion for all things magical. Together – not that they ever had a choice in the matter – they run Twinhelm's Emporium , a large shop with an impressive inventory of magical wares, many of which are crafted by Varix. Characters can find Twinhelm's Emporium in any urban setting, its brightly colored facade making it almost impossible to miss. Background Varix and Thadeus have no recollection of clan or kin, as they grew up in the care of an eccentric wizard, the late Belshabbara the Vexing – or "Mama Babbara,” as the ettin fondly named her. Belshabbara was a kind and maternal soul, but also prone to engage in dangerous and ethically dubious experiments. In a way, Varix and Thadeus are a result of one of these experiments, as Belshabbara wanted to see if she could imbue the ettin – who are usually dim-witted and aggressive – with a keen mind and amicable demeanor. The experiment was a partial success: while both Varix and Thadeus are more sociable than most of their kin, most of the intelligence went to Varix and Thadeus ended up with the winning personality. Extraordinarily cunning and with an innate affinity for magic, Varix was the perfect apprentice to Belshabbara. Thadeus, on the other hand, was much more interested in brawling, drinking, and carousing – a dichotomy between the heads that has led to many frustrations and arguments. When Belshabbara was winked out of existence during an ill-advised experiment involving a Sphere of Annihilation , the adolescent ettin grieved deeply for the loss of their "Mama Babbara.” Having to now fend for themselves, Varix and Thadeus decided to open up Twinhelm's Emporium. Here, they sell magical objects inherited from Belshabbara, crafted by Varix, or bartered by Thadeus. Roleplaying Varix & Thadeus Almost the only thing Varix and Thadeus have in common is their 10-foot tall, doughy body, which is typically clad in brightly colored silk shirts and pants (Thadeus is firmly in control of the ettin's wardrobe). Varix is calm, bookish, and surly – always reading, tinkering, or thinking. Thadeus, on the other hand, has a personality as colorful as his attire. He is boisterous, jovial, and always on his feet, moving the ettin's huge body around with uncanny agility – much to Varix' annoyance ("Would you mind? I can't read when you're prancing about like an owlbear in heat!”) Due to their differences in demeanor, the ettin's heads constantly have to compromise to accommodate each other. They have agreements about when Varix can sit down to craft and tinker (time Thadeus usually spends slowly drinking himself – and Varix – into a mindless stupor) and when Thadeus can leave their home to go shopping for fashionable clothes and bright decor (while Varix futilely attempts to read heavy tomes or ponder the intricacies of arcane magic). When engaging with customers, Thadeus usually does the talking ("Mama always said I had a knack for talking – mostly nonsense, she'd say, but any talk is better than no talk, as I see it”). Varix chimes in from time to time, either to correct Thadeus ("No, a Hat of Disguise won't actually turn you into an elf, as you well know, you oaf”) or to shush his rowdy twin ("By the Lady, Thadeus, would you quiet down – you shouldn't be laughing at your own jokes, anyway!”) Both heads share a love for their late mother, and often refer to her in wistful tones when they show off an item she was fond of ("Mama Babbara loved this broom – not because it could fly, but because we'd usually behave much better when she had it in hand!”)

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Giant (Ettin)
- Alignment: Neutral & Chaotic Good
- Expansion: 27827
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Wanderer's Guide to Enchanted Emporiums

