# Vecna the Archlich

**description**: On countless worlds, his name evokes tales of terror and cruelty: Vecna, the Undying King. Vecna, the Whispered One. Vecna, the Lord of the Rotted Tower. But Vecna had humble beginnings on the world of Oerth, where an order of wizards used him as a bootblack and scribe. He spent the better part of his childhood secretly educating himself in his masters’ arts. Once Vecna learned all he could, he massacred the wizards. He then recorded his every foul thought and dream as he started to write his Book of Vile Darkness . Vecna forged a kingdom on Oerth, but he grew bored with it after several centuries. He started inflicting suffering on other worlds. In this adventure, Vecna has risen to godhood on Oerth, but he seeks to become the most powerful god in existence and bend the multiverse to his will. By the time the characters are involved, Vecna’s master plan is almost complete. He has funneled a significant amount of his energy into weaving his ritual. Therefore, when the characters finally confront Vecna and try to save the multiverse, he is in his archlich form and not his divine form. Traits Legendary Resistance (5/Day). If Vecna fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Special Equipment. Vecna carries a magic dagger named Afterthought. In the hands of anyone other than Vecna, Afterthought is a +2 Dagger. Undying. If Vecna is slain, his soul refuses to accept its fate and lives on as a disembodied spirit that fashions a new body for itself after 1d100 years. Vecna’s new body appears within 100 miles of where he was slain. When the new body is complete, Vecna regains all his hit points and becomes active again. Actions Multiattack. Vecna uses Flight of the Damned (if available), Rotten Fate, or Spellcasting. He then makes two attacks with Afterthought. Afterthought. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it is afflicted by entropic magic, taking 9 (2d8) necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns. Immediately after taking this damage on its turn, the target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Until it succeeds on this save, the afflicted target can’t regain hit points. Flight of the Damned (Recharge 5–6). Vecna conjures a torrent of flying, spectral entities that fill a 120-foot cone and pass through all creatures in that area before dissipating. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 36 (8d8) necrotic damage and has the frightened condition for 1 minute. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage only. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Rotten Fate. Vecna causes necrotic magic to engulf one creature he can see within 120 feet of himself. The target must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 96 (8d8 + 60) necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A Humanoid killed by this magic rises as a zombie at the start of Vecna’s next turn and acts immediately after Vecna in the initiative order. The zombie is under Vecna’s control. Spellcasting. Vecna casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 22): At will: Animate Dead (as an action) , Detect Magic, Dispel Magic, Fly, Lightning Bolt, Mage Hand, Prestidigitation 2/day each: Dimension Door, Invisibility, Scrying (as an action) 1/day each: Dominate Monster, Globe of Invulnerability, Plane Shift (self only) Bonus Actions Vile Teleport. Vecna teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. He can cause each creature of his choice within 15 feet of his destination space to take 10 (3d6) psychic damage. If at least one creature takes this damage, Vecna regains 80 hit points. Reactions Vecna can take up to three reactions per round but only one per turn. Dread Counterspell. Vecna utters a dread word to interrupt a creature he can see that is casting a spell. If the spell is 4th level or lower, it fails and has no effect. If the spell is 5th level or higher, Vecna makes an Intelligence check (DC 10 plus the spell’s level). On a successful check, the spell fails and has no effect. Whatever the spell’s level, the caster takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage if the spell fails. Fell Rebuke. In response to being hit by an attack, Vecna utters a fell word, dealing 10 (3d6) necrotic damage to the attacker, and Vecna teleports, along with any equipment he is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space he can see.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead (Wizard)
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 30583
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Vecna - Eve of Ruin

