# Veiled Hunter

**description**: Once a simple woodsman and hunter who lived a quiet life in Jägerweiler Village, Brayden Lilyguard was chosen by the Obitus Scholare as one of the first to undergo their eldritch experiments. After being infused with the dead cerebro-spinal fluid of an eldritch entity (see “Part Three: The Eldritch Temple”), he gained inhuman strength, speed, and the ability to tap into the natural world of the forest he loved so dearly. But as time went on, he and his fellow huntsman began to change. They began hearing dark whispers in their minds that eventually became a cacophony of terrifying screams. Their bodies morphed and changed into feral creatures. Brayden fared better than his comrades in retaining most of his sanity, but couldn’t stop the change into the specter-like being he had become. In the church’s attempt to wipe them out with a flood of acid, he died. Years later, under the sky of a Blood Moon of Rebirth he was brought back, a mask adorning his face. he gathered the mutated "survivors'' and rebuilt the village into what it is today. As the Veiled Hunter, his only passion is for the survival of his remaining people and the utter destruction of those he holds responsible. More information on the Veiled Hunter can be read in the Vile Village adventure. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The Hunter’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). The Hunter can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: druidcraft 3/day each: blight, dominate beast, spike growth Eldritch Mask. The Hunter's mask is the source of its power. The mask has AC 22 and 25 hit points. The mask is immune to all damage except bludgeoning, fire, force, piercing, and slashing damage and it doesn’t take damage from effects that target an area. While the Hunter is wearing its mask, it has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects, can cast speak with animals and plants at will, and can’t be deafened or magically put to sleep. If the mask is destroyed, it loses these benefits. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the Hunter fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Treestep. Once on its turn, the Hunter can use 10 feet of its movement to step magically into one living tree within its reach and emerge from a second living tree within 60 feet of the first tree, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second tree. Both trees must be Large or bigger. After using this trait, the hunter gains the benefits of the barkskin spell until the start of its next turn. Actions Multiattack. The Hunter makes two attacks: one with its gravetouch and one with its maggotspit. Gravetouch. Melee Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (6d6 + 4) necrotic damage. Maggotspit. Melee Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (8d4 + 4) poison damage and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature can repeat this saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Rootprison (Recharge 4-6). The Hunter chooses up to five creatures within 30 feet of a tree the Hunter can see. Each creature must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 18 (4d8) piercing damage and is restrained for 1 minute. Whenever a restrained creature uses its action to make an attack or cast a spell, it takes 9 (2d8) piercing damage. A creature can use its action to make a DC 15 Athletics check to break itself or another creature within its reach free, ending the effect on that creature on a success. Wooden Labyrinth. The Hunter chooses a creature it can see within 120 feet of it. The target must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the creature becomes magically lost, automatically failing all Nature and Survival checks it makes for the next 24 hours and being unable to escape the woods. The creature isn't aware of this effect. On a success, the creature is immune to this effect for the next 24 hours and knows it was targeted by some sort of magic. Bonus Actions They Have Eyes. The Hunter transport its senses into any tree within 500 miles of it that it has seen, seeing and hearing as if it occupied the tree’s space, until it ends the effect (no action required). During this time, it is blind and deaf in regard to its own senses. Reactions House of Leaves (3/Day). When the Hunter is hit by an attack, it turns into a pile of leaves and reappears in the branches of a tree within 60 feet of it, causing the attack to miss.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

