# Velomachus Lorehold

**description**: Velomachus Lorehold was the first dragon of Strixhaven to master the magic of order and chaos, the flow and prediction of events through time. Her magic encourages exploration and discovery through the lens of creating a direct conduit to the past. She founded Lorehold College to ensure mortals would never forget the lessons of the past. After living for centuries, Velomachus has grown tired of watching the same mistakes repeated continually. She hopes her college’s teachings will foster the skills to either predict future pitfalls by taking lessons from those that came before or create flexible mindsets that allow people to shift their plans effectively when the unexpected occurs. Velomachus’s spells, legendary actions, and breath weapon are accompanied by visual effects resembling tomes and scrolls composed of golden light, perceptible distortions as time doubles back on itself, and thunderous sounds. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Velomachus fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. Velomachus makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (1d10 + 10) piercing damage plus 6 (1d12) thunder damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (1d6 + 10) slashing damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it is knocked prone. Battle Tide Breath (Recharge 5–6). Velomachus exhales thunderous sound in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 25 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 45 (7d12) force damage and 45 (7d12) thunder damage and is pushed up to 20 feet in a horizontal direction of Velomachus’ choice. On a success, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed. Objects that aren’t being worn or carried take the damage and are pushed as if they were creatures that failed the saving throw. Spellcasting. Velomachus casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability: 1/day each: contact other plane (as an action, contacting a long-dead spirit), divination , move earth , wall of force Legendary Actions Velomachus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Velomachus regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Claw. Velomachus makes one Claw attack. Chaotic Flow (Costs 2 Actions). Velomachus moves up to half her flying speed. If a creature hits or misses her with an opportunity attack during this move, the attacker takes 19 (3d12) thunder damage. Repeating History (Costs 3 Actions). Velomachus magically summons 1d4 spirit statue mascots (in this chapter) in unoccupied spaces she can see within 60 feet of herself. The spirit statues obey her commands and take their turns immediately after hers. Any creature, other than a spirit statue or Velomachus, is restrained if it starts its turn within 5 feet of one or more of these spirit statues. This restrained condition lasts until the end of the creature’s turn. These spirit statues disappear after 10 minutes, when Velomachus dies, or when she uses this action again.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon (Wizard)
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 12501
- Challenge Rating: 25

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Strixhaven A Curriculum of Chaos

