# Venusi

**description**: Venusi (singular and plural) are alien plants native to the steaming jungles of a verdant far-off world. Among the deadliest predators of their homeworld, they are quite intelligent and wield great psychic power, using it to learn about the world around them and to secure servants to safeguard it and bring it prey. Venusi are solitary hunters, able to dissolve the flesh of other creatures with their enzymatic sap. Trapped or injured creatures are reduced to a fetid chyme which the venusi absorbs for its sustenance. They become torpid when food is scarce; however, it rarely needs to hunt on its own, as its psychic powers enable it to locate potential prey and inveigle it within its reach, or to enslave others to its will and force them to bring it offerings and sacrifices. Particularly useful servants may be implanted with one of the venusi many nodes, dissolving its nervous system from the inside and replacing it with a network of microtendril fibers that resonate with the venusi's mental impulses, making their commands nearly impossible to resist. Solitary and Wary. Venusi dislike competition and rarely tolerate the presence of other venusi in territory they claim as their own. However, they are cunning strategists and may use their psychic powers to communicate with other venusi far away and coordinate their efforts or share bits of knowledge and lore. Unlike terrestrial plants, Venusi can enter a meditative dream state akin to sleep (though they are not subject to sleep effects) and can use their dream mastery to venture far from their homes to other lands or even other worlds. Neurological Scholars. Venusi are wary of arcane and divine spellcasters but always curious to examine the minds of psychic magic users. They may carefully dissolve the flesh of their victims while carefully preserving the brains of psychic creatures in order to study them. They are also very inquisitive and seek to learn all they can about new lands they enter, looking to find a safe and secure haven before exploring their new home. A Curious Diaspora. The homeworld of the venusi is believed to be one of the far-flung homeworlds of the elven race. On this green planet, the venusi long grew in the reeking acid jungles of the planet's torrid zone and had little contact with the few elves that remained behind. However, when an exodus occurred from the elven colony worlds back to their home planets an age ago, their spreading numbers attracted the attention of the venusi, who began venturing out of their purple jungles to learn more of this strange humanoid species that had long shared their world. They watched them from afar and began capturing elves and carrying them off to their jungles, sending back assimilated servants to spy on their fellows and find new places for the venusi to explore and colonize. The elves regarded them as hostile invaders and warred against them, while also descending into civil war as paranoia rose about those that had been infected or assimilated to serve the venusi. Many elves sought a return to the colony worlds, and the venusi perceived their intentions and followed along, spreading into new worlds in the wake of elves fleeing the homeworld. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.StatBlock1, li.StatBlock1, div.StatBlock1 {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1 Char"; margin-top:0cm; margin-right:0cm; margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:9.35pt; text-indent:-9.35pt; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}span.StatBlock1Char {mso-style-name:"Stat Block 1 Char"; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-locked:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-style-link:"Stat Block 1"; mso-ansi-font-size:8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Verdana; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-font-family:Verdana; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: plant
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

