# Verdure Druid

**description**: Verdure druids see themselves as protectors of all plant life. They dedicate their lives ensuring the natural life cycle, growth, and continued existence of all flora. Benevolent Workers. Good-aligned verdure druids acknowledge the value of other life forms and strive to have a harmonious relationship between flora and fauna. They recognize that one cannot exist without the other, and thus endeavor to resolve any conflict between flora and other life forms through peaceful means. Violence and destruction is only a last recourse to resolve an issue. Territorial Wardens. Neutral-aligned verdure druids value flora over all life forms, and will protect them fiercely if harmed. They tolerate the presence of other forest beings, such as elves and fey, and view all others with suspicion. While they will always prioritize resolving conflict peacefully, neutral-aligned verdure druids will not hesitate to use violence, especially if the opposing parties are intruding in territories they have sworn to protect. They will kill if they must, but only as a last option. Fanatic Bigots. Evil-aligned verdure druids are extremists who see all other lifeforms as threats to the existence of flora. They actively seek opportunities to harm other beings, especially intelligent ones, and use their corpses as carcasses as compost. Evil-aligned verdure druids are often in the company of corrupted and monstrous plants like blights and shambling mounds, which they amass as armies. These druids scheme and work with evil fey like hags, which they see as instruments they can wield until they are no longer of use to them. Actions Spore Strike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) poison damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is poisoned for 1 minute and the creature suffers an additional effect of the druid's choice: 1. Charm. While poisoned in this way, the creature is charmed. 2. Madness. While poisoned in this way, the creature must move up to its speed to the nearest creature it can see and use its action to make a melee attack against a randomly determined creature within its reach. 3. Paralysis. While poisoned in this way, the creature is paralyzed. A creature can have only one poison effect at a time. If a creature receives a new poison effect, the previous one immediately ends. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the poison effect on itself on a success. Ensnaring Vegetation (Recharge 5–6). The druid targets one or more creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Grasping thorny and poisonous roots and vines sprout underneath each target and attempt to envelop it. Each target must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling vegetation for 1 minute. While restrained in this way, a creature takes 7 (2d6) piercing damage and 7 (2d6) poison damage at the end of each of its turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 13 Strength check, escaping from the vegetation on a success. The vegetation can also be destroyed to end the effect. The entangling vegetation has AC 10, 10 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, poison, and psychic damage. Summon Plants (1/Day). The druid conjures Plant creatures whose combined average hit points don’t exceed 60. These creatures magically sprout from the ground in unoccupied spaces within 60 feet of the druid, obey its commands, and immediately act after the druid's turn. It remains until it or the druid dies, until the druid uses Summon Plants again, or until the druid dismisses it as an action. Spellcasting. The druid casts one of the following spells using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): At will: druidcraft, guidance, resistance, speak with plants 2/day each: barkskin, entangle, goodberry 1/day each: pass without trace, plant growth

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

