# Verlathis

**description**: Along the Eren River, between the cities of Erenhead and Eisin, lies Grover’s Hollow, a small town with a big secret. The dragon Verlathis makes her lair in a secret cavern complex beneath the town’s center. This secret is known only to a few of the town elders—outside the town, it is unknown. Grover’s Hollow, known only for the sweet apples grown in its orchards and several miles from the river proper, is not a very important part of Izrador’s empire, and thus the secret has been safe all these years. Verlathis came to these caverns almost a thousand years ago, before the town was settled, and she has watched it grow ever since. It began as a small village of gnomes who wished to leave the river life of their people behind while maintaining a close connection to their families. After a few decades, it gained a reputation as a refugee town that welcomed newcomers regardless of their culture or background. As Grover’s Hollow grew, Verlathis chose to reveal herself to the gentle people that lived in the village and, using her shapechange and charm abilities, was able to gain the friendship of several of the town elders, who swore to protect her secret. Ever since, the dragon and the town have lived together in peace, and Verthalis has used her considerable powers to keep the worst of the orcs’ depredations from plaguing the people of Grover’s Hollow. Dragons Aryth’s dragons are each unique creatures whose abilities are not defined by the color of their scales. Their coloring may range from silver-gray or mottled green to deep black, and have features that vary from spiked armor plating to long snouts, allowing them to be easily differentiated from one another by those who are versed in draconic lore. The dragons are ancient creatures, perhaps even immortal, who have watched the growth and trials of the peoples of Aryth for thousands of years. They rarely involve themselves in the affairs of mortals, and when they do it is on their terms. They are not driven by the riches or power offered by the rulers of nations, but have their own motivations that are seldom fathomable by less long-lived races. The most notable exception to this was the corruption of many dragons by Izrador’s whisperings at the end of the Second Age. Although the dragons that survive today are fractured and individual, it was not always so. A sovereign once ruled dragonkind, and the dragons befriended the elder fey and were content to share the world with them. The Sundering had a terrible impact on both the dragons’ minds and their civilization as a whole, however, and they were split into many different factions that warred with each other throughout much of the First Age, even as the fey were splitting into the races now found throughout Aryth. These wars ravaged much of the world’s dragon population, until finally only a few hundred remained. The Battle of the Wall at the end of the Second Age further reduced this number. Today, a handful of dragons still serve the Shadow, whether driven to his side by madness or warped by the temptation of promises too alluring to resist. Those that are sympathetic to the oppressed people of Aryth hide from the world, helping where they can but fearful of being discovered and suffering the full wrath of the dark god and his Night Kings. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Verlathis fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Innate Spellcasting. Verlathis’s spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 18). Verlathis can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 1/day each: firestorm, regenerate 3/day each: greater restoration, insect plague, wall of stone 3/day each: call lightning, dispel magic, wind wall Actions Multiattack. Verlathis can use her Frightful Presence. She then makes three attacks: one with her bite and two with her claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10+7) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6+7) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8+7) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 21 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away from Verlathis and knocked prone. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Verlathis’s choice that is within 120 feet of Verlathis and aware of her must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Verlathis’s Frightful Presence for one hour. Breath Weapon (Recharge 5-6). Verlathis uses one of the following breath weapons. Acid Breath. Verlathis exhales acid in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 54 (12d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. Sleep Breath. Verlathis exhales sleep gas in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or fall unconscious for 10 minutes. This effect ends for a creature if the creature takes damage or someone uses an action to wake it. Change Shape. Verlathis magically polymorphs into a humanoid or beast that has a challenge rating no higher than her own, or back into her true form. She reverts into her true form if she dies. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (Verlathis’s choice). In a new form, Verlathis retains her alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, Legendary Resistance, lair actions, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this action. Her statistics and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of the new form, except any class features or legendary actions of that form. Legendary Actions Verlathis can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options listed here. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Verlathis regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Detect. Verlathis makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. Verlathis makes a tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 actions). Verlathis beats her wings. Each creature within 10 feet of Verlathis must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (2d6+7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Verlathis can then fly up to half her flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

