# Vernassian Bloodmoth

**description**: Vernassian bloodmoths get their name from their seasonal population explosions. Each year, around the time of the vernal equinox, these moths begin to hatch from their clutches and emerge from their wintering sites in great numbers. Though mostly colorless when they first emerge from their cocoons, these giant insects turn an array of pastel colors after their first feeding. Deadly IIII Swarms. Bloodmoths like to hunt in swarms, and when gathered in groups can be a death sentence even to veteran explorers and adventurers. Common sense among those in the know dictates that one does not go into their territory with an open wound or a noisy companion. The bloodmoths swarm in such numbers that they have even been known to tear into their own kind when caught in their frenzied bloodlust should a moth become wounded in battle with its prey. Tactics. Though still Dangerous II alone, bloodmoths hunt in swarms to take advantage of each others' ability to inflict the Jabbed Injury. Once the Injury has been inflicted, all bloodmoths in the area will flock to the Injured creature, seeking to drain it of its remaining hit points before moving on to the next closest living creature with blood. Moths that can't get to the target may swarm mindlessly, or take a stab at the next closest prey that puts up a fight. When Injured, a bloodmoth attempts to flee, though it may end up devoured by its brethren if the remaining prey are all killed or have all fled and the moth swarm is not satiated. Traits Bloodscent. The bloodmoth can discern the presence of creatures that have sustained an Injury as though it had blindsight out to a range of 300 feet. Additionally, it can sense the general direction of Injured creatures as long as there is air connecting the space between it and the Injured creature out to a range of 2 miles. Swarm Tactics. The bloodmoth has advantage on attack rolls against creatures within 5 feet of one of its allies. The bloodmoth also deals an additional 2 damage with its attacks if the target of its attack is adjacent to at least two of its allies. Actions Piercing Proboscis. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8+3) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury of Dangerous II severity, "Jabbed". While Injured in this way, a creature takes an additional 5 damage from any attack made against them. If a creature would gain this Injury again, it instead takes another 5 additional damage from that attack (total of 10 additional damage). A creature automatically recovers from the Punctured Injury at the end of a short rest in which it spends at least one hit die. A creature can also attempt to recover at the end of its turn by spending a hit die without regaining hit points and succeeding on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. Bonus Actions Revitalizing Drain (recharge 5-6). As a bonus action on a turn in which the bloodmoth hit an Injured creature with its Piercing Proboscis attack, the bloodmoth can cause that creature to lose 7 (2d6) hit points, with the bloodmoth regaining hit points equal to the amount lost.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: beast
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

