# Vex'ahlia de Rolo

**description**: Vex’ahlia was one of the first members of Vox Machina when those adventurers initially met in Stilben, along with her twin brother, Vax’ildan. Today, she is one of the most influential people in Tal’Dorei. She sits on the Tal’Dorei Council as Master of Commerce and is Whitestone’s Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt, a champion of the Dawnfather, and a hero beloved by all who know the legend of Vox Machina. Her charm and skill with a bow are legendary, and she is equally dedicated to changing the world as she is to raising her five children in Whitestone. Charming and Incorrigible. As an adventurer, Vex’ahlia was known for being resolute and confident even in the face of unspeakable despair. The stories told of Vex revolve around her cunning, her flirtatious charm, and her propensity for haggling—an expression of her impoverished childhood in the wildlands of Tal'Dorei. The hardships she has endured and overcome have not changed her for the worse, though. She is the same Vex’ahlia that is remembered in the legends, just with a few more gray hairs and somehow even more responsibilities. Even her beloved animal companion, the brown bear Trinket, is still by her side—though age has slowed him somewhat. His young cub is now a well-behaved playmate for the youngest de Rolo children. After the Epilogue. Though she’s better known for her archery skill, Vex’ahlia’s capability with coin made her an easy choice for election to the Tal’Dorei Council as Master of Commerce. She makes frequent use of a teleportation circle to travel between Castle Whitestone and Traverse Junction in Emon, making it possible to fulfill her duties to both the Chamber of Whitestone and the Tal’Dorei Council. Though she has generally left her adventuring life behind her, she does occasionally sortie with the Grey Hunters to eliminate threats to the continued peace and prosperity of Tal’Dorei. Vox Machina Heroes. Scoundrels. Legends. Dumbasses. The legacy of the adventuring party Vox Machina is a complicated one. Over the course of their adventures, they’ve selflessly saved the lives of thousands of people in Tal’Dorei, Wildemount, Issylra, and beyond. Of course, there are also countless tales of individuals they’ve bullied, threatened, insulted, or otherwise needlessly antagonized throughout those same adventures. These legendary figures grew from a band of dime-a-dozen sellswords in the swamp burgh of Stilben to gods-blessed warriors whose actions might have saved all of Exandria from a future of undead tyranny. The deeds of Vox Machina are sung by bards across Tal’Dorei, often exaggerating those already belief-defying tales of gods and monsters and magic. But though their legend has grown wild and unruly, the members of Vox Machina are still people. More than twenty years have passed since their last great campaign. Most of them are still alive, and the lives of these heroes have changed—in big ways and in smaller, more subtle ones. Those among them who age have softer bodies and lines on their faces. Those among them who don’t age still show the weight of the world upon their shoulders. By and large, the members of Vox Machina have set aside weapons, armor, and spells in favor of more subtle ways of helping others. Some lead the lands they were born to lead. Others have been elected to the Tal’Dorei Council, shaping the fate of the continent’s people with quiet wisdom rather than blades and battle cries. Still, each member of this legendary band of adventurers would take up arms again in an instant if it meant protecting those they care for the most. And the Vestiges of Divergence, whose power they unlocked in the battles against the Cinder King and the Whispered One, are still within their grasp. The following stat blocks are here for GMs to use if their players encounter a member of Vox Machina—hopefully as an ally or a "quest giver," for woe betide anyone who encounters these legendary heroes as a foe. These statistics don’t represent the full extent of the characters’ abilities as 20th-level adventurers, but have been streamlined to make them easier for the Game Master to run. Traits Assassinate. During her first turn, Vex has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn. Any hit Vex scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit. Evasion. If Vex is subjected to an effect that allows her to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, she instead takes no damage if she succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if she fails. Fey Ancestry. Vex has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put her to sleep. Ranged Master. Vex’s ranged weapon attacks have a +2 bonus to hit (included in attacks), and ignore half cover and three-quarters cover, and have no range penalty. Additionally, Vex can take a −5 penalty to any ranged attack roll to gain a +10 bonus to the damage roll. Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Vex deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage when she hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of Vex that isn’t incapacitated and she doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Special Equipment. Vex wears +2 studded white dragon leather armor of cold resistance and a ring of protection with a +2 bonus. She carries a broom of flying and a raven's slumber , and wields Fenthras . Spellcasting. Vex is a 13th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). She has the following ranger spells prepared: 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, hunter’s mark (see bonus actions) 2nd level (3 slots): pass without trace, protection from poison 3rd level (3 slots): lightning arrow, nondetection 4th level (1 slot): freedom of movement, grasping vin e Trinket. Trinket moves and acts on Vex’s turn, and Vex can use a bonus action to command him to take the Dash, Dodge, Disengage, or Attack action. She can also command him to Attack as part of her Multiattack action (see below). Trinket can take only one action on each of Vex’s turns. Actions Multiattack. Vex makes two ranged attacks, and can command Trinket to move up to his speed and use his Multiattack action. Fenthras. Ranged Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, range 600 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (1d8 + 18) piercing damage and 3 (1d6) lightning damage, and Vex can use the following ability: Bramble Shot (2/Short Rest) . The attack deals an extra 18 (4d8) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be restrained. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bonus Actions Cunning Action. Vex takes the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. Hunter’s Mark. Vex casts hunter’s mark to mark a creature she can see within 90 feet of her. For 1 hour, Vex’s weapon attacks deal an extra 1d6 damage to the marked creature, and she has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks made to find it. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. When an attacker that Vex can see hits her with an attack, she takes half damage from the attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (half-elf)
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

