# Vicar Priscilla

**description**: Vicar Priscilla was a fearless warrior and a beloved and revered member of the Radiant Church. Despite her frailty, she was devoted to her faith and among the first to join the ranks of the hunters. Her efforts, were not in vain, as she fought beast after beast, decimating their ranks and rescuing Luyarnha from the depths of the abyss. Yet during the 33rd Hunt, when all thought that the scourge was over, she found herself facing creatures from beyond the realms of human understanding. A malice so vile that it curled up her spine, this evil was the convergence of the void, the infinite expanse beyond what lies dormant. She had never experienced anything like the horrific struggle that took place. Though she repelled the entity, it was no victory; all who survived that night were left on the brink of despair. Her spirit had been broken, her loved ones had been slaughtered, and her insignificance had been laid bare before her. A shattered moon rose that night. She vowed not to allow such atrocities be in vain, pouring months of research alongside scholars of the Church, attempting to pierce the creature’s secret. From the mound of flesh that she hacked from the being, and the maddened knowledge she gained, Priscilla fashioned a sword of pure moonlight—a blade that could alter fate. Priscilla blazed a new path through the plague-filled streets with renewed zeal, strengthening her hunters with her enhanced arcane powers. Nonetheless, she suffered defeat once more. She was abandoned on the pavement, her coven shattered. That night she vanished. It is believed that her broken body was restored, and that she now spends her days in her chambers in quiet reflection, seeking guidance from a higher power. Covertly, there are hunters who claim they still see her during gruesome hunts, leading forces to victory with her shard of moonlight in hand. Traits Divine Warrior. Vicar Priscilla's weapon attacks deal an extra 7 (2d6) radiant damage on a hit (included in the attacks). Honed Reflexes. Vicar Priscilla can take two reactions per round, but no more than one reaction per turn. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Vicar Priscilla fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Vicar Priscilla has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Special Equipment. Vicar Priscilla has a Shard of Moonlight . She cannot be disarmed of it while she is conscious. Spellcasting. Vicar Priscilla is an 11th-level spellcaster. Her spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). Vicar Priscilla has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): guidance, light, sacred flame, spare the dying 1st level (4 slots): bless, burning hands, command, faerie fire, healing word 2nd level (3 slots): hold person, scorching ray, spiritual weapon 3rd level (3 slots): daylight, dispel magic, fireball, mass healing word 4th level (3 slots): banishment, dimension door, guardian of faith, wall of fire 5th level (2 slots): flame strike, geas, mass cure wounds, scrying 6th level (1 slots): heal, word of recall Actions Multiattack. Vicar Priscilla makes two Shard of Moonlight attacks. Shard of Moonlight. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) radiant damage, or 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) radiant damage if the blade is transformed. Bonus actions Divine Dash. Vicar Priscilla moves up to 40 feet in a straight line. Legendary Actions Vicar Priscilla can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Vicar Priscilla regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Beckon the Moon. Vicar Priscilla raises the Shard of Moonlight at the moon and the blade gains or loses 3 (1d4 + 1) charges, according to Vicar Priscilla's will. Strike. Vicar Priscilla makes a Shard of Moonlight attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Vicar Priscilla casts a spell she has prepared. Vanish (Costs 2 Actions). Vicar Priscilla expends 5 charges from her Shard of Moonlight to step into the Ethereal Plane until the start of her next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (half-elf)
- Alignment: lawful neutral
- Expansion: 27461
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

