# Vilderavn Herald

**description**: In its true form, a vilderavn is a great raven with a wingspan of 6–8 feet. An adaptable shapeshifter, it can change to the fighting forms of a snarling wolf, a hybrid of wolf and raven, or a tall humanoid in black armor with a massive greatsword. Vilderavn heralds often seek to serve those more powerful than typical mortal rulers, and often serve the Eldest of the First World. Traits Bloodraven. The vilderavn’s attacks carry a curse. When a creature other than a construct, elemental, ooze, or undead takes damage from the vilderavn’s melee attacks, the target loses 7 (2d6) hit points at the start of each of its turns due to a cursed wound. Each time the vilderavn hits the wounded target with a melee attack, the damage dealt by the wound increases by 7 (2d6). Any creature can take an action to stanch the wound with a successful DC 16 Wisdom (Medicine) check. The wound also closes if the target receives magical healing or is the recipient of remove curse . Flyby. The vilderavn herald doesn’t provoke an opportunity attack when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. Magic Resistance. The vilderavn herald has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Raven Knight. When a vilderavn herald assumes humanoid form with its change shape ability, it gains a magical greatsword formed from its vicious talons. This is part of the vilderavn herald’s being and disappears when it is slain. Shatter Loyalties. A vilderavn herald’s frightful presence creates disloyalty, doubt, and dissension in addition to fear. Creatures that fail their saves are no longer treated as allies to other creatures and can’t use the Help action or allow other creatures to move through their space. Any spell or effect that requires a willing target fails if used on an affected creature, and even harmless effects require an attack roll (if applicable) and require affected creatures to attempt a saving throw to resist their effects (if a save is allowed). Creatures that are immune to fear can still be affected by the shatter loyalties ability of a vilderavn herald’s frightful presence; they ignore the frightened condition but are otherwise affected as described above. Soul Eater. A vilderavn herald’s bite attack scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. If a vilderavn herald kills a humanoid with a critical hit from its bite attack, it can tear out the victim’s heart and consume its soul, killing the creature immediately. Creatures that witness this must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. While the target remains dead, the vilderavn herald gains access to that creature’s memories and can use its change shape ability to assume a perfect likeness of the slain creature, gaining advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks made to impersonate it. The vilderavn herald can store any number of souls. Slaying the vilderavn herald ends all its ongoing soul eater effects and frees any stored souls. Innate Spellcasting. A vilderavn herald’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). A vilderavn herald can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: freedom of movement, haste, tongues, true seeing 3/day each: bestow curse, detect thoughts, dispel magic, fear, scrying, suggestion 1/day each: geas, mass suggestion, modify memory, plane shift (ethereal only), spirit guardians Actions Multiattack. The vilderavn herald can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes three attacks: two with its claws and once with its bite or with its greatsword. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 26 (6d6+5) slashing damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 32 (6d8+5) piercing damage. Cruel Keen Greatsword (Humanoid form only). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 38 (6d10+5) slashing damage. Change Shape. The vilderavn magically polymorphs into a Medium humanoid, a wolf, or a wolf/raven hybrid (a wolf with talons and wings or a Small raven with a wolf’s head). The humanoid form’s breastplate and greatsword are absorbed in the vilderavn’s beast and hybrid forms; all other equipment falls to the ground. Frightful Presence. Each creature of the vilderavn herald’s choice that is within 120 feet of the vilderavn herald and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the vilderavn herald’s Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions A vilderavn herald can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. A vilderavn herald regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Mobility. The vilderavn herald moves up to its speed. This movement does not provoke opportunity attacks. Attack. The vilderavn herald makes an attack with its bite or greatsword. Resist. The vilderavn herald ends one condition currently effecting it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

