# Vile Reconstructor

**description**: A small, lithe humanoid with pale skin and a maw of needle-sharp teeth looks up through a monocular fused to one of its beady eyes. Several curious tools and devices are affixed to a belt around its waist. Three rod-tipped mechanical arms protrude from its back, each whirring and gesticulating in concordance with the creature’s erratic motions. Cousins to the sinister vile barbers (see Tome of Beasts ), these impish unseelie fey are often tasked with resetting the triggers of complex traps and other contraptions. Their ability to traverse shadows, combined with their uncanny mechanical acumen and eldritch implants, enable vile reconstructors to infiltrate many places considered dangerous or unreachable. Bad Science. Upon its enlistment or enslavement, a vile reconstructor is subjected to a series of physical and mental modifications under the supervision of an alchemist, wizard, or other individual who specializes in creating constructs or manipulating bodies. These procedures bestow upon the creature an array of heightened abilities and a macabre complement of skin-grafted tools and weapons, fracturing its mind in the process. A vile reconstructor is most often fitted with leftover mechanical parts from constructs, but unusual varieties of vile reconstructors, such as creatures with tentacles or the arms of a different creature instead of mechanical extremities, have been encountered in the wild. Inconvenient Saboteurs. Adventurers most often encounter vile reconstructors when they are in the act of repairing or resetting traps or other mechanisms, but they are sometimes spotted in the most awkward and ill-timed of circumstances. The creatures delight in making those moments as deadly as possible in an effort to please themselves and satisfy the whims of their twisted creators. TRAITS Inhumanly Quick. The vile reconstructor can take two bonus actions on its turn instead of one. It can’t use the same bonus action twice during the same turn. Monocular Graft. The vile reconstructor has advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) and Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. ACTIONS Multiattack. The vile reconstructor makes one Mechanical Claw attack and one Torch Rod attack, or it makes two Torch Rod attacks. Mechanical Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage. Torch Rod. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) fire damage or lightning damage (the vile reconstructor’s choice). Mending Rod. The vile reconstructor touches an object with one of its rod-tipped arms and repairs the object. This effect works like the mending spell, except that the vile reconstructor can repair an object that measures up to 5 feet in any dimension. BONUS ACTIONS Mock. The vile reconstructor mocks a creature within 60 feet that can hear it. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw, or attack rolls against it are made with advantage until the end of its next turn. Nimble Escape. The vile reconstructor can take the Disengage or Hide action. Shadow Step. While in dim light or darkness, the vile reconstructor magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dim light or darkness.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

