# Virtuoso Balladeer

**description**: A graceful and soulful minstrel, the balladeer possesses a gift for weaving haunting melodies and poignant tales of love and loss. Often clad in rich crimson or purple attire, its slight stature belies the depth of emotion that resonates within its voice. Evocative Songs. With delicate fingers gracefully caressing the strings of a lute, it delves into the depths of the heart, drawing forth both the tenderest of yearnings and the deepest sorrows. Its haunting ballads, filled with melancholic melodies and heartfelt lyrics, enchants audiences, leaving them immersed in a sea of bittersweet emotions. Emotional Resonance . The balladeer's performances are a conduit for catharsis, a sanctuary for the lovesick and the broken-hearted to find solace in shared tales of romantic longing and laments of lost love. Its voice echoes through moonlit halls, captivating listeners with a delicate combination of vulnerability and resilience. Actions Multiattack. The balladeer makes two Dagger attacks. Alternatively, it can make one Dagger attack and use Charm, Command Thrall, or Spellcasting. Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic damage and the target has disadvantage to Wisdom saving throws until the end of the balladeer's next turn. Charm. Up to two humanoids the balladeer can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 hour. The charmed target obeys the balladeer's verbal commands. If the target suffers any harm or receives a suicidal command, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. If the target successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune to this balladeer's Charm for the next 24 hours. The balladeer can have up to two targets charmed at a time. If it charms another, the effect on one of the previous targets ends (balladeer's choice). Command Thrall. The balladeer targets one humanoid creature charmed by it. The target must use its reaction and move up to half its speed and make one weapon attack against a visible creature of the balladeer's choice. Spellcasting. The balladeer casts one of the following spells using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): At will: message, minor illusion, vicious mockery (3d4) 2/day each: bestow curse, cure wounds, enthrall, suggestion 1/day each: compulsion, major image, mass suggestion, modify memory Bonus Actions Ballad. The balladeer can perform a ballad that lasts until the start of the balladeer's next turn. The balladeer can select from one of two effects: 1. Song of Inspiration. Provided the balladeer isn't incapacitated, an allied creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the balladeer and can hear the balladeer gains advantage on attack rolls. 2. Song of Lamentation. Provided the balladeer isn't incapacitated, a hostile creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the balladeer and can hear the balladeer must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed until the start of its next turn. A charmed creature weeps in grief and is incapacitated. If a creature's saving throw is successful, the creature is immune to the balladeer's Song of Lamentation for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

