# Voiceless Talker Artillerist

**description**: But where does your magic come from? The humors—your very lifeblood? Perhaps it is deep within your marrow. Bones are such curious things. We must dissect again and again—every piece smaller than the last—until we arrive at the truth. Your contributions to this experiment could change everything. Lord Syuul Psi-Tech While most psi-tech weapons can be used only by voiceless talkers, a character using the talent class (from the MCDM supplement The Talent and Psionics ) can use these weapons by gaining 1 strain each time they make an attack with one. A creature using a psi-tech ranged weapon uses Intelligence instead of Dexterity for attack and damage rolls. Traits Phasing Rifle ( 1 /Turn). When the artillerist hits a target with their Psionic Rifle attack, the artillerist can attempt to teleport the target (no action required). The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be teleported to an unoccupied space the artillerist can see within 60 feet of the artillerist. Actions Multiattack. The artillerist makes two Psionic Rifle attacks, or they manifest a power and make one Phasing Tentacles attack. Psionic Rifle. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) force damage. Phasing Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) psychic damage, and if the target is Large or smaller, the artillerist can choose one of the following effects: the target is grappled (escape DC 17) or teleported up to 15 feet to an unoccupied space the artillerist can see. *Memory Thief ( 5 th-Order Power). The artillerist psionically plunders the mind of a creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must make a DC 17 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 33 (6d10) psychic damage, and until they finish a long rest or die, their proficiency bonus is lowered by 1 and the artillerist gains a cumulative +2 bonus to damage rolls. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and doesn’t have their proficiency bonus reduced. A creature whose proficiency bonus drops to 0 can’t form new thoughts or speak, and they have disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws. Guise ( 3 rd-Order Power). The artillerist projects a psionic image over their body, transforming their appearance for 1 hour into that of a Medium creature they have seen. When they manifest this power, they can also change the appearance of any equipment they carry for the duration. The changes wrought by this power fail to hold up to physical inspection. A creature can use an action to inspect the artillerist’s appearance and make a DC 17 Intelligence (Investigation) check, noticing the image is a projection on a success. Bonus Actions *Vanish for One ( 3 /Day; 3 rd-Order Power; Concentration). The artillerist cloaks themself from the sight of a creature the artillerist can see within 60 feet of them. The creature must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or the artillerist becomes invisible to the creature for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). This effect ends early if the artillerist attacks the creature, deals damage to them, or creates an effect that forces them to make a saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

