# Voiceless Talker Operative (PB 4)

**description**: Among the most powerful psions in the timescape, synlirii (singular: synliroi) are known as the “voiceless talkers” to the denizens of the World Below—and to surface dwellers unfortunate enough to encounter them. Descended from boneless aquatic cephalopods, they are alien in thought and motivation to the humanoid species they loathe. Synlirii consider the “barking ones” (their label for creatures who squeeze air through meat flaps to communicate) to be an abomination that must be corrected. Uneasy Alliances. Though synlirii and overminds are hereditary enemies, their mutual obsession with the barking ones often leads to uneasy alliances. Both synlirii and overminds employ humanoids from the World Below as agents, trading lore and technology for information on their surface foes. Olothec Hatred. The synlirii’s visceral antipathy toward the barking ones is surpassed only by their deep enmity toward (and fear of) olothec. Ancient myths say olothec created both synlirii and overminds. To overminds, this is a harmless fable. But synlirii, who style themselves as the future masters of the timescape, rage against implications that their powers come from any source other than their own superior development. Psionic Spies. Despite their mental powers, voiceless talkers consider information their greatest weapon. They use their psionic talents to manipulate memory and perception, obscure their forms, and pass undetected among other cultures. Psi-Tech. Synlirii breed mollusks that secrete plastic-like substances, using them to fashion weapons and similar technology powered by psionic crystals. The voiceless talkers’ handheld psi-pistols and portable psi-rifles can be used only by their alien minds. Creature Engineers. Synlirii are obsessed with manipulating the natural development of other organisms. They create hulking brains, mindkillers, and other servants using a psionic technique they call the Interlace. Many synlirii experiments don’t live long and aren’t intended to. But the World Below is littered with unnatural creatures who escaped the voiceless talkers’ body banks—most of them singular life forms that can’t reproduce and may never die. Graywarpers. Graywarpers are voiceless talkers who were drained of most of their psionic abilities—and free will—as punishment for insolence or incompetence. They are viewed solely as expendable tools who enhance the power of other voiceless talkers. Traits Signature Attack (Psionic Pistol). Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 plus PB to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 1d10 plus PB force damage. Beginning at 7th level, the operative can make this attack twice, instead of once, when they take the Attack action on their turn. Features 3 rd Level: Phasing Charge ( 3 /Day). When the operative hits a creature with a signature attack, they can attempt to teleport the target. The target must succeed on a DC 10 plus PB Wisdom saving throw or be teleported up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space on the ground that the operative can see. 5 th Level: Telekinetic Repulsion ( 3 /Day). As an action, the operative releases a powerful pulse of energy. Each enemy within 10 feet of the operative must make a DC 10 plus PB Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes PBd6 force damage and is pushed up to 10 feet directly away from the operative. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed. 7 th Level: Memory Thief ( 3 /Day; 4 th-Order Power; Concentration). The operative psionically plunders the mind of a creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The target must make a DC 10 plus PB Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 22 (4d10) psychic damage, and for 1 minute, the target’s proficiency bonus is cumulatively lowered by 1 and the infiltrator gains a cumulative +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls and to each feature’s save DC. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and doesn’t have their proficiency bonus reduced. A creature whose proficiency bonus drops to 0 can’t form new thoughts or speak, and they have disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Any Alignment
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: Retainer

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

