# Voiceless Talker Graywarper

**description**: Among the most powerful psions in the timescape, synlirii (singular: synliroi) are known as the “voiceless talkers” to the denizens of the World Below—and to surface dwellers unfortunate enough to encounter them. Descended from boneless aquatic cephalopods, they are alien in thought and motivation to the humanoid species they loathe. Synlirii consider the “barking ones” (their label for creatures who squeeze air through meat flaps to communicate) to be an abomination that must be corrected. Uneasy Alliances. Though synlirii and overminds are hereditary enemies, their mutual obsession with the barking ones often leads to uneasy alliances. Both synlirii and overminds employ humanoids from the World Below as agents, trading lore and technology for information on their surface foes. Olothec Hatred. The synlirii’s visceral antipathy toward the barking ones is surpassed only by their deep enmity toward (and fear of) olothec. Ancient myths say olothec created both synlirii and overminds. To overminds, this is a harmless fable. But synlirii, who style themselves as the future masters of the timescape, rage against implications that their powers come from any source other than their own superior development. Psionic Spies. Despite their mental powers, voiceless talkers consider information their greatest weapon. They use their psionic talents to manipulate memory and perception, obscure their forms, and pass undetected among other cultures. Psi-Tech. Synlirii breed mollusks that secrete plastic-like substances, using them to fashion weapons and similar technology powered by psionic crystals. The voiceless talkers’ handheld psi-pistols and portable psi-rifles can be used only by their alien minds. Creature Engineers. Synlirii are obsessed with manipulating the natural development of other organisms. They create hulking brains, mindkillers, and other servants using a psionic technique they call the Interlace. Many synlirii experiments don’t live long and aren’t intended to. But the World Below is littered with unnatural creatures who escaped the voiceless talkers’ body banks—most of them singular life forms that can’t reproduce and may never die. Graywarpers. Graywarpers are voiceless talkers who were drained of most of their psionic abilities—and free will—as punishment for insolence or incompetence. They are viewed solely as expendable tools who enhance the power of other voiceless talkers. Traits Minion. If the graywarper takes damage from an attack or as the result of a failed saving throw, their hit points are reduced to 0. If the graywarper takes damage from another effect, they die if the damage equals or exceeds their hit point maximum; otherwise they take no damage. Psionic Nexus. When a non-minion voiceless talker within 30 feet of the graywarper uses telepathy or manifests a psionic power, they can do so as if they were in the graywarper’s space. Actions Phase Chant (Group Attack). Melee or Ranged Power Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 psychic damage. If the target is a creature and if three or more graywarpers joined the attack, the target must make a Charisma saving throw. The DC for this saving throw is 11 plus the number of graywarpers who joined the attack. On a failed save, the target becomes phased until the end of their next turn. While phased, the creature is translucent and immaterial, and they deal half damage with weapon attacks and unarmed strikes.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Lawful Evil
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

