# Void Ravager

**description**: Void Horrors Even with the revolutionary advancements of the modern age, there is much about the nature of galactic space that remains a mystery. Void horrors are intelligent creatures that come from mysterious regions of space, such as spatial anomalies or rifts that generate an abundance of dark energy. Some appear to be amorphous, even invisible to mundane vision, while the most dangerous types are physical manifestations infused with dark matter. The Voids Within the Veil. A great number of dark energy anomalies appear to be connected to an as-of-yet indecipherable subregion of space known as the Veil. It is within this domain that dark energy beings such as the evargun reside. Many void horrors come from this subregion as well. They communicate with each other using language that, outside of a vacuum, creates sounds akin to a warped, echoic form of speech. Some have their own goals, while others ally with or become soldiers for greater forces such as the evargun. The more primal among them simply seek to defend their territory or scavenge for resources. Matter Inversion. The negative energy generated by void horrors can sometimes alter the molecular and genetic framework of other creatures rather than destroy them. Unless treated, either through advanced biomedical therapy or esper powers, those infected are eventually transformed into a creatures of dark matter. Creatures being altered in this way are often afflicted with long-term madness during their transformation (rules for applying the effects of Madness are provided in the Master Technician's Guide ). Energy Being. A void horror doesn't require air, food, or drink. It can also move in zero-g without restriction and can survive within a vacuum. Veil Reaver Veil reavers are sinister beings that seek to eradicate other living creatures. Many of them were humanoids either infected by dark energy or lost within a dark matter anomaly. They can be found making mutual alliances with other clandestine forces or serving as mercenary soldiers for the evargun. Void Ravager Void ravagers are malevolent, fiendish creatures that commonly attack small colonies, space stations, and starships. They thrive on destruction and death, hunting down and killing every non-netherant creature they can find before moving on to the next settlement. Void Shadow A void shadow is an aspect of dark matter that appears in the form of a shadowy humanoid or beast. They bombard any living creature they touch with dark matter. The essence of a creature that dies from such an assault remains corrupted by the energy, eventually emerging from its body as a void shadow. Void Specter A void specter is a tortured humanoid transformed by dark energy contagion. Its mind has been driven mad by the mental conflict of its current state. Driven by a warped vengeance against other creatures, veil specters unleash their wrath upon other lifeforms that don't share its fate.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: netherant
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

