# Void Lord

**description**: The tall, enigmatic figure striding through the wasteland seems at odds with the environment. Wearing dark, expensive robes with wide sleeves, the hooded figure looks more suited as an archmage lecturing in an arcane school or advising the powerful in the halls of a royal palace. As the viewer grows closer, disturbing elements begin to stand out. Its limbs do not match. One arm is large, muscled, and ends in a three-clawed hand; the other is too long for the body it is attached to, and the hand has four overly long fingers with far too many joints. When the face of the figure comes into view, it presents a dichotomy. Inexplicable beautiful, it has no discernable gender and parts of it appear to be a mismatch of many kinds of creatures. Most disturbingly, small tentacles reach out from between the folds of its buttoned-up robes. The figure says nothing as it gestures, then six rips in space open around itself and chaos follows. The Void Lord is a stalking predator, feeding living creatures to the portals it opens. Those who are pulled, screaming, into its gateways do not return. It was once a dark god worshipped as a divine representation of the Void, the nothingness between planes. But that was long ago. Today, it has only a few scattered followers, mostly half-crazed cultists and apocalyptic nihilists, and has but a fragment of its divine power. It will feed on any living creature but seems to favor spellcasters or those of magical linages. Encounters with the Void Lord can occur in any area of the wastes or where magical corruption is strong, but it can be attracted to more civilized areas by especially strong magic events. TRAITS Amorphous. The Void Lord can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Immutable Form. The Void Lord is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the Void Lord fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The Void Lord has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spatially Reactive. In addition to its normal reaction, the Void Lord can take one extra reaction every round in a combat, but it can only use this bonus reaction to use its Escape Jaunt feature. ACTIONS Multiattack. The Void Lord makes one Void Strike attack and uses its Grasping Portal. Voidstrike. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) cold damage plus 7 (2d6) force damage. Grasping Portal. A rubbery tentacle emerges from a portal that opens in the air near a creature that the Void Lord can see within 60 feet of it. The creature must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained for 1 minute. A restrained target can repeat the Dexterity saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. The Void Lord can have only one Grasping Portal active at a time. Gaze into the Void (Recharge 5–6). The Void Lord opens a portal filled with swirling chaos. Each creature within 60 feet that can see the portal must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is charmed. A creature charmed in this way is incapacitated and has a speed of 0. A charmed target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect ends if the target takes damage or if someone uses an action to shake the target out of its stupor. BONUS ACTIONS Dimensional Step. The Void Lord can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space that it can see. REACTIONS Escape Jaunt. When a creature the Void Lord can see attacks it with a melee weapon, it opens a portal in its space. The Void Lord immediately enters the portal and reappears in an unoccupied space up to 10 feet away. LEGENDARY ACTIONS The Void Lord can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The Void Lord regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Clawed Portal. A portal appears within 60 feet of the Void Lord and a clawed hand emerges, swiping at a creature within 10 feet. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 14 (4d6) slashing damage. Eye Portal. A portal appears within 60 feet of the Void Lord and a glowing eye emerges, shooting a beam of energy at a creature within 60 feet. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or take 13 (2d12) psychic damage. Fanged Portal. A portal ringed with sharp teeth appears within 60 feet of the Void Lord, and the teeth bite a creature within 5 feet. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (3d8) piercing damage. Void Portal. A portal appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the Void Lord, and intense gravitational energy emitting from it pulls at all creatures within 30 feet of the portal. Each creature in range must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be pulled 15 feet in a straight line toward the portal, stopping in an unoccupied space as close to the portal as possible.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

