# Voorsha

**description**: Xenoterum The xenoterum are intergalactic invaders responsible for the annihilation of an untold number of galactic systems. They enslave all sentient life they encounter, using their resources to transmute their region of space into a form akin to their once great multidimensional empire. For eons, the xenoterum have invaded and conquered system after system indiscriminately, concerned only with harvesting each world and forcing its populace into eternal subjection. Many notable galactic societies have lost worlds to the tyranny of the xenoterum. Some, such as the ilarios, were created from the ashes of their civilization and bred to serve as worshippers and minions. They refer to themselves as the sinotha, a word derived from the name of their old empire, Sinoth Ir. Vanquished from Majesty. Long before the discovery of the Crucibles, the xenoterum held dominion over a vast collection of interstellar regions that spanned different galaxies and multiple dimensional realms. Other dimensional beings such as cronosytes, kreidren, and the rithni were also thought to reside within regions connected to the weave that formed Sinoth Ir. Due to their boundless reach, some believe the xenoterum to be among those once considered gods within many ancient societies and customs. A chosen few among the them wielded such power as to claim dominion over forces yet unfathomable to the mortal mind. Their empire fell to ruin because of their own hubris. They brazenly clashed with beings of similar power, resulting in the sundering of the dimensional weave that held their domains together. The surging backlash pulled the majority of Sinoth Ir into oblivion, destroying thousands of worlds, along with the billions of souls living upon them. Most of the xenoterum leaders, known as the grand elders, vanished within the dimensional cataclysm, thought to be consumed by its chaotic energies. Those that survived still rule from the shadows. Stellarformers. Each system invaded by the xenoterum is slowly transformed into a spatial subdimension using massive machines which that draw power from the system's primary star. Though not remotely comparable to the vastness of realms such as Drath Sia, these subdimensions overlay the existing fabric of space-time within that system, warping the perceptions of reality, thought, and the passage of time. This pollution of primordial energies causes conflict with creatures such as the bahtera or velbasti, whose very natures are defined by them. Similarly, the xenoterum strive to keep their technology a closely guarded secret from organizations such as the Silrayne Defenders or the Shadow Technocracy. Devious Psions. Xenoterum are gifted psions and telepaths, able to exert their will over the minds of other creatures. They use their psionic powers to subjugate those that reside within the systems they seek to claim. Creatures who fall under such a fate are forced to face the xenoterum in a twisted, nightmarish version of their own reality. Unless they escape, those unfortunate enough to survive the mass hysteria have their minds broken and enslaved. The ability of high-ranking xenoterum to communicate with each other over tremendous distances enable them to devise far-reaching strategies and dark machinations. Scattered Brethren. There are many forms of xenoterum. Only a few are known to have arrived within the known galaxy after the sundering of their empire. In addition to restoring their dimensional dynasty, each transformation of a galactic system is a step closer toward tearing a new hole in the fabric of space-time, where more of their kind may be found. Similarly, the surviving grand elders seek to regain their godlike power and station. Cults of the Grand Elders. The expanding influence of the xenoterum and their grand elders has also prompted some to view them as deities, forming zealot bands of worshippers seeking to return them to their rightful rule over the universe. These groups are usually formed and led by a voorsha, but could also be led by other powerful espers, particularly those whose minds have been severely twisted by the effects of a xenoterum subdimension. Amphibious. A xenoterum can breathe both air and water. Abilos Abilos are monstrous, blue-scaled horrors with elongated heads set with a row of three to five red eyes. They have multiple sets of tentacles, the larger used for interaction and defense, and the smaller for feeding. Tips and Tactics Often seen as the soldiers within the hierarchy, abilos are more likely to face their enemies directly instead of using minions. They'll weaken foes with psionic attacks from a distance while trying to grapple and consume enemies within reach. Daergor Specializing as tacticians, daergors often command groups of abilos and other xenoterum servants on invasions and expeditions. They have heads similar to the abilos but instead attached to a humanoid upper torso with elongated arms. Their lower torso is made up of six chitinous, pincered legs. Tips and Tactics Daergor avoid direct conflict, instead preferring to use their troops to fend off enemies while using their ego whip against approaching targets. Myrnrog Myrnrogs are viewed as the overseers and generals of the lesser forms of xenoterum.They are dangerous psions and merciless combatants. Their mental prowess is only matched by their lack of morality, making them cruel, unyielding tyrants. A myrnrog's head has yellowish upper layers with a mandibled mouth. Varied tentacles extend from its face, body, and lower torso. It has four long insectoid limbs. Tips and Tactics Myrnrogs are deadly up close and at a distance. They use their esper powers primarily to attack or control opponents from afar. They use their psychic drain ability if possible on any enemy that moves within range. Voorsha These humanoids are espers that have pledged themselves to serve the xenoterum, either by choice or by having their will completely broken. Rather than becoming food, they are converted into hybrid troopers, outfitted with biosynthetic armor and weapons. Though the process weakens them as espers, they can still channel potent energies using their gear. Tips and Tactics Voorsha rarely initiate conflict, preferring to wait for an opportunity to ambush its enemies with esper powers before fighting directly.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (hybrid)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

