# Vos'skyriss Serpentfolk Ghost

**description**: The Vos’skyriss serpentfolk are the people of an ancient elite empire of humanoid-snake hybrids, who seek the ultimate detachment that comes from destroying all of reality. Constricted Origins. Once a realm of humanoids who worshiped serpents, the ancient Vos’skyriss Empire was among the richest in the world. Its people obsessively imitated snakes—their flexibility, their emotionless patience, their willingness to survive at any costs (even cannibalizing their own kind), and their cold detachment. With the help of profane magics, most of the Vos’skyriss shed the useless skin of their humanity to become like the Betrayer God known as the Cloaked Serpent. Those who couldn’t evolve became food for those who did. Seers of the Vos’skyriss foresaw the Calamity, and the empire created an arcane stasis field under their capital city of Vos’skyriss to survive. This site stands off the western coast of Tal’Dorei and is now known as Visa Isle. Only the strongest were allowed to seek refuge in the capital, and decades of carefully tracked tournaments determined who was fit for survival. Ophidian Society. Serpentfolk occupy remote temples in jungles, swamps, and deserts. Their society enforces strict discipline and a hierarchy that rewards those closest to snakes in mind and body. Serpentfolk transfigured into massive snakes with humanoid arms are held in the highest esteem. Despite their god’s moniker, the Vos’skyriss serpentfolk outlaw hoods so that outsiders in their realm are easily recognizable. Narcissistic Worship. Most serpentfolk have little love for the Cloaked Serpent, though they pay him homage as the deity of poisons, assassins, and darkness. For the Vos’skyriss serpentfolk, worship is a means to an end. Their legends say that the devout will be granted the ability to devour nightmares, enabling them to gorge themselves on dreams of fear and terror until they grow so large that they can turn on their god and swallow the Cloaked Serpent himself. Once begun, this feast is unending—they will devour the remaining gods one by one, and finally, the entirety of the multiverse. Vos’skyriss Rising. Several decades ago, Jorlund Vohr, professor of archaeology at the Alabaster Lyceum, led an expedition to the ruins upon Visa Isle—and found them prowled by the restless spirits of the serpent empire. Their incursion unleashed these entombed spirits, and awakened hundreds of their living kin from magical stasis. Now, living and undead serpentfolk plot together to rekindle the embers of their long-lost empire. Alignment. Neutral evil. Traits Ethereal Sight. The ghost can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa. Incorporeal Movement. The ghost can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Actions Multiattack. The ghost makes two spear attacks. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. If the ghost makes a ranged attack, its spear rematerializes in its hands after the attack is resolved. Etherealness. The ghost enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can’t affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Terrifying Hiss. The ghost emits an uncanny, rasping hiss. Each non-undead creature within 30 feet of the ghost that can hear it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this ghost’s Terrifying Hiss for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: undead
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 20583
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

