# Vutuun

**description**: Vutunn couldn't be more different from her parents, or the culture she grew up in. She wanted to explore the world, find things no one else had ever found. She made her way to Meletis and was forced to make deals with any shady person who would fund her endeavors. Her first big discovery was finding the lost tomb of the archon tyrant Philippos. This discovery drew the attention of museums and nobles, better and legitimate sponsors. She bought a ship, hired a crew and a minotaur wizard by the name of Kerania to help her out of difficult situations she might find herself in, and set out into the Siren Sea. Traits Favorite Enemy. You gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with weapon attacks against Beasts. Additionally, you have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to track Beasts, as well as on Intelligence checks to recall information about them. Historical Knowledge. When you enter a ruin or dungeon, you can correctly ascertain its original purpose and determine its builders. In addition, you can determine the monetary value of art objects more than a century old. Long-Limbed. When you make a melee attack on your turn, your reach for it is 5 feet greater than normal (included in the attack). Natural Explorer. You are particularly at home in coastal terrain. When you make an Intelligence or Wisdom check related to coastal terrain, your proficiency bonus is doubled if you are using a skill that you're proficient in. While traveling for an hour or more in coastal terrain, you gain the following benefits: Difficult terrain doesn't slow your group's speed. Your group can't become lost except by magical means. Even when you are engaged in another activity while traveling, you remain alert to danger. If you are traveling alone, you can move stealthily at a normal pace. When you forage, you find twice as much food as you normally would. While tracking other creatures, you also learn their exact number, their sizes, and how long ago they passed through the area. Powerful Build. You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift. Surprise Attack. If you surprise a creature and hit it with an attack on your first turn in combat, the attack deals an extra 2d6 damage to it. You can use this trait only once per combat. Actions Attack. You can attack when you take this action, using the following: Horns. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 + 1 piercing damage. Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8 + 3 piercing damage. Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6 + 3 piercing damage. Bonus Actions Goring Rush. Immediately after you use the Dash action on your turn and move at least 20 feet, you can make one melee attack with your horns.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Goblinoid, Minotaur)
- Expansion: 24690

**publisher**: Gnome Made Games

**book**: An Elf and an Orc Had A Little Baby

