# Wandering Duelist

**description**: Duels play an important role in Rokugan’s politics, allowing members of the samurai clans to settle disputes or take justice into their own hands in a legally sanctioned manner. Most courtiers have access to a bodyguard who can fight in their stead, but not everyone has a skilled duelist at their disposal. As such, a sufficiently skilled fighter can make a living as a duelist, wandering from place to place and fighting on behalf of the aggrieved. Some of these duelists are little more than hired killers, while others are noble and only take on righteous causes. The Wandering Year. After completing their coming of age ceremony, many samurai undertake warrior pilgrimages, venturing across the lands as blades errant. Most of these pilgrimages last only a year, but some samurai wander the road for years, honing their skills against others and embodying the quest for martial perfection. Bodyguards for Hire. Some itinerant duelists are not members of the samurai class at all. After all, there is no registry of rōnin, and even a member of one of the Great Clans traveling in faraway lands might have to prove their status with their skills. Anyone carrying the two swords of the samurai is expected to be able to fight to prove their credentials, and so some former levied troops and other commoners take up the wandering lifestyle as duelists or bodyguards for hire. Masterless Blades. Some samurai have forsworn lords, fallen from grace, or accepted religious or philosophical teachings that reject the lifestyle of the samurai. These outcasts often make their way in the world as wandering duelists even while pursuing some greater agenda. Table A-2: Wandering Duelist & Sword Saint Motivations D12 Roll Wandering Duelist & Sword Saint Motivations 1 Wants to earn enough money to buy a drink and maybe a space in an inn. 2 Lives for the thrill of victory. 3 Searches for their purpose in a world that often seems purposeless. 4 Seeks revenge upon a foe who killed their mentor, friend, or family member. 5 Desires to have a good time, and enjoy whatever life brings them. 6 Fights to keep someone else safe at any cost. 7 Wants to build a reputation as the deadliest duelist in the region. 8 Desires to dispense justice upon the wicked and protect the meek. 9 Is seeking a student worthy of carrying on their martial tradition. 10 Desires to find a foe whose strength exceeds their own. 11 Wants to prove their martial style is superior to all others. 12 Only feels alive when crossing blades with a worthy foe. Traits Disorienting Parry. The wandering duelist adds +3 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. It must be wielding a melee weapon and must be able to perceive the attacker. If this causes the attack to miss during a duel, the attacker gains 1 danger die. Focus Points. The wandering duelist gains 1 focus point at the end of its turn for each attack it made. Martial Techniques. The wandering duelist can perform the following martial techniques so long as it has sufficient focus points to spend: 2+ focus points: flashing steel cut , flowing water strike 3+ focus points: iaijutsu cut: crossing blade Actions Multiattack: The wandering duelist makes two attacks. One or more of these attacks can be used for martial techniques (see Martial Techniques). Katana. Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) or 10 (1d10+5) slashing damage. This attack inflicts a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Wakizashi. Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any species)
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

