# War Squad

**description**: Squad Combat The following are optional rules to make larger scale combats more streamlined, at the expense of not being as accurate to the core rules. The intent here is make the combat entertaining while also increasing the threat for higher level heroes when dealing with masses of opponents. Though these squads can also be used when the heroes are lower level, they become more useful at higher levels. The following statistic blocks offer unique abilities when NPCs group into squads. Once there are only 2 or fewer opponents, the squad should disband and use individual stat blocks instead. The squad itself offers no experience points to the party when defeated. Instead, the party earns the experience points from the individual creatures as per normal. That is, if they defeat an archery squad with 6 raid archers, they get 100 XP per archer (the standard amount). Squads Against Ships The heroes (and their enemies) can form squads from excess crew. There are a few special rules in how squad abilities interact with ships. Area of Effect Abilities. When an area of effect ability (like the archery squad’s Arrow Volley) is used, the targeted ship makes the Dexterity check. Any damage taken is halved — with the crew taking one half and the ship taking the other half. Specific stations cannot be targeted with these abilities. Changing Squads. A squad can use its action to transform into another type of squad (when they are carrying the correct equipment to do so). A crew of raiders can start a battle as an archery squad but when enemy ships get into melee range, they can take form into a shield wall ready to repel boarders. Battering Rams, Gates & Walls Battering rams can be built in a couple hours during a siege to allow a small force to break open a reinforced gate. A ram requires four people to operate it, has a movement speed of 10 feet and can only attack stationary targets. It has a +4 bonus to its attack roll and delivers 16 (3d10) bludgeoning damage on a successful hit. For every person above four helping to use the ram, it gains a +1 bonus to its attack roll, to a maximum of +4. If there is at least eight people using the ram, it attacks with advantage. Ballistae These weapons require three actions; one action to load a bolt, one action to aim, and one action to fire. Generally, with a crew of three, they can be fired once per turn. With fewer operators, it takes longer to fire them. Ballista Bolt. Ranged Weapon Attack. +6 to hit (+7 if one of the heroes is manning the ballista), range 120/480 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d10) piercing damage. Catapult (Heavy) These large siege weapons are bulky and require several operators and several initiative turns to load and fire. Loading a stone requires two separate actions. On the turn after it is loaded, another action can be used to aim the catapult. On the turn after loading, an action can be used to fire it. The catapult must then skip its next turn (loading cannot begin until it recovers from firing). Therefore, a two-person crew can fire a catapult once every four rounds. A catapult cannot hit a target within 100 feet and if it misses an attack, it still hits the ground in a straight line from where it fired. However, with a miss the distance thrown is reduced by 10 feet for every point by which the attack rolled missed. That is, if a 15 was needed to hit and the total attack roll was 10, the catapult lands 50 feet closer than intended. Catapult Stone. Ranged Weapon Attack. +4 to hit (+5 if one of the heroes is manning the catapult), range 500/1000 ft., every creature and object within 30 ft. of targeted location. When the catapult stone hits the ground all creatures within 15 feet must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or suffer 33 (6d10) bludgeoning damage. The damage is halved if the saving throw is successful. The stone does double damage to objects, buildings, and vehicles, and these targets automatically fail their saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Squad of Medium Humanoids (Any Race)
- Alignment: any alignment
- Expansion: 25792
- Challenge Rating: 1

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

