# Wardling Ghost

**description**: A Wardling ghost is tied to the Material Plane due to unfinished business or a strong will to communicate a message. It is quite rare for a Wardling to die, as their familiar is supposed to protect them from death using their Oor. However, sometimes a familiar isn’t able to provide the necessary protection because they’ve been sent to deliver a message or another creature has sapped their Oor. Whatever the reason, a Wardling ghost will usually have an important story to tell. Though a Wardling ghost is usually helpful when approached with caution and a desire to help, it can be confused or scared itself, resulting in erratic and dangerous behavior. Nobody wants to be subject to their creepy visage or withering touch, lest they become a ghost themselves! Still, if someone can help a Wardling ghost finish their business and set them free to the Ethereal Plane, that is a good endeavor for the world indeed. Traits Ethereal Sight . The Wardling ghost can see 60 ft. into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa. Incorporeal Movement . The Wardling ghost can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Creepy Visage . Each non-undead creature within 30 ft. of the Wardling ghost that can see it must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. If the save fails by 5 or more, the target also ages 1d4 years. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the frightened condition on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this Wardling ghost’s Creepy Visage for the next 24 hours. The aging effect can be reversed with a greater restoration spell, but only within 24 hours of it occurring. Actions Withering Touch . Melee Weapon Attack : +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 15 (4d6 + 1) necrotic damage. Etherealness . The Wardling ghost enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on the Material Plane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, yet it can’t affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Possession (Recharge 6). One humanoid that the Wardling ghost can see within 5 ft. of it must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the ghost; the ghost then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The Wardling ghost now controls the body but doesn’t deprive the target of awareness. The Wardling ghost can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect except ones that turn undead, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target’s statistics, but doesn’t gain access to the target’s knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the ghost ends it as a bonus action, or the ghost is turned or forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the ghost reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to this ghost’s Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends. 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Alignment: any
- Expansion: 8938
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

