# Warden Robot

**description**: Resembling a member of the city guard made of steel and a glass-like material, this construct seems suited for combat. It holds a baton that gives off blazing blue light, and a similarly colored light is visible on its chest plate. Constructed to be guardians and warriors, robot wardens are humanoid-shaped devices similar to clockwork constructs but powered by science rather than magic. The only real weakness robot wardens have is to lightning damage, which interferes with their circuitry and causes them to go haywire. A typical robot warden is over 6 feet tall and weighs more than 500 pounds. Trapped in Ruins. Most of these constructs are scattered throughout the wastes in hidden bunkers, fallen citadels, and even crashed spaceships. Most robot wardens have gone dormant during the years they have been trapped to conserve power, but a warden can activate itself at a moment’s notice when intruders enter its area. Some wardens might not be immediately hostile, depending on their original orders, but will not hesitate to take aggressive action if threatened. ROBOT DRONE FAMILIARS Though such occurrences are exceedingly rare, some robot drones have been turned into familiars under the control of spellcasters interested in artifice and lost technology. A robot drone that becomes a familiar shares a telepathic bond with its master just as any other familiar does, enabling the master to sense what the drone senses as long as it is within 1 mile of its master. In addition, while its master is within 10 feet of the familiar, the master gains the drone’s Nimble Attacker trait when making ranged attacks using weapons or spells. NO ROBOTS IN MY FANTASY, PLEASE! Many players and GMs don’t like to mix fantasy and science fiction, preferring to keep the two genres separate, and might be turned off by a campaign setting or adventure that incorporates both. The elegant solution to this problem, rather than simply getting rid of the sci-fi elements, is to modify them to make them more palatable to a fantasy audience. A death ray gun might become an archaic wand from a fallen civilization that fires beams of energy, and a robot is simply a golem in a different shell. Even a spaceship can be redefined. Perhaps it is a sky barge of one of the gods of the campaign world or a wondrous gnomish invention powered by elemental forces or tamed dragons. TRAITS Electrical Malfunction. Whenever the warden robot takes lightning damage, it must make a successful DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or become confused until the end of its next turn. Unusual Nature. The robot warden doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Vigilant Patroller. A robot warden has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks involving creatures within 30 feet of it. ACTIONS Multiattack. The robot warden makes two Force Baton attacks. Force Baton. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) force damage. Disrupter Beam (Recharge 5–6). The robot warden fires a beam of blue force from its chest plate. The beam is a line 30 feet long and 5 feet wide. Any creature caught in the beam must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails its saving throw is also stunned until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

