# Warpling

**description**: The presumed child’s features began to shift with mercurial fluidity. Its skin sprouted patches of fur, feathers, and scales in myriad colors. It slouched, as thought to hide itself, still keenly observing everything around it. Warplings are true inheritors of the chaotic aspects of the wastes. They warp reality around them, distorting space, time, and material objects and constantly shift their own appearances. They are fascinated by other humanoids and like to disguise themselves as wandering children, hoping to be taken in so that they can observe how others live. However, the unpredictable effects that follow them eventually reveal their true nature, and they are generally shunned for the havoc that they wreak. Being relatively small of stature, warplings are not often combative. When threatened, they can shape their limbs into animal-like unnatural weapons, such as bone clumps, claws, and horns. However, they are easily frightened, especially by the sight of blood, and often lose control of their reality warping powers when distressed. This has unpredictable effects on battles, and warplings take advantage of the ensuing confusion to flee or hide. Some folk value the friendship of warplings, for they see many places and meet a variety of people in their travels. They often have insights that few others have into the settlements of a region, and their innate magic resistance helps them access some of the more dangerous sites in the wastes. If a warpling’s trust can be won, it can be a valuable source of information in otherwise unknown lands. 2d6 Reality Warp Effect 2 Times shifts erratically. The creature must make a new Dexterity check to determine their place in the initiative order. 3 The creature is subjected to the effects of the slow spell. 4 The creature is befuddled and incapacitated. 5 Weapons wilt and wrinkle. The creature’s weapon attacks are made at disadvantage and deal half damage. 6 Distance folds and the creature is moved 5 feet horizontally to an unoccupied space in a random direction. 7 The creature is subjected to the effects of the faerie fire spell. 8 Armor softens and shields fold. The creature’s AC is decreased by 2. 9 The creature loses friction with the ground. They move at half their normal speed and their melee weapon attacks are made at disadvantage. 10 The creature is charmed by the warpling. 11 The creature is subjected to the effects of a haste spell. 12 The creature is subjected to the effects of the polymorph spell. Roll 1d6 to determine the creature they transform into: 1 = ankheg, 2 = baboon, 3 = death dog, 4 = giant crab, 5 = gibbering mouther, 6 = quasit. TRAITS Chaos Form. The warpling’s appearance shifts and changes constantly, taking on various colors and textures. Fey Ancestry. The warpling has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to sleep. Magic Resistance. The warpling has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Shifting Aura. The warpling subtly distorts reality within 15 feet of it. Any creature observing the affected area has disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception or Insight) checks. ACTIONS Multiattack. The warpling makes two Unnatural Weapon attacks. Unnatural Weapon. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d6 + 1) bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage. The warpling chooses the type of damage when making the attack and shapes its body appropriately. Control Chaos Form. The warpling can make itself look like another creature of the same general size and humanoid shape. It reverts to its normal form if its concentration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell). A creature must take an action to visually inspect the warpling and succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the warpling is disguised. BONUS ACTIONS Reality Warp. The warpling warps reality for creatures in a 15-foot radius around it until the start of its next turn. As a bonus action on subsequent turns, the warpling can maintain the effect. Roll 2d6 to determine the effect. A creature can resist the effect by making a successful DC 13 Charisma saving throw. REACTIONS Easily Frightened. When a warpling sees another creature take damage, it must make a Constitution saving throw to maintain control of its Reality Warp. The DC equals 10 or half the damage taken by the target, whichever number is higher. On a failure, its Reality Warp is activated or the effect may change if it is already active. Roll 2d6 to determine the effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

