# Wasteland Lizard

**description**: As nimble as they are hardy, these giant horned lizards are prized as mounts by travelers in the wastes. Their scales are dusty green and gold, and their wide-splayed legs are poised to move quickly. Their eyes continuously scan their surroundings, flicking back and forth, always on the lookout for danger. Wasteland lizards evolved rapidly in unnatural environments, developing the means to persist in a broken landscape full of unusual and often magical threats. Though not particularly fast, they are able to scramble up and over obstacles and can travel for days with minimal sustenance. They possess a sort of sixth sense that drives them to scuttle out of potentially dangerous areas. Exposure to the arcane hazards of the wastes has led the lizards to develop some resistance to otherworldly damage. Consummate survivors, wasteland lizards prefer to avoid danger rather than face it head on. In a fight, they try to toss their opponents away with their horns to clear a path to flee. If this fails, they have one more escape trick: they can spray an acidic fluid from glands near their eyes to frighten predators. There is some debate about whether the sight of a panicked lizard spraying acid from its eyes shocks attackers into a fearful state, or whether the acid carries some other intrinsic chemical quality, but it can be quite effective. Wasteland lizards can be tamed and guided in battle by a capable handler, and they confer some of the defensive benefits of their adaptations to their riders. Eggs and hatchlings fetch handsome sums in the markets that serve travelers in the wastes, and some wranglers make good (if dangerous) livings capturing and breaking wild adult lizards. Some alchemists conduct experiments with wasteland lizard acid glands, but the animals are generally worth more alive than for their organs. TRAITS Confer Force Resistance. The wasteland lizard can grant resistance to force damage to anyone riding it. Spider Climb. The wasteland lizard can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. ACTIONS Multiattack. The wasteland lizard makes one Bite attack and one Gore attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage. Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage, and if the target is Medium or smaller, it is thrown up to 10 feet in a direction of the lizard’s choosing and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes a solid surface, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone. Blood Spray (Recharge 5–6). The wasteland lizard sprays acid in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in the cone must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 22 (4d8) acid damage and is frightened of the wasteland lizard for 1 minute. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t frightened. REACTIONS Out of Harm’s Way. When the wasteland lizard is in an area that will be subjected to an effect such as a spell or other hazard, it can use its reaction to move up to its speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Beast
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

