# Wasteland Monarch

**description**: This figure is at once majestic and frightful. It wields a morningstar awash with flame and bellows out commands to its underlings. The wasteland monarch is the self-appointed leader of a band of wasteland bandits, marauders, or tribesmen, using a combination of raw strength and potent charisma to keep its underlings in line. Clad in heavy plate and with a shield typically decorated with skulls or other savage paraphernalia, the wasteland monarch is a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield and is often attended by a wasteland priest in addition to regular troops. Borderlands Threat. Those captured by a wasteland monarch are usually executed or enslaved, though a monarch might hold an important person for ransom. Not all wasteland monarchs are evil, and some would prefer to trade with others rather than simply kill or capture them. WASTELAND MONARCH LAIR Most wasteland monarchs live in heavily fortified encampments above ground, normally on the fringes of the wastes and within easy striking distance of other settlements, though others might live in ruined castles or even in underground settings, depending on the conditions on the surface and the threats in the area. A wasteland monarch has a challenge rating of 10 (5,900 XP) when encountered in its lair. LAIR ACTIONS On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the wasteland monarch takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the wasteland monarch can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The wasteland monarch shrugs off the effects of being frightened, paralyzed, or stunned and is immune to all these conditions until it regains the use of its lair action on initiative count 20 of the following round. The wasteland monarch calls upon an Aberration, Monstrosity, or Humanoid of CR 3 or lower to aid it in battle. The creature appears within 60 feet of the monarch in an unoccupied space. The called creature acts as an ally of the monarch and obeys its verbal commands. The creature remains for 1 hour, until it is killed, or until the monarch uses this lair action again. The wasteland monarch challenges an opponent to personal combat. That creature must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or be unable to attack any creature other than the wasteland monarch until the monarch takes another lair action or dies. A creature that successfully ignores the wasteland monarch’s challenge is unaffected by this lair action for 24 hours. REGIONAL EFFECTS The wasteland monarch’s lair affects the surrounding region in the following ways: A sense of lawlessness pervades the region within 10 miles of a wasteland monarch’s lair. People are more likely to break minor laws or to defy the orders of their superiors, and animals are more inclined to disobey their owners. This does not affect PCs, but they still feel the urge to take these actions. The ground within 1 mile of the wasteland monarch’s lair, whatever its composition, is difficult terrain. Wisdom (Survival) checks in that area are made with disadvantage. Clerics and paladins of lawful deities feel a sense of unease when they are within 100 feet of a wasteland monarch’s lair. Such an individual in that area must make a successful DC 10 Constitution check to maintain concentration on a spell. Once an individual succeeds on this check, they do not have to repeat it for 24 hours. TRAITS Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the wasteland monarch fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Pack Tactics. The wasteland monarch has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the monarch’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated. Magic Weapons. The wasteland monarch’s weapon attacks are magical. ACTIONS Multiattack. The wasteland monarch makes three Flaming Morningstar attacks. Flaming Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) fire damage. Authority of the Wastes (1/Day). The wasteland monarch can compel any creature in a 60-foot radius to submit to its authority. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the wasteland monarch for 1 hour. On a successful save, a creature is immune to this effect for 24 hours. Creatures native to the wastes or wasteland-type settings (such as dust goblins and chaos trolls) have disadvantage on their saving throws. Torrent of Flame (Recharge 5–6). The wasteland monarch spins its morningstar over its head and unleashes a blast of flame that hits each creature or object in a 10-foot radius. A creature in the area can make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. LEGENDARY ACTIONS The wasteland monarch can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The wasteland monarch regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Attack. The wasteland monarch makes a Flaming Morningstar attack. Move. The wasteland monarch can move up to its speed. Rallying Cry (Costs 2 Actions). The wasteland monarch shouts encouragement to one of the monarch’s allies within 60 feet that can hear the monarch. That ally can make a saving throw to try to end the charmed, frightened, or stunned condition on itself.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Human)
- Alignment: Any Non-Lawful Alignment
- Expansion: 25357
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

