# Water Gen

**description**: Known as maridan , these gen can be of any stature. With skintones ranging from every shade in the ocean, they crave power above all else, respecting only those who would match their station with power, and become useful in their own growth and advancement. Gen Gens are tiny genie-kin that reside in the elemental planes and, due to their stature, are sometimes referred to as lesser genie. Once bound, they are very willing servants who strive to be the best at any task they are given. They even tend to be competitive with other gen. At their core, every genie holds itself in high regard, and the gen desire the same praise and respect as their far more powerful counterparts. Recruiting one is an entirely different matter, as most deal exclusively with other genies and extraplanar beings. Yet, it is possible for a diligent mortal to gain one's trust and obedience, and their patience is greatly rewarded in both friendship and power. Plane Shifters. Gens possess the ability to shift between the planes, making them ideal messengers. A warlock who has made a pact with such a being can expect to communicate with powerful creatures through their familiar, and even request their aid, but such exercise is taxing on the gen and they require time to recuperate after each planar shift. To Serve with Purpose. While the majority of gen find their toil within the realms and palaces of noble genies and in the company of unfathomable cosmic power, to a mortal, they can prove to be diligent attendants, able teachers, and friends. Such gen take pride in their association to the warlock as much as, or more than, the warlock might. Should their warlock miss the first opportunity to introduce their gen, it will likely take the next instant upon itself. As they serve with distinction, a gen’s self-worth won’t accept any physical or mental abuse at the hands of any master, nor do they see themselves as a pawn or slave. While they pride themselves on being helpful, each gen wishes to elevate their status through their time spent with other powerful beings, learning how each approaches a specific situation or magical opportunity. In fact, each gen believes that their power grows faster the more they accomplish with a single entity, and thus the greater each ascension may be. With this in mind, some gen cultivate multiple pacts with powerful beings throughout their existence, but limit themselves to only one mortal at a time. All things important to the gen hinge on this relationship, as each hopes that someday they may grow to know absolute power and prestige, rivaling the gods, as only a true noble genie can. Elemental Nature. The type of gen your pact binds depends on its elemental plane of origin. The majority are classified into four types, whose personalities can differ as much as their appearance. Variant: Gen Familiar Gens bound to a warlock by a noble genie patron often act as advisors and familiars. They often push the warlock into gaining more power and influence, as to be deemed worthy of service. Such gens have the following trait. Familiar. The gen can serve as a familiar, forming a telepathic bond with its willing master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense what the gen senses as long as they are within 1 mile of each other. While the gen is within 10 feet of its master, the master shares the gen's Magic Resistance trait. At any time, the gen can end its service as a familiar, ending the telepathic bond. Traits Innate Spellcasting. The gen’s innate spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no components: At will: detect evil and good, frostbite, shape water 2/day: plane shift (self only) 1/day: tongues, water walk (self only) Amphibious. The gen can breathe air and water. Elemental Demise. If the gen dies, its body disintegrates into a burst of water and foam, leaving behind only equipment the gen was wearing or carrying. Magic Resistance. The gen has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. The gen makes two melee attacks. Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage. Tidal Wave (Recharge 6). The gen creates a rushing wave of water in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. A creature that fails its save is also pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone. Invisibility. The gen magically turns invisible until it attacks or until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the gen wears or carries is invisible with it.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 23171
- Challenge Rating: 1/2

**publisher**: Castle Skydawn Design

**book**: Xanathar's Lost Notes to Everything Else

