# Waxolotl

**description**: “If you plan on keeping von of zese little buggers, make shure you don’t store your flammable tar right next to ze bottles of ethanöl. Ein entire laboratory kan burn down in only five minutes! It’s ein gut thing I took precautions…” — Humperdink, Insurance Recipient Type: Elemental Creature Component: Any wax elemental Bonus Tamer Improvement: Fire Spitter and +2 Hit Dice Sociable and docile, unlike their primordial counterparts, waxolotls are loyal and excitable creatures. Their favourite pastimes include snoozing next to open fires, taking hot wax baths, and making shadow puppet plays using their innate light sources. Wonderfully supportive companions, they look out for their allies with their regenerative abilities and also ward off foes with protective light, as well as a lot of suppressive fire. If any of the waxolotl’s traits or actions require a saving throw, it is always against the waxolotl’s save DC , as calculated below. Save DC = 8 + the tamer’s proficiency bonus + the waxolotl’s Constitution modifier Monster Trainer In addition to the improvements you can normally give your companions, you can choose to grant the waxolotl the following improvements using your Monster Trainer feature: Fire Spitter Prerequisite: become a tamer’s companion Type: Passive (companion) The damage die of the waxolotl’s Ember attack increases to a d6 , and its range increases to 30 feet . Bright I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Passive (companion), Active (reaction) The bright light of the waxolotl’s Illumination trait increases to a 10-foot radius , and the dim light to an additional 10 feet . The candles can’t be put out by liquids or wind. In addition, as a reaction when a creature within the radius of the waxolotl’s bright light makes an attack roll, the waxolotl can briefly intensify the brightness of its candles, dazzling the creature and giving it disadvantage on its attack roll. Creatures immune to the blinded condition are unaffected by this feature. Regeneration I Prerequisite: 3rd-level tamer Type: Active (bonus action) As a bonus action, the waxolotl can activate a surge of regenerative energy that courses through its body. For 1 minute , the waxolotl regains 2 ( 1d4 ) hit points at the start of each of its turns. After the waxolotl uses this bonus action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a long rest. When the waxolotl’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, the hit points regained increase to 3 ( 1d6 ). Growth Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The waxolotl’s size increases to Small, its Hit Die size increases to a d6 (its hit point maximum consequently increases by 1 for each of its Hit Dice), and the damage die of its Ember attack increases to a d8 . Multiattack Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer Type: Active (action) As an action, the waxolotl can make two attacks. Wax Breath I Prerequisite: 5th-level tamer, Flame Spitter Type: Active (action) As an action, the waxolotl can spit out a deluge of molten wax in a 15-foot cone . Each creature in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or become restrained by the rapidly hardening wax for 1 minute . A creature restrained by the wax can use its action to make a Strength check against the waxolotl’s save DC , freeing itself on a success. After the waxolotl uses this action, it can’t do so again until its tamer finishes a short or long rest. When the waxolotl’s tamer reaches 9th level in the tamer class, a creature restrained by the wax takes 1d6 fire damage at the start of each of its turns. Bright II Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer, Bright I Type: Passive (companion & tamer) The bright light of the waxolotl’s Illumination trait increases to a 20-foot radius , and the dim light to an additional 20 feet . While within the area of the waxolotl’s bright light, both it and its tamer have advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Slippery Prerequisite: 9th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion), Active (bonus action) The waxolotl can take the Disengage action as a bonus action. In addition, it has advantage on ability checks made to avoid or escape being grappled. Regeneration II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer, Regeneration I Type: Active (bonus action) The hit points regained by the waxolotl’s Regeneration I increase to 4 ( 1d8 ). When the waxolotl regains hit points with that feature, it can choose to regain only half the amount. If it does so, its tamer regains the same amount of hit points. When the waxolotl’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the hit points regained increase to 5 ( 1d10 ). Wax Breath II Prerequisite: 13th-level tamer Type: Passive (companion) The damage that a creature restrained by the waxolotl’s Wax Breath takes at the start of each of its turns increases to 2d6 . In addition, the waxolotl’s breath weapon leaves an even larger mess of hot, sticky wax in its wake. Until the end of the waxolotl’s next turn, surfaces within the area of the cone are difficult terrain, and a creature that enters it for the first time on its turn or ends its turn there takes 2d6 fire damage. When the waxolotl’s tamer reaches 17th level in the tamer class, the damage that a creature restrained by the wax takes at the start of each of its turns and the damage that a creature takes by entering the area of the cone both increase to 3d6 . Bright III Prerequisite: 17th-level tamer, Bright II Type: Passive (companion), Active (reaction) The bright light of the waxolotl’s Illumination trait increases to a 30-foot radius , and the dim light to an additional 30 feet . When the waxolotl uses its Bright I reaction, the affected creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of the waxolotl’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Tiny
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 28918
- Challenge Rating: 1.8

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Motes of the Divine

