# Weeping Willow

**description**: When a dryad bonds with a tree, the connection grants the tree immortality and a measure of fey magic. The encroachments of civilization, however, threaten this sylvan idyll. Many dryads fall to a woodcutter’s axe, while others become infatuated with a mortal and choose to leave their tree—and immortality—behind. A tree that mourns for their lost dryad becomes a weeping willow. Lake of Tears. A weeping willow bears drooping branches that sprinkle the ground with the tree’s tears. If they stand in one spot long enough, a pond of saltwater eventually forms—and sometimes, those waters reflect the image of a dead dryad. Creatures who seek shelter in a weeping willow’s bower find themselves overcome with a lethargic melancholy, and many wanderers starve to death rather than stir from this rest. Verdant Vengeance. Although not fundamentally evil, weeping willows resent mortals for taking their dryads away. The trees haunt the borders of settlements, luring their prey with song and sweet words or catching them in gnarled roots. Willows whisper words of vengeance to likeminded creatures, mustering allies against nearby humanoid settlers. They also rain enchanting tears to transform their greatest enemies into enthralled allies—or if that fails, into twisted trees. Traits False Appearance. While the willow remains motionless, they are indistinguishable from a normal willow tree. Flammable. If the willow takes fire damage, they catch fire and take 7 (2d6) fire damage at the start of each of their turns for 1 minute. The effect ends early if the willow takes cold damage or a creature uses an action to extinguish the flames. Actions Multiattack. The willow makes two Frenzied Branch attacks. Frenzied Branch. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the willow is on fire, this attack deals an extra 3 (1d6) fire damage. Tugging Roots. Roots erupt from a point on the ground the willow can see within 60 feet of them. Each creature in a 10-foot sphere centered on that point must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and moved up to 30 feet toward the willow, taking 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet moved. Willow’s Tears. The willow showers salty droplets on their bower. Each creature within 15 feet of the willow must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the willow (save ends at end of turn). While charmed in this way, a creature can’t willingly move more than 15 feet away from the willow. If a creature charmed in this way takes damage, the effect ends for them. Reactions Tree Transformation. When a creature within 5 feet of the willow deals slashing damage to the willow, the willow attempts to turn the creature into a tree. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or their feet begin to transform into tree roots and they are restrained. A creature restrained in this way must repeat the saving throw at the end of their next turn. On a successful save, the effect ends. On a failed save, they are transformed into a wooden tree and are petrified. A creature petrified in this way resembles a normal tree of the same size as that creature, except the creature’s face appears carved into the trunk. If the willow dies, the petrification ends and the creature reverts to their true form. A cure ailment power or lesser restoration spell also ends this effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

