# Wendell Gale

**description**: Appearance and Personality: Wendell is a ruddy, black-­haired gnome with an officious nature and an inflated sense of self-­importance. He is a skilled trader and good on the deck of a boat, but he takes care to give the impression that he is of little use in a fight. He is proud to demonstrate his expertise in non-­combat situations, particularly when it comes to matters of navigation or negotiation. However, he is also perfectly willing to take charge of situations where he has considerably less skill. He generally acts as though he is the most competent person present in any group. Note that Wendell has fallen under the influence of Jael the Hunter. Jael imprisoned Wendell’s immediate family members and is prepared to levy a death warrant against the entire Gale trading family. Jael promised Wendell that he would free those family members and release the family from the warrant in exchange for Wendell’s cooperation. Wendell reluctantly agreed to cooperate with Jael. He values his family’s lives far higher than he does any hope of freedom or dreams of an eventual elf victory over the shadow. In spite of his boisterous and commanding ways, Wendell is ultimately a pragmatist. He wants to see the mission reach the Erethor, and he is willing to do whatever is necessary to make that succeed. He does not want to eliminate any of the PCs, as he believes that this group is his best chance to get far behind elf lines with a Crown of Shadow. Then, he believes he can activate the Crown and use it to fulfill his end of the bargain with Jael. Traits Gnomish Cunning. Wendel has advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws against magic. Bonus Actions Shrewd. Wendell can use the Disengage or Help action as a bonus action. When he uses the Help action to aid an ally in attacking a creature, the target of that attack can be within 30 feet of Wendell, rather than within 5 feet of him, if the target can see or hear him. Sneak Attack. Once per turn, Wendell deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage when he hits a target with a Dagger attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of Wendell that isn’t incapacitated and Wendell doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. Actions Boatman’s gaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d8) piercing damage. Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. Inutek. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 5/15 ft. one target. Hit: A Large or smaller creature hit by an inutek is restrained until it is freed. An inutek has no effect on creatures that are formless, or creatures that are Huge or larger. A creature can use its action to make a DC 10 Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within its reach on a success. Dealing 5 slashing damage to the inutek (AC 10) also frees the creature without harming it, ending the effect and destroying the inutek. Reactions Uncanny Dodge. When an attacker that Wendell can see hits him with an attack, he can use his reaction to halve the attack’s damage against him.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: Humanoid (Gnome)
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 30502
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

