# Wendigo

**description**: A wendigo is a dreadful fey spirit that haunts cold temperate forests and desolate tundras. It is often mistaken for an undead or lycanthrope due to its appearance and its insatiable craving for humanoid flesh. Bestial Horror. The wendigo appears as a gaunt horrid-looking 9-foot tall humanoid with an emaciated elk's head with antlers. Its foul body is covered with dark matted hair that is stained with blood. Its unnaturally long arms end in vicious claws and its mouth is ridged with sharp teeth. Ravenous Spirit. The wendigo was once an evil humanoid that hunted and preyed on its own kind, surviving as a cannibal for most of its life while living alone in the wilderness. Such a creature will attract the attention of the Queen of Air and Darkness or Malar the Beastlord. Before the creature's death, the deity it gained favor from bestows upon it a gift, or rather a curse, which transforms the creature into the ravenous wendigo. This allows the creature to continue what it did in its previous life, for eternity. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The wendigo has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Regeneration. The wendigo regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the wendigo takes fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the wendigo's next turn. The wendigo dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. Actions Multiattack. The wendigo makes one Ravenous Bite and two Claw attacks. Ravenous Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage, and the wendigo regains hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. In addition, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw against disease or become poisoned until the disease is cured. While poisoned, the target's Wisdom score is reduced by 1d4 at the start of each of its turns. This reduction will not cause a target's score to go below 3. When a target's Wisdom reaches a score of 3, it becomes insane and ravenous. While in this state, the creature acts as an ally of the wendigo, gains a Bite attack (1d6 piercing damage), and must spend its action each turn making a Bite attack against an enemy of the wendigo. The Wisdom score reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage. Baleful Howl. The wendigo emits a terrifying howl. Every enemy within 300 feet of the wendigo that can hear it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A frightened target that starts its turn within 30 feet of the wendigo must use all its movement on that turn to get as far from the wendigo as possible, must finish the move before taking an action, and must take the most direct route, even if hazards lie that way. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A target that successfully saves is immune to the wendigo's Baleful Howl for the next 24 hours. Spellcasting. The wendigo casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16): At will: dancing lights, detect magic, minor illusion, wind walk (as an action, self only) Bonus Actions Maddening Whispers. The wendigo chooses one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 13 (2d8 + 4) psychic damage and must use its reaction to move up to half its speed and make a melee weapon attack against one visible creature of the wendigo's choice. Constructs and Undead are immune to this effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Fey
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

