# Wereraven

**description**: Wereravens are secretive and wary of strangers. They keep mostly to themselves, respect local laws, and strive to do good whenever possible. They are reluctant to attack with their beaks in raven or hybrid form for fear of spreading their curse to those who don’t deserve it or would abuse it. A Kindness of Wereravens . Wereravens refer to their tightly knit groups as kindnesses. Not surprisingly, wereravens get along well with ravens and often hide in plain sight among them. Charitable Collectors . Wereravens collect shiny trinkets and precious baubles. They are fond of sharing their wealth with those in need and, in their humanoid forms, modestly give money to charity. They take steps to keep magic items out of evil hands by stashing them in secret hiding places. Wereraven Lycanthropy . The lycanthropes entry in the Monster Manual has rules for characters afflicted with different forms of lycanthropy. The following text applies to wereraven characters specifically. A character cursed with wereraven lycanthropy gains a Dexterity of 15 if their score isn’t already higher. Attack and damage rolls for the wereraven’s beak are based on whichever is higher of the character’s Strength and Dexterity. The peck of a wereraven deals 1 piercing damage in raven form (no ability modifier applies to this damage), or 1d4 piercing damage in hybrid form (the character’s ability modifier applies to this damage). This attack carries the curse of wereraven lycanthropy. Traits Mimicry . The wereraven can mimic simple sounds it has heard, such as a person whispering, a baby crying, or an animal chattering. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check. Regeneration . The wereraven regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the wereraven takes damage from a silvered weapon or a spell, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the wereraven’s next turn. The wereraven dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. Actions Multiattack (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only) . The wereraven makes two weapon attacks, one of which can be with its hand crossbow. Beak (Raven or Hybrid Form Only) . Melee Weapon Attack : +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 1 piercing damage in raven form, or 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage in hybrid form. If the target is a humanoid, it must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with wereraven lycanthropy. Shortsword (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only) . Melee Weapon Attack : +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. Hand Crossbow (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only) . Ranged Weapon Attack : +4 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit : 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. Change Shape . The wereraven polymorphs into a raven–humanoid hybrid or into a raven, or back into its humanoid form. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its humanoid form if it dies.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (shapechanger)
- Expansion: 9505
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Candlekeep Mysteries

