# Werewolf Favored by Malar

**description**: Malar the Beastlord, the god of bestial bloodlust, savagery, and evil lycanthropes, will sometimes choose amongst its worshippers champions to lead its flock. These champions must have proven itself in savage combat, displaying both unparalleled brutality and cunning. They Beastlord bestows upon them enhanced strength, ferocity, and extraordinary abilities. There are only a handful of such champions, known as Favored by Malar, and only one exists for each type of evil lycanthrope. The overall leader of the People of the Black Blood, a loosely organized tribe of evil lycanthropes that worship Malar, is almost always a Favored by Malar. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The werewolf has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing and smell. Pack Leader. The werewolf’s allies have advantage on attack rolls while within 20 feet of the werewolf, provided it isn’t incapacitated. Actions Multiattack (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only). In humanoid form, the werewolf makes two Greataxe attacks. In hybrid form, the werewolf makes one Bite attack and two Greataxe attacks, or one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) slashing damage. Bite (Wolf or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage. lf the target is a humanoid, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with werewolf lycanthropy. Claw (Wolf or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) slashing damage. Change Shape. The werewolf polymorphs into a Large wolf-humanoid hybrid or into a Large dire wolf, or back into its true form, which appears humanoid. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Bonus Actions Savage Howl (Recharge 5–6). The werewolf emits a terrifying howl that also rallies its allies. Each ally that is within 30 feet of it, can hear it, and not already affected by Savage Howl gains advantage on attack rolls and saving throws until the start of the werewolf's next turn. All other creatures within 30 feet must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the werewolf's Savage Howl for the next 24 hours. Legendary Actions The werewolf can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The werewolf regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The werewolf moves up to its speed. Bite. The werewolf makes a Bite attack. Greataxe (Costs 2 Actions). The werewolf makes a Greataxe attack. Savagery of Malar (Costs 3 Actions). Up to three lycanthrope allies within 60 feet of the werewolf that can hear it can use their reactions to move up to half their speed and make one melee attack each with advantage on the roll.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Humanoid (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 13

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

