# White Ape

**description**: This hulking primate looms over others of its kind. Its filthy white fur is matted and yellowed, and a deranged look haunts its blood-red eyes. Awakened by Sorcery. White apes were once docile, gentle giants that roamed forested hills and savannah lands. Two thousand years ago, a kingdom of mages awakened the apes, raising their intelligence to near-human level so the beasts could be employed as soldiers and servants, protecting and replacing the humans who were slowly dying off. When the sorcerers died out, the apes remained. Arcane Wasting. The enchantment that imbued the apes with intelligence also bleached their fur white and made them carriers of the arcane wasting, a disease that hastened their creators’ demise. The apes are immune to the wasting’s effects, but they can pass it to other humanoids. Among spellcasters, the wasting spreads like a plague. Driven Away. The awakening enchantment also gave the white apes a strong desire to serve humans, but because of the risk from the disease, they are viciously driven away from settled areas. They are acutely aware of the injustice that was done to them, and generations of exile have turned their loyalty to animosity, especially toward arcane spellcasters. White Apes in Midgard In the Southlands, the white apes were created by the mages of the Empire of Morreg. Nearly 100 years ago, the apes were the source of a major outbreak of the arcane wasting in Morreg and Lignas. It has never quite disappeared, and it remains a threat all along the western coast. Arcane Wasting (Disease) An outbreak of arcane wasting is always met with horror, but that fear is felt tenfold by practitioners of magic both arcane and divine. When the bodily fluid of an infected creature touches a humanoid or when an infected creature casts a spell (direct or indirect) on a humanoid, that humanoid must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become infected with arcane wasting. Beginning 1d6 days after infection, the infected creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the end of each long rest. If the saving throw fails, the victim loses 1d3 Intelligence and 1d3 Wisdom. Lost Intelligence and Wisdom can’t be recovered while the disease persists. If the saving throw succeeds, nothing happens; the disease ends after the second consecutive successful saving throws. Once the disease ends, lost Intelligence and Wisdom can be restored by greater restoration or comparable magic. The disease is also cured by lesser restoration if the caster makes a successful DC 15 spellcasting check. ** Traits Hatred for Spellcasters: The white ape does one extra die of damage (d8 or d10, respectively) per attack against an enemy it has seen cast a spell. Actions Multiattack: The ape makes one bite attack and two claw attacks. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or contract the arcane wasting disease, noted in character bio. Claw: Melee Weapon Attack : +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 15 (2d10 + 4) slashing damage. Frenzy (1/Day): When two or more foes are adjacent to the ape, it can enter a deadly battle frenzy. Instead of using its normal multiattack, a frenzied white ape makes one bite attack and two claw attacks against each enemy within 5 feet of it. Melee attacks against the white ape are made with advantage from the end of that turn until the start of the white ape’s next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: monstrosity
- Source: Tome of Beasts
- Alignment: Neutral
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts

