# Wicked Sorcerer (Mockery of Truth)

**description**: Heretical sorcery allows a mystic to walk many paths that a more morally upright ritualist would deem abominable. From cultists who worship powerful oni of the Shadowlands to the necromantic Bloodspeakers who spread the teachings of their foul patriarch Iuchiban, there are many in Rokugan who are willing to trade away their empathy and morals to gain unnatural power. Some wicked sorcerers work alone, while others have cults to support their vile ambitions. The Shriveled Heart Pact. One of the most enduring Bloodspeaker sects formed from the original followers of Iuchiban are the Shriveled Heart Pact. Formed in the sixth century, this cult has persisted in some form ever since, despite the best efforts of numerous groups to eradicate it. Currently, its secret stronghold is in the Spine of the World Mountains, where its followers have spent decades gathering corpses of their victims in the deep volcanic tunnels, slowly amassing an army of the dead. Crimson Petals. One of the most dreaded sorcerers in the Shadowlands is The Obsidian Flower, a being of mysterious provenance and vast power. Possessing one of the Black Scrolls of Fu Leng and the knowledge within, she lords over the edifice called the Tomb of Fu Leng, a fortress of darkness deep in the Shadowlands. Some occultists within Rokugan have come to see her as a sort of intermediary to Fu Leng, believing that through her, their prayers can reach the fallen god. Whether she acknowledges this cult or not is unknown, but they have carried out a number of dark sacrifices in an attempt to win her attention over the centuries. The Lodge of the Laughing Moon. Worship of Lord Moon is not illegal in Rokugan. After all, he is the divine parent of the founders of the Empire, who lights the night sky to reveal treachery and deception. Yet he is also a figure of chaos, and so lodges dedicated to his worship tend to be secret organizations whose most dedicated members wield unpredictable, dangerous powers. Dens of Evil. Different heretical cults use a variety of locations for their clandestine activities. Some operate in haunted places, such as in fallen castles near ancient battlefields, in compounds built in the Shadowlands or storm-wracked mountains, or even hidden in plain sight in cities. In their den of evil, a wicked sorcerer has access to their lair abilities. Table A-8: Wicked Sorcerer Motivations D8 Roll Wicked Sorcerer Motivation 1 Wants revenge on a group or individual, and is willing to make anyone else suffer to get it. 2 Is driven by a deep insecurity, and seeks power as an affirmation of their worthiness. 3 Desires to use forbidden magic to bring a loved one back from the dead. 4 Yearns to know some universal truth, at any price. 5 Believes with conviction that evil and good must be in balance, and good has been ascendant too long. 6 Falsely sees themself as persecuted by some individual or group, and desires to destroy it. 7 Deludes themselves into believing that any evil they perform is necessary to make the world a better place. 8 Takes pleasure in the suffering of others. Heretical Sorcery Most evil incantations wielded by cultists, Bloodspeakers, and underworld fiends can be aptly modeled with necromancy and illusion spells from the SRD, reflavored to call upon corrupted and evil spirits. However, creating the undead works slightly differently in Rokugan than it does in most 5e materials, and so the mark of desecration spell is included here for use by NPCs (and PCs willing to sell their soul in exchange for power). Mark of Desecration Traits Flitting Shadows. The wicked sorcerer is protected by twisted spirits that protect it from harm. The first time the wicked sorcerer is targeted by an attack or forced to make a saving throw each round, its AC is 18 or it makes that saving throw with advantage. Foul Sacrifice. When the wicked sorcerer inflicts a critical hit on a creature with a melee weapon attack, it calls to the vile spirits that grant it power. The wicked sorcerer immediately regains the use of one of its expended spells. If it kills the creature with the critical hit, it regains the use of all of its expended spells instead. Heretical Art. Choose one or more of the following Heretical Arts for a wicked sorcerer. For every Heretical Art chosen beyond the first, increase its CR by +1. Mockery of Truth. The wicked sorcerer’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: disguise self , invisibility , minor illusion 1/day each: blur , dream , fear , hypnotic pattern Rites of Undeath. The wicked sorcerer’s spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: bestow curse , mark of desecration (see page 403), speak with dead 1/day each: contagion , inflict wounds , ray of enfeeblement , vampiric touch Unrestrained Power. The wicked sorcerer’s spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: darkness , eldritch blast , sending 1/day: arcane hand , arcane sword , hellish rebuke , shatter Actions Obsidian Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (2d4+2) necrotic damage. Inflicts a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Legendary Actions A wicked sorcerer can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The wicked sorcerer regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Cackling Wind. The wicked sorcerer blasts one creature within 10 feet backward with a howling torrent of souls. That creature must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On failure, a creature takes 2d6 necrotic damage and is pushed 20 feet away from the wicked sorcerer in a direction of the sorcerer’s choice. Rapid Casting. The wicked sorcerer unleashes a spell that it can cast at will. Treacherous Stab. The wicked sorcerer makes one melee attack with its obsidian dagger with advantage on the attack roll. Lair Actions A wicked sorcerer can use the following lair actions if encountered in its den of evil, and is considered CR 12 (8,400 XP). Fanatical Minions (Recharge 4–6). On initiative count 20 (losing ties), a wicked sorcerer in its den of evil can summon three ruffians from its cult to step forth and fight at its behest. Sorcerous Snare (Recharge 6). On initiative count 20 (losing ties), a wicked sorcerer can spring a trap on one creature it can perceive within its den of evil. This has the effect of the hold person spell from the SRD.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (any species)
- Alignment: any evil
- Expansion: 26129
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

