# Wild Hunt Monarch

**description**: Wild Hunt The wild hunt is an awe-inspiring and enigmatic group of fey who stalk and pursue their prey between worlds. Those few who have caught glimpses of these elusive beings and lived to tell the tale speak of clouds of green mist filled with spectral hounds, archers who fire bolts of magic with inhuman accuracy, and the sound of a melodious horn echoing for miles across the landscape. Wild Hunt Monarch Each wild hunt follows a wild hunt monarch, who travels effortlessly between the realm of the fey and the Material Plane in search of new quarry. These limber and regal humanoids have elk antlers, long pointed ears, flowing white hair, and luminescent green eyes. Traits Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when a wild hunt monarch hits with it (included in the attack). Call to the Hunt (1/Day). A wild hunt monarch can blow his hunt monarch’s horn as a bonus action to summon one wild hunt scout or two wild hunt archers. They appear within 100 feet of him at locations he chooses, and they remain on the same plane for 1 hour or until reduced to 0 hit points. They share a telepathic bond up to one mile to coordinate their hunting tactics. In the hands of any other creature, a hunt monarch’s horn functions as a regular horn. Greensight. The wild hunt monarch ignores leaves and other foliage when determining cover for a target. Innate Spellcasting. The wild hunt monarch’s spell casting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: speak with animals, speak with plants 3/day: charm monster, command, major image 1/day: dominate monster, fly Instinctive Cooperation. The wild hunt monarch has advantage on saving throws against effects caused by other members of the wild hunt. Monarch’s Glaive. A wild hunt monarch wields a glaive +3 that deals thunder damage on every hit. When the monarch successfully strikes a creature, the glaive alters its own nature, becoming a bane to that creature on all subsequent attacks. Until the monarch strikes another creature, the glaive deals 10 (3d6) necrotic additional damage on each successful strike to the creature it is a bane against. A wild hunt monarch can summon their glaive to their hand across any distance as a bonus action. If the wild hunt monarch dies, the glaive becomes a glaive +3 with no other properties. Planar Acclimation. A wild hunt monarch always treats the plane it is currently on as its native plane. Wild Gaze. Those who meet the gaze of a wild hunt monarch come face-to-face with the hunt’s fearful power and find it difficult to act in the face of such a legendary legacy. When a creature ends its turn within 30 feet of the wild hunt monarch, it must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or be slowed as if it were affected by the slow spell until the end of its next turn. This aura can be disabled or turned on as a bonus action. Wild Hunt Link. The wild hunt monarch increases the range of all other wild hunt links to 1 mile. In addition, any member of the wild hunt other than monarchs within 60 feet of a wild hunt monarch regain 10 hit points at the start of its turn, as long as the wild hunt monarch remains alive and conscious. Actions Multiattack. The wild hunt monarch makes three attacks with his glaive. Monarch’s Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10+6) slashing damage and 4 (1d8) thunder damage. Once it strikes a living creature, the glaive deals 10 (3d6) necrotic damage on all subsequent strikes against that creature. Legendary Actions The wild hunt monarch can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The wild hunt monarch regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Move. The wild hunt monarch moves up to its speed. This does not provoke opportunity attacks. Attack. The wild hunt monarch makes an attack with its glaive. Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The wild hunt monarch casts one innate spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 20

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

