# Wild Hunt Horse

**description**: Wild Hunt The wild hunt is an awe-inspiring and enigmatic group of fey who stalk and pursue their prey between worlds. Those few who have caught glimpses of these elusive beings and lived to tell the tale speak of clouds of green mist filled with spectral hounds, archers who fire bolts of magic with inhuman accuracy, and the sound of a melodious horn echoing for miles across the landscape. Wild Hunt Horse These powerful steeds stand upon wispy puffs of air, their grassy manes and tails swishing majestically in the wind. When they are not participating in a hunt, wild hunt horses enjoy constructing complicated courses through land and sky and racing each other for ever-changing stakes. Traits Greensight. The wild hunt horse ignores leaves and other foliage when determining cover for a target. Innate Spellcasting. The wild hunt horse’s spell casting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: speak with animals, speak with plants 3/day each: mage hand 1/day each: freedom of movement, tree stride (self plus willing rider) Instinctive Cooperation. The wild hunt horse has advantage on saving throws against effects caused by other members of the wild hunt. Planar Acclimation. A wild hunt horse always treats the plane it is currently on as its native plane. Trampling Charge. If the wild hunt horse moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a hooves attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the wild hunt horse can make a hooves attack against the target as a bonus action. Wild Gaze. Those who meet the gaze of a wild hunt horse come face-to-face with the hunt’s fearful power and find it difficult to act in the face of such a legendary legacy. When a creature ends its turn within 30 feet of the wild hunt horse, it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be slowed as if it were affected by the slow spell until the end of its next turn. This aura can be disabled or turned on as a bonus action. Wild Hunt Link. All members of the wild hunt within 500 feet of the wild hunt horse, including the horse itself, increase their speed by 10 feet (included in Speed). Actions Multiattack. The wild hunt horse makes three attacks, one with its bite and two with its hooves. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (3d12+9) piercing damage. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10+9) bludgeoning damage. Bewildering Hoofbeats. The wild hunt horse can make it seem as though hundreds of horses are approaching from all directions. Each creature within 60 feet of the wild hunt horse that can hear must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the creature is confused as per the confusion spell for 1 minute. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. On a successful save, is the creature is immune to bewildering hoofbeats for 1 hour. Deafening Cry (3/Day). The wild hunt horse emits a thundering cry in a 30-foot radius around itself. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 56 (16d6) thunder damage and becomes deafened for 1 minute. A creature takes half as much damage on a success and does not become deafened.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fey
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 17526
- Challenge Rating: 15

**publisher**: Paizo

**book**: Kingmaker Bestiary (5e)

