# Wind Witch

**description**: A massive tumbleweed bounces along the barren landscape. Suddenly it pivots and rushes forward with violent intent. The wind witch is a large, sentient tumbleweed that endlessly patrols the deserts and wastes. These cursed plants are full of malice for travelers who attempt to cross the desolate places wind witches call home. Cursed Existence. Wind witches often accost unfortunate travelers lost in the vastness of the desert. Some wind witches work together with sand hags (see Tome of Beasts ), bringing the hags new victims to torment. Dogged Hunters. Once a wind witch has marked a group of travelers as prey, it harasses them for days, often returning to the travelers every few hours even after defeated. As long as the wind witch isn't completely destroyed, it returns for another attempt. Fiery Destruction. Fire is a sure way of destroying a wind witch. However, this tactic comes with risk. Wind witches catch fire easily, but this seldom stops their attacks. They continue to attack after being set ablaze, scorching their prey as they burn. Cursed Plant. If damage reduces the wind witch to 0 hp, it becomes an inanimate tumbleweed and travels with the wind. It regains 5 hp every hour, regaining consciousness after the first. This trait doesn't function if the wind witch took fire damage on the same round it was reduced to 0 hp or if its body was destroyed. Flammable. When a wind witch takes fire damage, it catches fire, taking 3 (1d6) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. The wind witch continues burning until it takes cold damage or is immersed in water. A creature that touches the wind witch or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it while it is burning takes 3 (1d6) fire damage. While burning, the wind witch deals an extra 3 (1d6) fire damage on each melee attack, and it deals 7 (2d6) fire damage to a captured creature at the start of its turn. Tumbleweed Form. The wind witch can enter a hostile creature's space and stop there. Actions Multiattack. The wind witch can make two Slam attacks, or it makes one Slam attack and uses Capture. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+ 3) bludgeoning and 4 (1d8) piercing damage. Capture. The wind witch envelopes one Medium or smaller creature in its space. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be restrained inside the wind witch. While restrained, the target can't be hit by the wind witch's Slam attack, but the target takes 5 (2d4) piercing damage if it takes an action that requires movement, such as attacking or casting a spell with somatic components. When the wind witch moves, the captured creature moves with it. The wind witch can have only one creature captured at a time. A creature within 5 feet of the wind witch can take an action to pull a restrained creature out of the swarm. Doing so requires a successful DC 13 Strength check, and the creature making the attempt takes 5 (2d4) piercing damage. Reactions Bouncy Escape. When it takes damage from a melee attack, the wind witch can move up to half of its flying speed. This movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. The wind witch releases a captured creature when it uses Bouncy Escape.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: Chaotic Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

