# Witch Taker Legate

**description**: The Witch Taker Legate appears in Midnight - Legacy of Darkness. The Legates Legates have already been discussed extensively elsewhere, and you can find more information in the Order of Shadow section. There are many different legates with different abilities and skills, but one thing unites them; their devotion to Izrador and the dark powers they receive in return. Witch Taker legates are cunning and dangerous hunters who specialize in subduing and capturing spellcasters or eliminating spellcasters who may be dangerous. They are almost always accompanied by an astirax companion. Human Servants of the Shadow Though the ranks of the Shadow’s armies are filled with legions of orcs, many humans also serve Izrador. Some of these are devoted followers, while others are press-ganged recruits, and many sign on to the Shadow simply for a meal or a chance to exercise a bit of power over their former neighbors. And of course, many of the legates who serve the Shadow are humans as well. Humanoids and Forces of the Shadow Humanoids make up the bulk of intelligent creatures found in Eredane. This broad categorization includes humans and all of the fey, orcs, and goblinoids. Many of the common folk go their entire lives without seeing a different type of creature—and they prefer it that way. Even adventurers, for all of their travels, are far more likely to encounter humanoids than any other creatures. There simply are not that many of the other types around. The history of the world can be said to be that of the humanoids, since it was they who kept the records and they who have performed the great deeds and participated in the great tragedies of the world. Humanoids of Eredane Many of the most numerous humanoids in Eredane are detailed earlier in this book ( Races of Midnight ). However, there are other intelligent humanoid cultures in Eredane, and a few of them are detailed here. In addition, most of the forces of the Shadow’s armies are some form of humanoid. So profiles for some of the more common of the Shadow’s minions are presented in this section. Traits Spellcasting. The Witch Taker legate is a 6th level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). The Witch Taker legate has the following spells prepared. Cantrips (at will): light, resistance, thaumaturgy 1st level (4 slots): command, detect magic, disguise self 2nd level (3 slots): detect thoughts, hold person, ray of enfeeblement 3rd level (3 slots): bind/banish astirax, counterspell, dispel magic Actions Multiattack. The Witch Taker legate makes two melee attacks. Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage. Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage. Mage Hunter. The Witch Taker legate can choose one creature within 30 feet. That creature must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, it has disadvantage on saving throws it makes to maintain its concentration on a spell, and other creatures have advantage on any saving throws they make due to a spell cast by the creature. This lasts for one minute.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (human)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

