# Witchalder

**description**: A willowy, treelike figure with a mop of branches for hair undulates across the forest floor on a tangle of long, fleshy roots. It peers through the trees, watching for signs of danger. Wood hags (see) create witchalders by corrupting alder trees and endowing them with intelligence and a wicked demeanor. Resembling gaunt, horrific treants, witchalders are bound to the hag's will by the dark ritual that awakens them. Wood hags frequently employ witchalders as wandering watchdogs, compelling them to patrol the area near the hag's lair or act as guardians of the hag's gardens. Dark Gardens and Bloodstone Henges. While most witchalders serve hags, some work with dark fey or bloodthirsty druid circles. In these cases, the witchalder works with the most powerful caster or most charismatic fey; ancient witchalders are treated as trusted servants in dark fey courts. Capture Visitors. When a witchalder throttles a visitor to unconsciousness or incapacitates them with a pollen cloud, it takes them to their wood hag creator, an allied fey, or a druid elder to question or sacrifice. Deep Roots. The witchalder has advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would move it against its will along the ground. False Appearance. While the witchalder remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a diseased or dying alder tree. Sunlight Regeneration. While in sunlight, the witchalder regains 5 hp at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hp. Speak with Plants. The witchalder can communicate with Plants as if they shared a language. Actions Multiattack. The witchalder makes two Slam attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Throttle. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. The target is grappled (escape DC 15) if it is a Medium or smaller creature and the witchalder doesn't have two other creatures grappled. Shape Wood. The witchalder alters the shape of any one Medium or smaller wooden object (or portion of an object) no more than 5 feet in any dimension that it can see within 30 feet, forming it into any shape that suits the witchalder's purposes. For example, it could warp a boat's planks so it takes on water, seal a wooden door to its frame (or make a new door in a wooden wall), or twist a wooden weapon out of shape (or restore a warped one). Warped thrown or ranged weapons and ammunition become useless, while warped melee weapons give disadvantage on attack rolls. This action can't create items that ordinarily require a high degree of craftsmanship, such as a pulley. If the target is being worn or carried, the creature wearing or carrying it can make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, avoiding the effect on a success. Throttle. One creature grappled by the witchalder must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes 18 (4d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage and can't breathe, speak, or cast spells with verbal components until the grapple ends. On a success, the creature takes half the damage and remains grappled but suffers no other effects of Throttle. Pollen Cloud. (Recharge 6). The witchalder releases a cloud of poisonous pollen. Each creature within 15 feet of the witchalder must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 22 (5d8) poison damage and is incapacitated for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn't incapacitated. An incapacitated creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Plant
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 6

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

