# Wood Golem

**description**: Long ago, when elven lands were experiencing frequent raids from drow spellcasters, an order of artificers and druids that worshipped Corellon Larethian developed a means that could help defend against them. The first wood golems were created then, born from reconstituted dead trees, powered by arcane and divine magic, and bound with an elemental spirit from the Plane of Earth. Because of their hardiness and resistance to magic, the wood golems became instrumental in easily repelling the drow attacks. Soon, knowledge of crafting such golems was shared with other elven communities. As time passed, other races somehow learned how to create them as well. Wooden Knight. Sometimes mistaken for a treant, a wood golem resembles a 10-foot tall humanoid-shaped tree that is often designed to look like a knight. Elven runes etched on various surfaces of its body glow and pulse bluish-green. The wood golem moves with a stiff and lumbering gait, with every step accompanied by the sound of straining wood. Thick roots grow and extend from the golem's feet, constantly digging into the ground when the golem stands still. Entangling Briars. In combat, the wood golem bludgeons enemies with its massive fists. Against quick foes, the golem can cause thorny shrubs, weeds, and vines to sprout underneath its targets, entangling them. The prickly vegetation persists for a minute, painfully cutting and rooting those caught within it, allowing the golem to reach the targets. Enduring Sentinels. Wood golems are often encountered as guards in elven cities or druid homes. A few, now overgrown with vegetation, still endlessly guard forgotten elven crypts, tombs, and ruins. Traits Berserk. Whenever the golem starts its turn with 50 hit points or fewer, roll a d6. On a 6, the golem goes berserk. On each of its turns while berserk, the golem attacks the nearest creature it can see. If no creature is near enough to move to and attack, the golem attacks an object, with preference for an object smaller than itself. Once the golem goes berserk, it continues to do so until it is destroyed or regains all its hit points. Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form. Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The golem's weapon attacks are magical. Rooted. The golem has advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would pull, push, or knock it prone. Unusual Nature. The golem doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Actions Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks and uses Entangling Briars, if available. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Entangling Briars (Recharge 5-6). The golem targets one or more creatures it can see within 30 feet of it. Grasping prickly shrubs and thorny vines sprout underneath each target. Each target must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling briars for 1 minute. While restrained, a creature takes 3 (1d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, the restrained creature can make a DC 15 Strength check, escaping from the briars on a success. The briars can also be destroyed to end the effect. The entangling briars has AC 10, 15 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, poison, and psychic damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Construct
- Alignment: unaligned
- Expansion: 26536
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded III

