# Wrackwraith

**description**: A pile of seaweed and other detritus rises from the sand, forming into a vaguely humanoid shape. Humanoids that die when swept into the sea by the tide sometimes return to haunt the shores where they drowned. They lurk in wrack piles—tangles of seaweed, small animals and insects, and trash that wash up on the beach—waiting to reenact their deaths on unsuspecting living creatures. Tragic Drowning. While single wrackwraiths aren't rare, it's equally common to encounter groups. These result when multiple people drowned at the same time. Enemies Everywhere. People who encounter a wrackwraith often report that they were attacked from all sides. Even a solo wrackwraith can feel like multiple creatures because its victims have no idea where the next attack will originate. Angry Dead. Wrackwraiths form because others refused or were unable to help the drowning person, or because the person was purposely drowned. Wrackwraiths desire vengeance against the living. Incorporeal Movement. The wrackwraith can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Wrack Form. While animating a pile of wrack, the wrackwraith has an AC of 18 and can use the Slam and Deluge actions. In addition, the wrackwraith loses its immunity to the grappled and restrained conditions and can't fly. If the wrackwraith moves through a creature or object with Incorporeal Movement while animating wrack, the wrack falls off its ghostly body, ending this effect. Otherwise, it can end this effect as a bonus action. If the wrackwraith takes 15 damage or more in a single turn while animating wrack, the wrackwraith must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be ejected from the wrack, ending this effect. Actions Ghostly Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) necrotic damage. Slam (Wrack Form Only) . Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage. If the target is Large or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the wrackwraith can't use its Slam on attack another target. The target can't breathe or speak until the grapple ends. Animate Wrack. The wrackwraith animates wrack within 5 feet of it, pulling the debris into a protective covering over its ghostly body. Deluge (Wrack Form Only) . The wrackwraith fills the lungs of one creature it is grappling with seawater, algae, and other tiny ocean debris, harming creatures that breathe air or water. The target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target takes 14 (4d6) necrotic damage and begins choking as its lungs fill with water and ocean debris. On a success, the target takes half the damage and isn't choking. A choking creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Bonus Actions Wrack Jump (Recharge 4-6). The wrackwraith leaves its current wrack pile, magically teleports to another wrack pile within 60 feet of it, and uses Animate Wrack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Undead
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 19901
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Beasts 3

