# Wrath Demon

**description**: This slimy, purple and grey rubbery creature drips with an acidic ooze. Its mouth, far-too-large for its gapes in a snarl revealing rows of spiny teeth, and its tensed and muscled arms end in finely serrated claws. Wrathful Awakening. Though less wellknown than other demons, wrath demons are no less dangerous. Born of the raw, wrathful anger of slain, spiteful demons, a wrath demon's thirst for destruction is unquenchable. Servants of Revenge. Held in reserve amongst the armies of the abyss, wrath demons are only unleashed when their masters want revenge. Given a name and a location, a wrath demon will not stop until it or its target is dead. Tactics. Wrath demons fight intelligently, seeking to destroy any foe that seems most capable of inflicting Injuries first. If a source of magical healing is present, they try to kill their targets outright rather than leaving them alive to be healed later. Their Swift Leap allows them to reposition quickly in the heat of battle, and stay on top of any enemy that tries to run, though they prefer to save their legendary actions for a Rending Tear whenever possible. Traits Acidic Body. Whenever a creature hits the wrath demon with an unarmed or natural weapon attack, the attacker takes 7 (2d6) acid damage. A creature grappled by the wrath demon takes this damage at the start of each of the wrath demon’s turns, and the wrath demon’s natural weapons deal an additional 7 (2d6) acid damage (included in attacks). Magic Resistance. The wrath demon has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Thirst for Revenge. As long as the wrath demon is Injured, it gains a +2 bonus to all damage rolls. This increases by 1 for each aspect beyond the first that has been Injured. Undying Wrath. If the wrath demon would be reduced to 0 hit points, it is reduced to 1 hit point and gains a special Injury of Setback I severity, “Susceptible”. The only way for a wrath demon to be slain is with a Death Blow. Rash Fighter. The wrath demon’s Injury thresholds are always 1 tier lower than its maximum hit points (included in stat block). Actions Multiattack. The wrath demon makes a Spiny Bite attack and two attacks with its Serrated Claw or Throw Acid attacks. Spiny Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage, plus 7 (2d6) acid damage, and the target must make a Strength saving throw or Strength (Athletics) check DC 17 or be grappled. If the wrath demon makes another Spiny Bite attack, it automatically drops the grappled creature. Serrated Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, one target, reach 5 feet. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) acid damage. Throw Acid. Ranged Attack: +7 to hit, one target, range 30/60. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) acid damage, and the target must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take a -1 penalty to AC until the end of the wrath demon’s next turn. This penalty does not stack with itself. Reactions Bounce-Back. Whenever a creature misses the wrath demon with a melee weapon, the wrath demon can cause the weapon to bounce off its rubbery hide into the attacker, dealing 13 (2d8+4) damage of whatever damage type the weapon normally deals. Legendary Actions The wrath demon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The wrath demon regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Swift Leap. The wrath demon leaps in a straight line to any space within 30 feet without provoking opportunity attacks. Any creature size Medium or smaller it has grappled moves with it. Predatory Preparation. The wrath demon gains advantage on its next attack roll made before the end of its next turn as long as it doesn’t move. Rending Tear (Costs 2 actions). The wrath demon tears its teeth from a foe grappled by its Spiny Bite. That creature takes damage as though it had hit with the Spiny Bite attack, and the creature is no longer grappled. The creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or gain a special Injury, “Shredded”. While Injured in this way, the creature’s Injury thresholds are reduced by 5. This Injury takes the place of a Handicap III core Injury. If the creature already has a Handicap III core Injury, it counts as the next lowest severity. If the creature has all severities up to Handicap III, it counts as the next highest one instead, up to a maximum of Lethal IIIII, in which case the Injury gains the effects of The End is Nigh in addition to its other normal effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: fiend
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 11

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

