# Xaantikorijek

**description**: Traits Static Shield ( 3 /Day). When Xaantikorijek fails a saving throw, he can succeed instead. When he does, his sight, blindsight, and truesight are reduced to a range of 30 feet until the start of his next turn. Storm of the Gods. Lightning and thunder damage dealt by Xaantikorijek ignore damage resistance. Actions Multiattack. Xaantikorijek makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage plus 5 (1d10) lightning damage, and Xaantikorijek can move the target up to 20 feet in any direction. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) thunder damage, and the target is knocked prone. Fulminating Breath (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Xaantikorijek exhales lightning in a line that is 120 feet long and 30 feet wide. Each creature in that area must make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 66 (12d10) lightning damage and has disadvantage on saving throws until the end of Xaantikorijek’s next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and suffers no other effect. Bonus Actions Lightning Discharge. Xaantikorijek makes one Bite attack. On a hit, Xaantikorijek’s teeth spark with energy, dealing an extra 11 (2d10) lightning damage to the target and to one other enemy within 60 feet of the target. Reactions Voice of Negation. When a creature Xaantikorijek can see within 60 feet of him uses an action or bonus action to cast a spell, Xaantikorijek speaks an arcane word, forcing the creature to make a DC 23 saving throw using their spellcasting ability. On a failed save, the target takes 16 (3d10) thunder damage and is unable to cast spells until the end of their turn, but the spell slot is not expended and the creature’s action is not lost. Villain Actions Xaantikorijek has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Voice of Reverence. Xaantikorijek speaks an ancient word of authority into the mind of each creature of his choice within 60 feet of him. Each target must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or fall prone. A creature who falls prone in this way takes 22 (4d10) thunder damage if they stand up before the end of Xaantikorijek’s next turn. Action 2 : Fulguration. Xaantikorijek sheds his physical form to become a being of lightning until the end of his next turn. While in this form, Xaantikorijek gains the following benefits: He is resistant to all damage. He can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. His movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. He can move through any creature’s space, and when he moves into a creature’s space for the first time on a turn, that creature takes 16 (3d10) lightning damage. Action 3 : Voice of the Ages. Xaantikorijek recites an ancient lament that reverberates in nearby souls. Each enemy within 60 feet of Xaantikorijek who can hear him must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 44 (8d10) psychic damage, falls prone, and is unable to stand up for 1 minute as they weep uncontrollably (save ends at end of turn). On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and suffers no other effect.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 23

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

