# Xafirex, Lord of the Fallen

**description**: Xafirex is an old, not quite ancient, red dragon whose mind and soul have been scarred with unknowable torments. After undergoing a transformation of spirit, Xafirex has managed to retain his mind despite a now unquenchable thirst for the suffering of lesser creatures. His fiery breath sears and scars the minds and souls of his enemies, leaving them to undergo a similar transformation and become soldiers in his quest for destruction. Traits Oppress the Scarred. At the start of each of their turns while within 150 feet of Xafirex, or when entering that area for the first time on a turn, a creature that has at least 1 Mindscar must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on attack rolls made against Xafirex and grant him advantage on saving throws against their spells and effects until the start of their next turn. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Xafirex fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Legendary Toughness (3/Day). When Xafirex gains an Injury, he can choose to ignore the effects of the Injury until he finishes a long rest. Join the Fallen. Whenever Xafirex reduces a creature to 0 hit points, inflicts an Injury, or scores a critical hit, all creatures within 300 feet that can hear or see the target of his attack must succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or gain a Mindscar. A creature who gains three Mindscars begins to lose its mind. During its next long rest, it will begin to scar its flesh with whatever tools are available to it. Once its rest is completed, it becomes one of the Fallen. Mindscars can be removed by any process that can remove a curse, although mental trauma will still remain. If the mental trauma is overcome, the Mindscars are removed as well. Relish the Pain. Whenever Xafirex suffers an Injury, he gains a +1 bonus to damage rolls until the Injury is removed (up to their proficiency bonus), and gains temporary hit points equal to ½ the threshold of the Injury gained. Xafirex never has damage loss regardless of its hit point tier for Injury thresholds, and always suffers an Injury when it takes enough damage to become Injured (the Injury it gains is chosen by the damage dealer). Actions Multiattack. Xafirex makes a Bite attack and uses Crushing Stomp twice in areas that do not overlap. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, one target, reach 15 feet. Hit: 20 (2d12+7) piercing damage, plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. Xafirex can choose to grapple the target. If he does, the target is automatically released the next time he makes a Bite attack. Crushing Stomp. Xafirex stomps the ground, crushing it under his weight. Each creature in a 10-foot high, 15-foot square within 5 feet of Xafirex must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take 17 (5d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. On a successful saving throw, a creature takes half damage and is not knocked prone. If a creature at the center of the square fails its saving throw by 5 or more, that creature is grappled by Xafirex, and is restrained while grappled in this way. A creature grappled by Xafirex in this way is released when Xafirex uses that leg to use Crushing Stomp again. Mindfire Storm (recharge 5-6). Xafirex exhales a cyclone of fire centered on himself. Each creature in a 50-foot radius centered on Xafirex must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or take 35 (10d6) fire damage plus 35 (10d6) psychic damage. A successful saving throw halves the damage. Reactions Swat Aside. When a creature misses Xafirex with an attack made from within 10 feet of him, Xafirex can use his reaction to bat the creature aside with his leg or tail. If he does, that creature must make a DC 20 Strength saving throw or take 17 (5d6) bludgeoning damage, be pushed away 10 feet, and be knocked prone. On a successful saving throw, a creature takes half damage, is not pushed, and is not knocked prone. Legendary Actions Xafirex can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Xafirex regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Bow Before Me (Costs 2 Actions). Xafirex beats his wings violently, taking flight and battering nearby creatures. Each creature within 20 feet of Xafirex when he takes this action must make a DC 20 Strength saving throw or take 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half damage and is not knocked prone. Then, Xafirex flies up to half his speed in any direction without provoking opportunity attacks. Xafirex cannot use this action if his fly speed is 0 or he cannot fly. Wring The Flesh From Their Bones. Xafirex shakes a creature grappled by his Bite, carving flesh from bone. That creature must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) slashing damage and gain the lowest severity Injury that they have not yet suffered. Let Fear Rain Upon Them. Xafirex must have an Injury to take this action. A haze of blood spurts from one of Xafirex’s wounds, vaporized by his internal heat, before raining down on creatures around him. Each creature in a 15-foot radius centered on a point within 15 feet of Xafirex must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic damage, and be frightened of Xafirex until the end of their next turn. A creature that fails its saving throw by 10 or more also gains a Mindscar. The next time Xafirex is hit by an attack made with intent to Injure, that attack deals an additional 7 (2d6) points of damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28072
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

