# Xamaron Soldier

**description**: Xamaron The xamaron are a race of spacefaring insectoids infecting and infesting entire worlds and civilizations with ruthless tactics and extrinsic technology. Branded as an intergalactic scourge, they carry no emotion, keep no allies, and show no remorse. Their only goal is the perpetuation of their species through the extinction of others. Cunning Usurpers. These insectoids are often mistaken for a mindless horde that swarms unsuspecting worlds with overwhelming numbers. However, their tactics are far more sinister. Targets of a xamaron invasion are first infiltrated from within, the population infected with a weaponized virus designed to create sleeper agents and dedicated servants. Simultaneously, secret hives are established beneath the planetary surface, using the world itself as an energy-harvesting tool. When the horde attacks, it is a tactical strike from within, while invading ships descend from the nearby stars. Advanced Technologies. Xamaron colonies travel through space using specially designed hive ships, each equipped with large-scale defenses and a squadron of starfighters. Upon the invasion of a world, the colony spawns new members to operate the hive ship and travel to their next invasion target. Xamaron soldiers use a special armament called a qethket, a bio-linked energy weapon that converts from a melee weapon to an energy blaster. The Hierarchy. Each xamaron colony has two monarchs, each serving a primary function in cultivating the species. Their central nests operate as a hub from which other subterranean nests expand into a web-like network, each presided over by a spawn of the two monarchs. These two monarchs and their weavers are the only members of their colony capable of independent thought, while most of the soldiers and workers are programmed with a shared hive-mind of orders, tactics, and goals. This is one of the primary reasons behind the lack of understanding of their overall ambitions and intentions. Symbiomutation. The xamaron virus is elegantly designed to have multiple methods of delivery upon an unsuspecting species. The bodies of the dead become incubators, while the living infected go through a process called "Symbiomutation," where the virus redesigns the genetic makeup while replacing the thoughts and memories of the host. The dendus, whose homeworld was originally decimated by the xamaron, have made efforts to research the insectoids. The current belief is that the xamaron monarchy is capable of wielding forging techniques similar to those of espers, and the deadly virus is crafted using such methods. Due to the origins of this virus, espers in particular tend to be more resistant to its effects. The Xamaron Virus A humanoid creature can contract the xamaron virus by being stung by a xamaron. A humanoid hit by a xamaron's stinger attack must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 + the xa-maron's proficiency bonus + the xamaron's Constitution modifier) or become afflicted. An afflicted creature can't regain hit points. The virus can be removed with the restore pattern power or similar effect. If the virus is not re-moved within 48 hours, the creature is trans-formed into a xamaron thrall in 1d4 days. Xamaron Thrall Thralls are the lowest form of xamaron, tasked with being builders, workers, and gatherers within the colony. Created through symbiomutaion, they appear mostly humanoid, though close inspection reveals traits such as patches of insect carapace beneath the skin, elongated limbs, blackened eye sockets, or various growths and mutations over their bodies. Some hide these features under heavy clothing, coats, or headwear to blend into crowds and gather information for their masters. Xamaron Soldier The most common type of true xamaron, soldiers have the dual role of invader and defender. They are exponentially more dangerous within a unit of other soldiers, each willing to sacrifice themselves without hesitation for the benefit of the hive. Xamaron Centurion Centurions are the elite warriors of the colony. They guard the central layers of the nest. Some also venture out with groups of soldiers when raiding more technologically advanced settlements. They wear heavier armor than normal soldiers and are armed with tech-powered polearms. Xamaron Monarch Capable of thought outside of the shared hive, monarchs serve as the overseers and tacticians for their colony. They are extraordinarily intelligent and cunning, capable of shaping energies with their sheer will alone. There are up to two monarchs in any colony.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

