# Xamaron Monarch

**description**: Xamaron The xamaron are a race of spacefaring insectoids infecting and infesting entire worlds and civilizations with ruthless tactics and extrinsic technology. Branded as an intergalactic scourge, they carry no emotion, keep no allies, and show no remorse. Their only goal is the perpetuation of their species through the extinction of others. Cunning Usurpers. These insectoids are often mistaken for a mindless horde that swarms unsuspecting worlds with overwhelming numbers. However, their tactics are far more sinister. Targets of a xamaron invasion are first infiltrated from within, the population infected with a weaponized virus designed to create sleeper agents and dedicated servants. Simultaneously, secret hives are established beneath the planetary surface, using the world itself as an energy-harvesting tool. When the horde attacks, it is a tactical strike from within, while invading ships descend from the nearby stars. Advanced Technologies. Xamaron colonies travel through space using specially designed hive ships, each equipped with large-scale defenses and a squadron of starfighters. Upon the invasion of a world, the colony spawns new members to operate the hive ship and travel to their next invasion target. Xamaron soldiers use a special armament called a qethket, a bio-linked energy weapon that converts from a melee weapon to an energy blaster. The Hierarchy. Each xamaron colony has two monarchs, each serving a primary function in cultivating the species. Their central nests operate as a hub from which other subterranean nests expand into a web-like network, each presided over by a spawn of the two monarchs. These two monarchs and their weavers are the only members of their colony capable of independent thought, while most of the soldiers and workers are programmed with a shared hive-mind of orders, tactics, and goals. This is one of the primary reasons behind the lack of understanding of their overall ambitions and intentions. Symbiomutation. The xamaron virus is elegantly designed to have multiple methods of delivery upon an unsuspecting species. The bodies of the dead become incubators, while the living infected go through a process called "Symbiomutation," where the virus redesigns the genetic makeup while replacing the thoughts and memories of the host. The dendus, whose homeworld was originally decimated by the xamaron, have made efforts to research the insectoids. The current belief is that the xamaron monarchy is capable of wielding forging techniques similar to those of espers, and the deadly virus is crafted using such methods. Due to the origins of this virus, espers in particular tend to be more resistant to its effects. The Xamaron Virus A humanoid creature can contract the xamaron virus by being stung by a xamaron. A humanoid hit by a xamaron's stinger attack must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 + the xa-maron's proficiency bonus + the xamaron's Constitution modifier) or become afflicted. An afflicted creature can't regain hit points. The virus can be removed with the restore pattern power or similar effect. If the virus is not re-moved within 48 hours, the creature is trans-formed into a xamaron thrall in 1d4 days. Xamaron Thrall Thralls are the lowest form of xamaron, tasked with being builders, workers, and gatherers within the colony. Created through symbiomutaion, they appear mostly humanoid, though close inspection reveals traits such as patches of insect carapace beneath the skin, elongated limbs, blackened eye sockets, or various growths and mutations over their bodies. Some hide these features under heavy clothing, coats, or headwear to blend into crowds and gather information for their masters. Xamaron Soldier The most common type of true xamaron, soldiers have the dual role of invader and defender. They are exponentially more dangerous within a unit of other soldiers, each willing to sacrifice themselves without hesitation for the benefit of the hive. Xamaron Centurion Centurions are the elite warriors of the colony. They guard the central layers of the nest. Some also venture out with groups of soldiers when raiding more technologically advanced settlements. They wear heavier armor than normal soldiers and are armed with tech-powered polearms. Xamaron Monarch Capable of thought outside of the shared hive, monarchs serve as the overseers and tacticians for their colony. They are extraordinarily intelligent and cunning, capable of shaping energies with their sheer will alone. There are up to two monarchs in any colony. A Xamaron Monarch's Lair Monarchs make their homes in a cavernous areas deep beneath the ground, usually at either the center or rear of their well-protected colony. These caverns are reinforced and made either from the ruins of an underground structure or excavated naturally. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the monarch takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the monarch can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: The xamaron chooses a point on the ground that it can see within 120 feet of it. Sharp, chitinous appendages sprout from the ground in a 20-foot radius centered on that point. The area becomes difficult terrain and when a creature moves into or within the area, it takes 2d4 piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels. This effect lasts until the xamaron uses this lair action again or until the xamaron dies. A cloud of swarming insects fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point the xamaron chooses within 120 feet of it. The cloud spreads around corners and remains until the xamaron dismisses it as an action, uses this lair action again, or dies. The cloud is lightly obscured. Any creature in the cloud when it appears must make on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that ends its turn in the cloud takes 10 (3d6) piercing damage. The xamaron chooses a 20-foot-square area on the ground that it can see within 120 feet of it. The ground softens into a churning mud pit.. Each creature on the ground in that area when the pit appears must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or sink into the mud and become restrained. A creature can take an action to attempt a DC 15 Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within its reach and ending the restrained condition on a success. Regional Effects The region containing a xamaron monarchs’s hive possesses one or more of the following chracteristics: The land within 2 miles of the lair takes twice as long as normal to traverse, since the ground has been warped with cracks, sudden dips, and jagged outcroppings covered in thin layers of chitin. Water sources within 1 mile of the lair are tainted. Non-xamaron that drink such water regurgitate it within minutes. There are no sources of flora or vegetation within 1 mile of the hive, all having been absorbed or rotted away. Variant: Xamaron Weaver Xamaron weavers are monarchs capable of channeling energy through sorium. They are extremely rare and among the oldest of the xamaron, thought to be the pioneers behind the process of symbiomutation. A xamaron weaver has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP) and has the following traits: Esper Powers. The xamaron is a 12th level channeler. Its channeling ability is Intelligence (save DC 18, +10 to hit with esper powers). It has the following powers prepared: Prime (at will): analyze device, lightning ball, push, trigger device Rank 1 (4 slots): impedance, phase step, trauma Rank 2 (3 slots): blindness/deafness, psychic wave, stasis field Rank 3 (3 slots): corrupt pattern, unravel effect, withering grip Rank 4 (3 slots): gravity well, reactive field, throw, unfetter Rank 5 (2 slots): contagion, domination, toxic burst Rank 6 (1 slot): truesight, virus Legendary Action. The can choose the following as one of its legendary actions: Prime (Costs 2 Actions). The xamaron uses one if its prime powers.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 27052
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Threats Database

