# Xantharosian Half-dragon Template

**description**: A beast, fey, giant, humanoid, or monstrosity can become a Xantharosian half-dragon. Xantharosian half-dragons are born with the essence of the ancient fey dragon, Xantharos, whose power manifests through their very being. These gifted creatures quickly become dominant within their own ranks, or in the case of sophisticated, intelligent creatures, they are considered nobles by birthright within Xantharosian society. Xantharosian half-dragons come in all forms of dragonkind and carry a wisp of fey grace and magic. They are taller and heavier than normal half-dragons and live an extremely long life compared to humanoids. Xantharosian Half-Dragon Template Age. The Xantharosian half-dragon lives three times longer than their base race. Wings. The Xantharosian half-dragon has draconian wings and a flying speed of 60 feet. Scaled Body. The scales of the Xantharosian half-dragon provide it with a natural AC of 13. Senses. The Xantharosian half-dragon gains blindsight with a radius of 10 feet and darkvision with a radius of 60 feet. Breath Weapon (Recharge 5-6). A Xantharosian half-dragon can use its action to exhale destructive energy. The Xantharosian half-dragon’s draconic ancestry determines the exhalation’s size, shape, and damage type. When a Xantharosian half-dragon uses its breath weapon, each creature in the area of the exhalation must make a saving throw, the type of which is determined by its draconic ancestry. The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + the Xantharosian half-dragon’s Constitution modifier + its proficiency bonus. The Xantharosian half-dragon’s size determines the damage, area, and saving throw type of its breath weapon. Size Breath Weapon Large or smaller As a wyrmling dragon of the same color. Huge As a young dragon of the same color. Gargantuan As an adult dragon of the same color. Damage Immunity. The Xantharosian half-dragon becomes immune to a type of damage based on its color. Color Damage Immunity Black or copper Acid Blue or bronze Lightning Brass, gold, or red Fire Green Poison Silver or white Cold Fey Ancestry. The Xantharosian half-dragon has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to sleep. Languages. The Xantharosian half-dragon speaks Draconic in addition to any other languages it knows. Creatures that can’t speak can understand Draconic.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters

**publisher**: Elderbrain

**book**: Torrents of The Spellhoarder Compendium

