# Xardorok Sunblight

**description**: Xardorok Sunblight leads the Sunblight clan of duergar which, until recently, dwelled in the subterranean depths beneath the Spine of the World. In the guise of Deep Duerra, the duergar god of conquest, the archdevil Asmodeus visited Xardorok and urged him to conquer Icewind Dale, beginning with Ten-Towns. Dark Obsession. Xardorok is obsessed with chardalyn and can’t stand the thought of anyone else possessing it. He must have all the chardalyn that Icewind Dale has to offer and is using his ample supply to forge a dragon, which he plans to unleash upon Ten-Towns. See the sidebar on page 6 for more information about chardalyn. Father of Nine. Xardorok has been married three times and has sired nine children. He killed his first wife, Thizrun, for plotting to assassinate him. His second wife, Yrraska, was killed in a tunnel collapse along with two of their daughters. His third wife, Marral, was killed during a raid against a mind flayer enclave, along with another daughter and three sons. Xardorok killed his eldest son, Ulthoon, son of Thizrun, for plotting to overthrow him. His surviving offspring are two sons given to him by Marral, named Durth and Nildar. Clad in Chardalyn. Xardorok wears the following nonmagical items fashioned from chardalyn: a ninespired crown (two intact spires representing his two surviving sons, and seven partially broken-off spires representing his seven dead children), a suit of chain mail, and a spiked gauntlet. Traits Duergar Resilience. Xardorok has advantage on saving throws against poison, spells, and illusions, as well as to resist being charmed or paralyzed. Innate Spellcasting. Xardorok’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: eldritch blast (see “Actions” below), mage hand 1/day each: hold person, suggestion Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Xardorok has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Actions Multiattack. Xardorok attacks twice with a weapon or casts eldritch blast twice. Spiked Gauntlet. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage, or 8 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage while Xardorok is enlarged. Eldritch Blast (Cantrip). Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) force damage. Enlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute, Xardorok magically increases in size, along with anything he is wearing or carrying. While enlarged, Xardorok is Large, doubles his damage dice on Strength-based weapon attacks (included in his attacks), and makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage. If Xardorok lacks the room to become Large, he attains the maximum size possible in the space available. Invisibility (Recharge 4–6). Xardorok magically turns invisible until he attacks, he casts a spell, he uses his Enlarge, or his concentration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment Xardorok wears or carries is invisible with him. Reactions Hellish Rebuke (2/Day). When Xardorok is damaged by a creature within 60 feet of him that he can see, the creature that damaged him is engulfed in hellish flames and must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (dwarf)
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 27909
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Icewind Dale - Rime of the Frostmaiden

