# Xircxi

**description**: Xircxi was the patriarch of all dragonkind during the Time of Years. He did not fight in the wars that followed the Sundering. This won him no friends, however, and he was considered both a coward and a traitor by the different factions. He went into self­imposed exile for more than a thousand years, until word came to him that the fallen god was using dragons in his war upon mankind. He emerged to lead his brethren against the corrupted dragons, an endeavor that culminated in the bloody Battle of the Wall, where many of Aryth’s dragons were slain. Xircxi himself was wounded in the battle, but he did not fall. Nonetheless, due to a malign curse placed upon him by Izrador himself, the wounds inflicted during that battle have never healed, and never will. Out of respect for his emergence as a leader during those dark times, two other dragons, Estherix and Agammon, agreed to serve as his companions. He now resides deep in a mountain in the central Kaladruns, though the exact location of his lair is unknown. He uses Estherix and Agammon as his eyes and ears to the world and occasionally tasks them to bring aid to great heroes in need. If the key to Xircxi’s recovery were ever to be discovered or the curse cast upon him by Izrador broken, Xircxi would be a force to be reckoned with, rivaling all but the Night Kings and Aradil in terms of power. Dragons Aryth’s dragons are each unique creatures whose abilities are not defined by the color of their scales. Their coloring may range from silver-gray or mottled green to deep black, and have features that vary from spiked armor plating to long snouts, allowing them to be easily differentiated from one another by those who are versed in draconic lore. The dragons are ancient creatures, perhaps even immortal, who have watched the growth and trials of the peoples of Aryth for thousands of years. They rarely involve themselves in the affairs of mortals, and when they do it is on their terms. They are not driven by the riches or power offered by the rulers of nations, but have their own motivations that are seldom fathomable by less long-lived races. The most notable exception to this was the corruption of many dragons by Izrador’s whisperings at the end of the Second Age. Although the dragons that survive today are fractured and individual, it was not always so. A sovereign once ruled dragonkind, and the dragons befriended the elder fey and were content to share the world with them. The Sundering had a terrible impact on both the dragons’ minds and their civilization as a whole, however, and they were split into many different factions that warred with each other throughout much of the First Age, even as the fey were splitting into the races now found throughout Aryth. These wars ravaged much of the world’s dragon population, until finally only a few hundred remained. The Battle of the Wall at the end of the Second Age further reduced this number. Today, a handful of dragons still serve the Shadow, whether driven to his side by madness or warped by the temptation of promises too alluring to resist. Those that are sympathetic to the oppressed people of Aryth hide from the world, helping where they can but fearful of being discovered and suffering the full wrath of the dark god and his Night Kings. Traits Curse of Izrador. Xircxi is cursed by Izrador; his Strength and Constitution always count as 10, even if he changes shape into another form that would have a higher Strength or Constitution. This reduces his To Hit bonus on all melee attacks by 10, reduces all damage dealt by his melee weapons by 10, and reduces his total hit points by 208, as well as affecting skills and saving throws. The curse cannot be removed by any normal or magical means, and can only be dispelled by a suitably epic quest designated by the GM. Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Xircxi fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Innate Spellcasting. Xircxi’s spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 22). Xircxi can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 1/day each: control weather, sunburst 3/day each: chain lightning, sunbeam, true seeing 3/day each: counterspell, sleet storm, slow Actions Multiattack. Xircxi can use his Frightful Presence. He then makes three attacks: one with his bite and two with his claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d10+10) piercing damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d6+10) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8+10) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 24 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 20 feet away from Xircxi and knocked prone. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Xircxi’s choice that is within 120 feet of Xircxi and aware of him must make a DC 23 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Xircxi’s Frightful Presence for one hour. Breath Weapon (Recharge 5-6). Xircxi uses one of the following breath weapons. Fire Breath. Xircxi exhales fire in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw, taking 55 (10d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. Stunning Breath. Xircxi exhales stunning gas in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 24 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for one minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Change Shape. Xircxi magically polymorphs into a humanoid or beast that has a challenge rating no higher than his own, or back into his true form. He reverts into his true form if he dies. Any equipment he is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (Xircxi’s choice). In a new form, Xircxi retains his alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, Legendary Resistance, lair actions, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this action. His statistics and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of the new form, except any calss features or legendary actions of that form. Legendary Actions Xircxi can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options listed here. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Xircxi regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Detect. Xircxi makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. Xircxi makes a tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 actions). Xircxi beats his wings. Each creature within 15 feet of Xircxi must succeed on a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw or take 17 (2d6+10) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Xircxi can then fly up to half his flying speed.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: lawful good
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

