# Xogomoc

**description**: A titan slumbers beneath each of the eight regions of Orden, rousing from their sleep every few millennia—so infrequently, most people view the titans as mere legends. References to these beings of immense form and power appear on the walls of ancient temples and in histories of ancient catastrophes. The few people who know the titans exist worship them as protectors and defenders against the end of the world. Though the titans of Orden rank among the most powerful creatures in the timescape, no texts even hint at where they came from, or who created them—if they were created. This section describes two titans: Goxomoc (GAUZ-ah-mock), titan of Ix, and the Kraken, titan of Higara. Some others, like the Phoenix, titan of Phaedros, are known, while the nature of several remains a mystery. Defenders of All the World. Legends and sages agree that the titans awaken only when their homeland, their people, or the entire world is threatened—but it’s unclear what these godlike creatures view as a threat. They certainly don’t seem interested in local politics, tyrants, plagues, or natural disasters. In truth, they await an existential threat powerful enough to destroy the world. Minds Forever Voyaging. The titans’ powers combine psionics and elemental magics. Sages believe each titan is associated with a different element: air, earth, fire, water, and beyond. Though the titans sleep, their dreams affect reality. For millennia, sailors around Higara have reported giant tentacled sea monsters they called krakens; these are obviously not the Kraken, but aspects manifested from that titan’s dreams. Complex Communication. Direct communication with most titans is difficult, as mortals rarely register on their awareness. A powerful talent or beastheart might be able to forge a mental link with a titan, but they’d receive only impressions, images, feelings, and abstract ideas. Arise, Great Titan! Awake! Long-lost rituals could rouse a slumbering titan—though such a supplicant runs a very high risk of failure and death. The people of Ix speak of a time long ago when their priests woke Goxomoc to repulse a synlirii invasion, and they’re confident they could rouse their titan again in time of need. Sages believe that waking a titan for no reason would provoke them into a ruinous march, destroying entire swaths of Orden and wiping out thousands of mortal souls. Evil cultists seeking the destruction of the world agree, and thus they search tirelessly for the ritual to rouse a titan. Traits Amorphous. Xogomoc can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Discorporation. When Xogomoc drops to 0 hit points or dies, all conditions and other effects end for him. He teleports back to the place where he slumbers, transforms into Goxomoc with all his hit points, and falls unconscious. Disruptive Resistance ( 3 /Day). If Xogomoc fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead, and his Lightning Aura doesn’t function until the end of his next turn. Lightning Aura. A creature who starts their turn within 60 feet of Xogomoc must make a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Power of the Storm. Lightning and thunder damage dealt by Xogomoc ignore damage resistance. Siege Monster. Xogomoc deals double damage to objects and structures. Supernatural Resistance. Xogomoc has advantage on saving throws against powers, spells, and other supernatural effects. Actions Multiattack. Xogomoc makes two Lightning Strike attacks. Lightning Strike. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 15 ft. or range 600 ft., one target. Hit: 29 (3d12 + 10) lightning damage, and another target within 30 feet of the first must succeed on a DC 27 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage. Energy Flow. Xogomoc moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. During this move, he can move through the spaces of other creatures, and it doesn’t count as difficult terrain. The first time he moves through each creature’s space, that creature takes 22 (4d10) lightning damage. Lightning Breath (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Xogomoc breathes lightning in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 27 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 71 (11d12) lightning damage and can’t take reactions until the end of their next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and suffers no other effect. Bonus Actions Gone in a Flash. Xogomoc teleports, along with any creatures inside him (see Into the Storm), up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Each creature within 10 feet of the space he left must make a DC 25 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions Shock Cage. When a creature Xogomoc can see within 30 feet of him hits him with an attack, he encircles the attacker in bands of lightning. The creature takes 22 (4d10) lightning damage and is restrained until the end of their next turn. Villain Actions Xogomoc has three villain actions. He can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. He can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Thunderstruck. Xogomoc summons an awe-inspiring clap of thunder. Each creature within 120 feet of him who can hear him must succeed on a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw or be dazed for 1 minute (save ends at end of turn). Action 2 : Into the Storm. Xogomoc summons tempest winds that buffet each enemy he can see within 30 feet of him. Each target must make a DC 25 Strength saving throw. On a successful save, a creature takes 16 (3d10) lightning damage. On a failed save, a creature is drawn inside Xogomoc. While inside Xogomoc, a creature is restrained, moves with Xogomoc, has total cover against attacks and other effects outside Xogomoc, and takes 16 (3d10) lightning damage plus 16 (3d10) thunder damage at the start of each of their turns. A creature inside Xogomoc can use an action to make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to move out of Xogomoc, entering an unoccupied space of their choice within 5 feet of Xogomoc on a success. If Xogomoc takes 60 or more damage on a single turn or is reduced to 0 hit points, each creature inside of Xogomoc is shunted out of him into an unoccupied space of their choice within 5 feet of Xogomoc. Action 3 : Behold True Power. Xogomoc unleashes lighting and wind in a chaotic storm. Each enemy within 120 feet of him must make a DC 25 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 44 (8d10) lightning damage and is moved up to 60 feet in any direction. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t moved.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan 
- Type: Elemental (Titan)
- Alignment: Neutral
- Expansion: 25493
- Challenge Rating: 30

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Flee Mortals

