# Xorbex

**description**: Xorbex is an erratic but friendly creature originating from the Far Realm. It is the proprietor of The Abyssal Gaze , a shop renowned for its many wondrous items. A self-proclaimed expert on all things magical, Xorbex has a child-like passion for both haggling and growing its collection of strange magic items and historic relics. The Abyssal Gaze may be located anywhere an alien eye-creature would be allowed to run a business and able to turn a profit on magic items. Currently, the shop is rumored to be in the floating Maelstrom Market , which Xorbex has helped establish. Background Nobody knows exactly where Xorbex came from – not even itself. Perhaps it was the manifestation of a dream or perhaps it was created by some otherworldly entity and propelled through the layers of reality and into the Material Plane. Whatever the case, less than half a century ago, Xorbex came into existence, with no recollection of its origin. Finding itself in a world inhabited by inferior beings, Xorbex set its eyes on a simple goal that has inspired countless adventurers before it: wealth and power. Xorbex spent its first decade of consciousness gathering riches and steadily obtaining power with deadly dedication. Before long, Xorbex had become captain of a renowned pirate fleet that most historians today agree is directly responsible for the fall of at least one kingdom. Xorbex will often reminisce fondly about that period of its life ("My beautiful, innocent youth. Oh, I understood so little and wanted so much!”) As Xorbex' treasure hoard grew, its interest for mundane riches faded. Over the years, Xorbex had developed an obsession for old magical relics and arcane rituals of ancient civilizations. Eventually, Xorbex decided to pass its captain's mantle to its first mate and set out to use its fortune on rare magical treasures. It was not long after that Xorbex crossed paths with the joyful halfling Kaela Waveheart – or, rather the dragon Kael'arizza in her favorite disguise (see Waveheart's Wonders ). The unlikely couple made quick friends, and their combined passion for magic treasure and consumption of rum led to the idea of creating a market that could traverse the oceans and collect magic items from the entire world. With this dream in mind, the two set out to build what would become the Maelstrom Market . Roleplaying Xorbex Xorbex' otherworldly appearance can be unnerving, as its eyestalks scan its customers' every move (while they, in turn, try to not stare at the drool flooding from Xorbex' mouth and down its beard-like tentacles). Xorbex' eyes seem to have lives of their own, often looking around in different directions or all focusing intently on a specific object or individual. Xorbex' years as a merchant have somewhat softened it. While not outright polite, Xorbex' demeanor alternates strangely between child-like enthusiasm and a scholar's knowing contemplation. The aberration is unable to hide its excitement when it sees a new magic item, and it almost can't stop itself from sharing historical facts and perspectives whenever remotely relevant (usually starting with an "actually, that reminds me of...”) Xorbex experiences fits of forgetfulness and erratic behavior. Partially due to these fits, and partially due to its habit of splitting its focus between multiple tasks, Xorbex often loses track of conversations or forgets important details, such as where it placed a magic item or the name of a legendary prince it wanted to reference. Other times, it starts rambling about off-topic events – or has a loud debate with itself about how to price a magic item ("A thousand gold pieces is too much! No, no, these humanoids don't know anything, I bet they'll pay that much and be happy, the fools!”) Xorbex isn't entirely aware of its faltering state of mind, but it is growing increasingly frustrated about not being able to remember details the way it used to.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Aberration
- Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
- Expansion: 27827
- Challenge Rating: 14

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Wanderer's Guide to Enchanted Emporiums

