# Yan-C-Bin

**description**: Yan-C-Bin (pronounced yan-see-bin) is the Prince of Evil Air. A being of great wisdom and malice, Yan-CBin’s plots began at the forging of the worlds. Subtler than the other elemental princes, Yan-C-Bin operates unseen, studying his enemies from afar, ambushing them swiftly, and vanishing before his foes can retaliate. His natural form is an invisible vortex of howling, swirling air 30 feet high and 15 feet wide, but Yan-CBin sometimes takes the shape of a gaunt, venerable, dark-skinned human with wispy white hair and glowing white eyes. When he wishes to remain unseen, Yan- C-Bin manifests only as a gust of cold wind flowing silently past. From his floating palace in the endless, cloudy skies of the Plane of Air, Yan-C-Bin watches worlds as they change over millennia. Evil aerial creatures worship the elemental prince as a god, and claim to see Yan-C-Bin’s eyes in swirling storms. Yan-C-Bin doesn’t care for their offerings, their sacrifices, or their worship. His only concern is the annihilation of the material realms as they are ripped apart by the superior elemental might of air and wind. Yan-C-Bin’s Lair Yan-C-Bin dwells in a palace of air on the Elemental Plane of Air. In his palace and in air nodes on the Material Plane (including the Howling Caves, described in chapter 5), Yan-C-Bin is master. He can use the following actions in his lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Yan-C-Bin takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; he can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Yan-C-Bin drops the temperature of the air, covering all surfaces with ice. This effect is identical to the sleet storm spell. Yan-C-Bin controls the surrounding air as an extension of himself. Each creature Yan-C-Bin designates must succeed at a DC 24 Constitution saving throw or be hoisted or flung 3d6 × 10 feet through the air. A creature smashed into a solid object or released in mid-air takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet moved or fallen. Yan-C-Bin creates a torrent of debris within 120 feet of him that lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. The debris lightly obscures every creature and object in the area for the duration. All creatures in the area must succeed at a DC 24 Wisdom saving throw or be blinded until initiative count 20 on the next round. Regional Effects When Yan-C-Bin inhabits an elemental node, the air is at his command. Temperatures fluctuate from blistering hot to freezing cold; thunder rolls and lightning cracks; powerful gales bear heavy creatures and objects aloft and hurl them with incredible force; cyclones touch down randomly, obliterating whatever they touch. Gale force winds tear across the landscape in a 5-mile radius, whisking away small or light objects, dismantling roofs and fences, tearing branches from trees, and making flight impossible. Small and Medium creatures move at half speed through the wind; Tiny creatures exposed to the wind are carried away with it at a rate of 40 feet per round unless they succeed at a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. Thunderstorms erupt in a 5-mile radius centered on Yan-C-Bin’s lair, creating deafening cracks of thunder and constant lightning. Every ten minutes the storm rages, creatures standing beneath the open sky have a five percent chance of being struck by lightning. A creature struck by lightning must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Cyclones touch down within a 5-mile radius of Yan-C-Bin’s lair. Every hour, there is a five percent chance that characters in this area are caught in the path of a cyclone moving 250 feet per round. Each character must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 33 (6d10) bludgeoning damage. Wooden or flimsy structures in the path of the cyclone are destroyed. Natural caverns and windblown canyons within 1 mile of the lair form intermittent portals to the Elemental Plane of Air, allowing elemental creatures into the mortal world to dwell near those locations. If Yan-C-Bin is destroyed or banished back to his home plane, the regional effects fade over the next 1d10 days. Princes of Elemental Evil For the most part, the elements that make up the world are indifferent to good or evil as mortals understand the concepts. Creatures such as fire elementals can be dangerous and destructive, but they have no particular aim other than to exist. However, some of the primordial powers of the elemental plane are tainted with true evil. These are the princes of Elemental Evil, old and jealous elemental beings that despise the world of living things. Each of the princes is a unique elemental lord of terrible power, and each commands the loyalty of many lesser elementals that have likewise been corrupted by their evil—as well as mortal worshipers who likewise seek to scour the world with the wrath of the elements. Each prince of Elemental Evil is a unique being unlike any other elemental, or any of the other princes. Some embody the combination of elements—for example, Bwimb, the Lord of Ooze, or Cryonax, the Prince of Evil Cold. However, the four princes most strongly associated with the cult of Elemental Evil are malicious embodiments of the four base elements. They are: Imix, Prince of Evil Fire (the All-Consuming Fire, the Eternal Flame) Ogrémoch, Prince of Evil Earth (Tyrant of Black Earth, the Mountain of Doom) Olhydra, Princess of Evil Water (the Crushing Wave, Well of Endless Anguish) Yan-C-Bin, Prince of Evil Air (the Shadow of the Four Winds, the Howling Hatred) Forces of Destruction. The princes aren’t concerned with spreading wickedness among mortals or making any kind of order or philosophy dominant in the world. Their evil is blind, destructive, and hungry. They hate the way the world is made and the natural laws that constrain their favored elements. They resent the gods who shaped the world, and the mortals for whom the world was shaped, especially mortals who seek to impose their will on the elements. The princes unleash natural catastrophes at every opportunity, and gladly crush or devour mortals to assert their mastery over the world. Uncooperative. While the princes of Elemental Evil share a love of destruction and hatred of mortals, they don’t cooperate with each other. Each is concerned only with advancing his or her own favored element. At best they are indifferent to each other, but each prince hates the prince representing the element opposite to its own (fire and water, or air and earth), and often goes to great lengths to block its enemy’s efforts or destroy its enemy’s followers. The Elder Elemental Eye. While the princes of Elemental Evil act independently of each other, there is a mysterious force that seems to link them together: the Elder Elemental Eye. Some sages believe that the Eye is a dark, primordial god that corrupted the elements in the beginning of the world, giving rise to each of the princes. Others hold that the Elder Elemental Eye is a binding force—a common fate, or perhaps a curse— that ties the princes together. Whenever one aspect of Elemental Evil takes root in the world, the other three soon follow, and the four cults are often found together despite their mutual antipathy. Elemental Nodes. The princes of Elemental Evil seek to spread their power by sowing the seeds of elemental nodes throughout the world. Elemental nodes are places in the Material Plane that are suffused with energy from the Elemental Planes. For example, a subterranean magma chamber or a swamp with flaming gas seeps might be an elemental node of fire. Elemental nodes are like beachheads for the elemental princes, places from which they can reshape part of the world to their own tastes and wreak destruction on whatever is nearby. When an elemental prince succeeds in establishing a node, it channels its power—and its elemental minions— to that spot, spreading Elemental Evil like a cancer in the firmament of the world. Worshiped by Cults. The princes of Elemental Evil are indifferent to mortal followers. They aren’t gods and don’t crave worship, but evil mortals find that Elemental Evil is a ready source of magical power and lends itself to destructive uses. Cultists often gather near elemental nodes and attempt perilous rituals to tap into the power of Elemental Evil or attract the attention of one of the princes. These fell beings don’t hear prayers or grant spells, but they can serve as sources of power to those who learn to draw on their might. More often than not, the princes of Elemental Evil wind up destroying the mortals who called on them. Until they do, clever (or crazed) cultists can do a great deal of harm with the elemental power they borrow. Traits Air Form. Yan-C-Bin can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop there. He can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing if air could pass through that space. Empowered Attacks. Yan-C-Bin’s slam attacks are treated as magical for the purpose of bypassing resistance and immunity to nonmagical weapons. Innate Spellcasting. Yan-C-Bin’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: gust of wind, invisibility, lightning bolt 2/day each: chain lightning, cloudkill, haste Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Yan-C-Bin fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Yan-C-Bin has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Actions Multiattack. Yan-C-Bin makes two slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit : 20 (3d8 + 7) force damage plus 10 (3d6) lightning damage. Thundercrack (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Yan-CBin unleashes a terrible thundercrack in a 100-foot- radius sphere centered on himself. All other creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 24 Constitution saving throw or take 31 (9d6) thunder damage and be deafened for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and is deafened until the start of Yan-C-Bin’s next turn. Change Shape. Yan-C-Bin polymorphs into a Medium humanoid. While in polymorphed form, a swirling breeze surrounds him, his eyes are pale and cloudy, and he loses the Air Form trait. He can remain in polymorphed form for up to 1 hour. Reverting to his true form requires an action. Summon Elementals (1/Day). Yan-C-Bin summons up to three air elementals and loses 30 hit points for each elemental he summons. Summoned elementals have maximum hit points, appear within 100 feet of Yan-C-Bin, and disappear if Yan-C-Bin is reduced to 0 hit points. Legendary Actions Yan-C-Bin can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Yan-CBin regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Peal of Thunder. Yan-C-Bin unleashes a peal of thunder that can be heard out to a range of 300 feet. Each creature within 30 feet of Yan-C-Bin takes 5 (1d10) thunder damage. Teleport (Costs 2 Actions). Yan-C-Bin magically teleports up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space he can see. Anything Yan-CBin is wearing or carrying is teleported with him. Suffocate (Costs 3 Actions). Yan-C-Bin steals the air of one breathing creature he can see within 60 feet of him. The target must make a DC 21 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target drops to 0 hit points and is dying. On a successful save, the target can’t breathe or speak until the start of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: elemental
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 7390
- Challenge Rating: 18

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

