# Yeenoghu

**description**: The demon lord Yeenoghu, also known as the Beast of Butchery and the Gnoll Lord, appears as a battle-scarred gnoll towering 14 feet tall. He has matted fur covered with patchwork armor made from discarded shields and breastplates held together by chains and decorated by the flayed skin of his fiercest foes. His face is like a grinning predator’s skull. When Yeenoghu hunted across the Material Plane, packed of hyenas followed in his wake. Those that ate his kills became gnolls, emulating their master’s ways. Few others worship Yeenoghu, but those who do tend to take on a gnoll-like aspect, hunched over, and filing their teeth down to points. Yeenoghu wields a triple-headed flail called the Butcher, which he can summon into his hand at will, although he is as likely to tear his prey apart with his bare hands before ripping out its throat with his teeth. If Yeenoghu is killed anywhere other than the Abyss, he re-forms at full strength in the mansion of rotting meat and bones he calls home on his desolate, canyon-pocked layer of the Abyss. Traits Innate Spellcasting. Yeenoghu’s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: detect magic 3/day each: dispel magic, fear, invisibility 1/day: teleport Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Yeenoghu fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. Yeenoghu has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. Yeenoghu’s weapon attacks are magical. Rampage. When Yeenoghu reduces a creature to 0 hit points with a melee attack on his turn, Yeenoghu can take a bonus action to move up to half his speed and make a bite attack. Actions Multiattack. Yeenoghu makes three flail attacks. If an attack hits, he can cause one of the following additional effects, either of his choice or at random (each effect can be used only once per Multiattack): The attack deals an extra 13 (2d12) bludgeoning damage. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed until the start of Yeenoghu’s next turn. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be affected by the confusion spell until the start of Yeenoghu’s next turn. Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (1d12 + 9) bludgeoning damage. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (1d10 + 9) piercing damage. Legendary Actions Yeenoghu can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Yeenoghu regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. Charge. Yeenoghu moves up to his speed. Swat Away. Yeenoghu makes a flail attack. If the attack hits, the target must succeed on a DC 24 Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet in a straight line away from Yeenoghu. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target falls prone. Savage (Costs 2 Actions). Yeenoghu makes a bite attack against each creature within 10 feet of him.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: fiend (demon)
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 28744
- Challenge Rating: 24

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Baldur's Gate - Descent into Avernus

