# Yllosan

**description**: A powerful telepathic and telekinetic species—and the consummate spies of the Bellanic Accord—the yllosan (ee-LOE-san) are mysterious ghost-like beings that exist in a realm of pure thought, floating intangible through the material world of others. They communicate by telepathy and revel in infiltration of other societies, extending their incorporeal tentacles into the mind and heart of creatures they meet to walk among them and search for those of good heart to offer advice or warning about evils in their midst or coming soon. An yllosan may step into the body of a creature to help it achieve a goal or task it fears to attempt on its own. Yllosan are emissaries of hope and inspiration, but rarely stay too long in one place or within one body. They see themselves as advisors and helpers; it is not their place to do too much for those they meet, but to motivate them to rise up and face new challenges, daring to find the greatness within themselves. Yllosan rarely reveal their true form to other races, preferring to work through possessed proxies while remaining in the shadows themselves. Yllosan are 3 feet in length, though their dangling tendrils and the misty psychic shroud that surrounds them sometimes makes them appear larger. As creatures of pure thought, they are weightless and virtually impossible to detect while possessing another creature; however, they are visible to creatures able to see invisible when entering or departing a possessed target. Playful Spies. Yllosan have long cultivated a reputation among the enemies of the Accord as master spies and tireless investigators, and they enjoy the paranoia they engender in their foes. They are not above simply playing pranks on enemies while walking secretly among them, moving small objects around and using its suggestion and possession abilities to cause enemies to perform incriminating acts that cause their erstwhile allies to turn on them. Their presence is difficult to detect, as they can erase the memories of creatures they have inhabited upon departing their minds. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: aberration
- Alignment: chaotic good
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 7

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

