# Young Forest Drake

**description**: Forest drakes are feral and wingless cousins of green dragons, sharing their cruelty and cunning but none of their intelligence. Forest drakes sport large antler-like horns on their heads and fur running down their spines. As their name suggests, forest drakes prowl timberlands, thickets, and taigas. Cunning Predators. Forest drakes are carnivorous and usually prey on deer, pigs, and primates, but they prefer elves, halflings, and humans and will go out of their way to hunt and track them if they catch their scent. Forest drakes are known to mimic elk and moose, teasing hunters with glimpses of their antlers, drawing them closer to set them for an ambush. Hallucinogenic Breath. Forest drakes supplement their meat diet with wild, poisonous mushrooms. The ingested fungi's toxins do not harm the forest drakes. Instead, it alters their poisonous breath, making it more potent by having a hallucinogenic effect on any who unfortunately inhales the poison. Pack Hunters. Forest drakes typically form packs composed of one old male bull, several females, and a few young males. These dangerous packs will usually hunt deer herds and even attack small settlements at the edge of their territories. During the mating season, the old male drives out all the males from the pack to establish its harem. One or two bulls might challenge him for the harem, and these fights usually end with the challenger maimed or killed. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Charge. If the drake moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite or Ram attack, and one Claws attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Poison Breath (Recharge 6). The drake exhales poison in a 15-foot cube. Each creature in that area must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 14 (4d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature suffers the effect of the confusion spell without making a saving throw. The drake doesn't need to concentrate to maintain the effect. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 2

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

