# Young Mountain Drake

**description**: A mountain drake is a wingless drake with crag-like bony spikes jutting from the upper areas of its body, including the top of its skull. Its scaly hide ranges from red, brown, and maroon. It has a head shaped like a goat's, with a short draconic snout and curving ram-like horns extending from each side. Mountain drakes are sought by both cloud and fire giants who use them as guardians and pets. Mountain Denizen. It may appear slow at first, but the mountain drake is surprisingly surefooted when it scales the sides of rocky cliffs and steep, rocky slopes. It usually preys on mountain goats and other creatures living near mountain peaks. If food is scarce, it will not hesitate to venture to the lower areas to hunt for anything that it deems edible, including adventurers. Ambush Hunter. When hunting, it usually finds a suitable ambush perch such as a cliffside ledge from where it can leap and catch prey below it by surprise. It will usually open its attack by ramming its target first to knock it prone and possibly stun it before clamping its jaws on the victim's throat or back of its neck to deliver the killing blow. When it finds itself outnumbered or in a fight with its typical enemies such as perytons and wyverns, it resorts to its powerful breath weapon, a cloud of searing hot ash and sulfur that can leave creatures caught within it choking and unable to breathe. Switching Hierarchies. Mountain drakes establish dominance hierarchies at a young age. Males are usually dominant during the breeding season, but during the non-breeding season, the hierarchy is switched. At this time, adult females, who are typically larger than males, become dominant. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Charge. If the drake moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Ram attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 4 (1d8) damage and must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite or Ram attack, one Claws attack, and one Spiked Tail attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) fire damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage. Spiked Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Brimstone Breath (Recharge 6). The drake exhales ash, sulfur, and white-hot embers in a 15-foot cube originating from the drake. Each creature in that area must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 17 (5d6) fire damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature spends its action on each of its turns coughing and reeling. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to fire or poison automatically succeed on this saving throw. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

