# Young Wogren

**description**: Wogren Of course, one of the most important monstrosities to the halfling folk are the wogren, the creatures that have become the protectors and friends of the halfling people. While many thousands of them died in the Shadow’s initial onslaught against Erenland, the remaining wogren still do their utmost to protect and serve their diminutive friends. Wogren are intelligent creatures that resemble thick-bodied hunting dogs. They are almost exclusively found in the company of halflings. Monstrosities The folk legends of the people of Erenland are full of tales of evil crones stealing babies from their beds, horned devils flying out of the mountains in search of treasure, and bull-headed giant-men ruling the Asmadarin Plains. Some of the tales are true, some are exaggerated, and some are based on events long forgotten by history. Monstrous humanoid villains tend to be very personal demons in the stories, competing with mankind for treasure, food, or territory. Of course, there are many monstrosities living throughout the world of Aryth. Some are intelligent and even evil, while others are simply creatures with strange and potent magical powers. Monstrosities of Eredane Minotaurs do indeed exist on the Asmadarin Plains, but not in the numerous ranging hordes of halfling legend. Small bands of the creatures battle for food and territorial dominance with the Sarcosan descendants who live there. The Asmadarians might not have survived long had a minotaur lord not long ago recognized the benefits of having them on the island. The humans grow food and keep livestock, which the minotaurs can then take as their own at the cost of a few of their warriors being hunted down and slain. Gargoyles haunt the southern reaches of the Kaladrun Mountains, sweeping into the villages of the Central Plains in search of valuables and fresh meat. In the Arunath Mountains, a particularly evil brand of gargoyle terrorizes the Danisil elves. The Danisil believe, rightly, that these gargoyles have been tainted by the demonic influence of the ruins of Ibon-sul, making them even more malevolent than their eastern cousins. Their skin is still rocky, but it features sharp points and hooked structures from which they sometimes hang the flesh trophies they gather when they hunt. The Terrace of the Elders on the Island of Asmadar is home to a triumvirate of ancient magical beasts who fled the madness and chaos of the Sundering, taking up residence on the island and never looking back. They have remained uninvolved with the events that have shaped Eredane over the millennia and are largely ignorant of what is going on. They know that another war has started but are unaware that it has been over for nearly a century and that an elder god is siphoning off the world’s magic. These creatures—a lamasu, a dragonne, and a gynosphinx—remain untouched by the Shadow, and are perhaps the last pristine link to the bygone age. Unfortunately for the heroes of modern Aryth, they do not seem to be interested in joining the fight against Izrador’s hordes. Deep in the White Desert there lies an oasis that formed inside a dome-shaped rock that rises some 100 feet out of the sand. The rock has a cleft at its apex, allowing the cool desert night winds to consolidate moisture inside the dome, dripping it down into a deep blue pool. The area is rumored to be a power nexus of some strength, but the dome is inhabited by an unearthly manticore whose size dwarfs the largest of the dire creatures of Erethor. It is not known how this beast came to be, or how it sustains itself in the harsh desert environment, but part of its success must be due to the oasis dome that it guards. The northern elves have recently run across a mixed pack of worgs and winter wolves in the mountains between Nalford and Steel Hill. They have not communicated with the animals, but neither have the usually evil creatures attacked lone elves who would have been obvious and easy prey. Current conjecture is that these canines escaped a Shadow breeding pit, but not before they were somehow changed. The mystery of the ghost pack, as they are called, has been relegated to an item of little interest in light of the Shadow’s renewed push into the Veradeen’s borders. Traits Keen Hearing and Smell. The wogren has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Pack Tactics. The wogren has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the wogren’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated. Spirit Sense. The wogren automatically detects the presence of any invisible creatures, celestials, fiends, or undead within 120 feet, and automatically knows their alignment and current intentions toward the wogren and its allies. Actions Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1 (1d4-1) piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Small
- Type: monstrosity
- Alignment: neutral good
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 1/8

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

