# Young Magnetite Dragon

**description**: Magnetite Dragons Matter-of-fact and down-to-earth, magnetite dragons are distant relatives of the metallic dragons, though they lack the ability to shapechange. A magnetite dragon has a bestial slant to its appearance; its short maw, narrow eyes, and stocky hind legs give it the proud and powerful cast of a rearing bull. Two wide horns—the source of its magnetic control—sweep forwards from its brow, often sporting an array of ferrous paraphernalia. Wyrmlings’ scales are a dull grey, but quickly take on an iridescent red-blue sheen as they age and are exposed to sources of magic. Of particular note are its hexofuga: the blocky shards that protrude from its back. These arcano-magnetic organs are the source of its ability to fly, its true wings being small, vestigial structures with little musculature. Treasure & Power. Made of a keratin-magnetite composite, a magnetite wyrmling’s back scales can only develop into hexofuga upon prolonged exposure to arcane fields. In fact, a magnetite dragon’s growth and power is intrinsically linked to the duration and magnitude to which it has been exposed to magic. Though a magnetite wyrmling is among the weakest of all dragon wyrmlings, a fully grown individual can rival even a black dragon in power. For this reason, a magnetite dragon has no care for gold and gems; it covets only magical items and sources of arcane power: the stronger the better. Neutral Motives. Magnetite dragons are incensed by the proliferation of order or chaos, and feel a compulsion to maintain the natural, chaotic order of the world. Persuading such a dragon to fight for good or evil is a futile affair, but the mere mention of the Plane of Fey’s uncontrolled chaos, or the clockwork nirvana’s orderly machinations, is enough to motivate evenly the most slovenly individual. Magical Magnetite. It is an established arcano-magical fact that magnetite’s properties change on exposure to strong magical fields. The usually brittle substance hardens and exhibits much stronger magnetic fields. However, the material’s superconducting properties are nullified on exposure to heat. For these reasons, a magnetite dragon typically makes its home in subzero conditions and near strong sources of magic. A Magnetite Dragon’s Lair Magnetite dragons make their homes in rocky, iron-rich terrain suffused with ambient magic. An abandoned arcane laboratory in a haematite-filled cavern is a lair all magnetite dragons dream of. Regional Effects The region containing a legendary magnetite dragon’s lair is warped by the dragon’s magic, which creates one or more of the following effects: Shards of dark-grey crystal thrust up out of the ground, rippling with rainbow shimmers. Insects’ carapaces are oddly angular, and those that fly do so noiselessly, on stationary, outstretched wings. Horns and antlers of local fauna appear warped to create sharp right-angles, almost forming squares atop their heads. Lair Actions So long as the dragon is alive and within its lair, it can evoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. The DCs and damage of the lair actions and environmental hazards depend on the age of the dragon the party encounters. Age-Based Saving Throw DC and Damage Dragon VDC Vdam Young 12 3 (1d6) Adult 15 10 (3d6) Ancient 17 21 (6d6) Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the dragon takes one of the following lair actions; the dragon can’t take the same lair action two rounds in a row. See the table above for the damage and save DC. Magnetic Waves. The lair’s magnetised rock emits a pulse affecting all ferrous metals within the lair. Each creature holding a ferrous weapon or wearing ferrous armour must make a VDC Strength saving throw. On a failure, a creature holding a ferrous weapon is disarmed of its weapon, which flies 10 feet in a random direction, and a creature wearing ferrous armour is knocked prone. Roll a d8 and consult the Random Directions table to determine the direction. Arcanomagnetic Interference. The lair becomes ensconced in an antimagic field until initiative count 20 of the next round. Each spellcaster in the lair immediately makes a DC 10 Perception check using its spellcasting ability. On a success, it detects the absence of magic in the lair. Magnetite Shards. Razor-sharp shards erupt from the ground in a 20-foot radius centred on a point within the lair. Each creature in the area must succeed on a VDC Dexterity saving throw or take Vdam piercing damage. Until initiative count 20 of the next round, the area is subject to nonmagical effects identical to the spike growth spell. Random Directions d8 Direction d8 Direction 1 North 5 South 2 North-east 6 South-west 3 East 7 West 4 South-east 8 North-west 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: neutral
- Expansion: 23695
- Challenge Rating: 5

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

