# Young Zaratan

**description**: Zaratans are born from earthquakes and are about the size of a small hill when young. These dim-witted elementals only concern themselves with food, moving slowly across the terrain in search of the best territory. They are, however, very territorial and when provoked, can create small earthquakes and spew various debris from their maws. Elder Elementals When pure elemental energies converge, a new elemental is created. This occasion, however, is extremely rare and only happen during catastrophic events that involve the elements. There are some situations, like that of the phoenix, where an elemental is reborn into a new body when its current one is weakened. Many theories other than the ones above persists, yet we will never know how these mysterious and powerful elementals came to be. One thing is for sure, young versions of elder elementals are more likelier to be encountered in their home planes. Traits Magic Weapons. The zaratan's weapon attacks are magical. Siege Monster. The zaratan deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack. The zaratan makes one Bite attack and one Stomp attack. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7) piercing damage. Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Spit Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 120 ft./240 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (4d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. Spew Debris (Recharge 5–6). The zaratan exhales rocky debris in a 60-foot cube. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 22 (4d10) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails the save by 5 or more is knocked prone. Bonus Actions Ground-Shaking Movement. After moving at least 10 feet on the ground, the zaratan can send a shock wave through the ground in a 60-foot-radius circle centered on its space. That area becomes difficult terrain for 1 minute. Each creature on the ground within the area that is concentrating must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or the creature's concentration is broken. Legendary Actions The zaratan can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The zaratan regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Stomp. The zaratan makes one Stomp attack. Move. The zaratan moves up to its speed. Spit (Costs 2 Actions). The zaratan uses Spit Rock. Retract (Costs 2 Actions). The zaratan retracts into its shell. Until it takes its Emerge action, it has resistance to all damage, and it is restrained. The next time it takes a legendary action, it must take its Revitalize or Emerge action. Revitalize (Costs 2 Actions). The zaratan can use this option only if it is retracted in its shell. It regains 32 (5d12) hit points. The next time it takes a legendary action, it must take its Emerge action. Emerge (Costs 2 Actions). The zaratan emerges from its shell and uses Spit Rock. It can use this option only if it is retracted in its shell.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Elemental
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

