# Young Phoenix

**description**: When a phoenix dies, or when it sees its powers dim, it can choose to die and be reborn anew. The young phoenix partially retains the wisdom of its former self, and gains a hot-headed temperament, eager to try its new-born powers in the world. Elder Elementals When pure elemental energies converge, a new elemental is created. This occasion, however, is extremely rare and only happen during catastrophic events that involve the elements. There are some situations, like that of the phoenix, where an elemental is reborn into a new body when its current one is weakened. Many theories other than the ones above persists, yet we will never know how these mysterious and powerful elementals came to be. One thing is for sure, young versions of elder elementals are more likelier to be encountered in their home planes. Traits Fiery Death and Rebirth. When the phoenix dies, it explodes. Each creature within 40 feet of it must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (3d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire ignites flammable objects in the area that aren't worn or carried. The explosion destroys the phoenix's body and leaves behind an egg-shaped cinder that weighs 5 pounds. The cinder is blazing hot, dealing 21 (6d6) fire damage to any creature that touches it, though no more than once per round. The cinder is immune to all damage, and after 1d6 days, it hatches a new phoenix. Fire Form. The phoenix can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. Any creature that touches the phoenix or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 4 (1d8) fire damage. In addition, the phoenix can enter a hostile creature's space and stop there. The first time it enters a creature's space on a turn, that creature takes 4 (1d8) fire damage. With a touch, the phoenix can also ignite flammable objects that aren't worn or carried (no action required). Flyby. The phoenix doesn't provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach. Illumination. The phoenix sheds bright light in a 40-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. Siege Monster. The phoenix deals double damage to objects and structures. Actions Multiattack. The phoenix makes one Beak attack and one Fiery Talons attack. Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) fire damage. If the target is a creature or a flammable object, it ignites. Until a creature takes an action to douse the fire, the target takes 4 (1d8) fire damage at the start of each of its turns. Fiery Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) fire damage. Legendary Actions The phoenix can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The phoenix regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Peck. The phoenix makes one Beak attack. Move. The phoenix moves up to its speed. Swoop (Costs 2 Actions). The phoenix moves up to its speed and attacks with its Fiery Talons.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Elemental
- Alignment: Typically Neutral
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 10

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

