# Young Deep Drake

**description**: The deep drake is a formidable creature that dwells in the Elemental Plane of Earth but can also be found in the Material Plane. It lives entirely underground and shuns the touch of sunlight. Although not completely blind, it relies heavily on echolocation to navigate its dark and labyrinthine habitat and to hunt its unsuspecting prey. Stone Camouflage. The deep drake possesses scales or scutes akin to a crocodile's but resembling a stone-like texture, allowing it to seamlessly blend into its natural surroundings. Further aiding in its camouflage are its ability to climb surfaces effortlessly and the bony stalactite-like ridges adorning its spine, enhancing its ability to remain hidden within the shadowed recesses of cavern ceilings. Sonic Blaster. The deep drake stalks the winding caverns and underground tunnels, searching for a spot to hide, typically in the ceiling above a busy underground trail or passage. There, the deep drake patiently awaits for prey to venture close. Once the opportunity arises, With acute precision, it emits a powerful sonar blast. The forceful shockwave generated by the blast creates a sudden, intense compression, leading to destructive consequences to a creature upon impact. The sonic burst can rupture a creature's delicate tissues, such as eardrums, damage internal organs and blood vessels, shatter bones, and cause concussion. Creatures who survive the attack are often left reeling and vulnerable to the deep drake's death blow, which is a swift and powerful bite at the prey's neck or spine. Salt Geophagy. The deep drake's diet consists of normal and giant-sized bats, insects, reptiles, worms, and other manner of vermin but will include larger dangerous prey such as grimlocks and other humanoids if food is scarce. It supplements its carnivorous diet with salt deposits and crystals, biting and licking these salt formations that are abundant in cave systems that have or are near saline springs and pools. These minerals help it develop its tough, stone-like hide. Kobold Mounts. A deep drake is often encountered singly or as a mated pair, but a few run in packs, with several young ones led by an adult alpha. Kobolds are known to capture young deep drakes and train them as mounts and guards. Drakes Drakes are the lesser, wingless kin of dragons. Unlike their majestique cousins, drakes are generally smaller, feral in nature, and have shorter life spans. They display a range of physical characteristics, with most bearing some resemblance to their chromatic counterparts while others boasting unique features. They are categorized into three age groups: young drakes, comparable in size to mules; adult drakes, akin to full-sized crocodiles in scale; and ancient drakes, capable of growing to mammoth-like proportions. Drakes are commonly encountered in packs, typically consisting of a majority of young ones led by one adult alpha or two mated adults. While not as awe-inspiring as dragons, drakes should not be underestimated, as their cunning and lethal set of abilities can still make them formidable adversaries. Thus, they are often sought after by giants and humanoids, who recognize their value and train them as guards or mounts. Traits Echolocation. The drake can’t use its blindsight while deafened. Spider Climb. The drake can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Stone Camouflage. The drake has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. Actions Multiattack. The drake makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) thunder damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) slashing damage. Sonic Breath (Recharge 6). The drake emits a sonic shockwave in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (4d8) thunder damage, is deafened for 1 minute, and is stunned until the end of the drake's next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened or stunned.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Unaligned
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 3

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

