# Yserthrax

**description**: Traits Amphibious. Yserthrax can breathe air and water. Corruption. Poison damage dealt by Yserthrax ignores damage resistance and treats damage immunity as damage resistance. Whenever Yserthrax deals poison damage to a creature who isn’t a Construct or an Undead, that creature must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be corrupted (save ends at end of turn). The corruption lasts until cured by a cure ailment power, lesser restoration spell, or similar supernatural effect. While corrupted, a creature takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage at the start of each of their turns as their mind and body are ravaged by reality-warping anomalies. If a creature dies while corrupted, their body melts into a gruesome puddle, becoming a gibbering mouther under Yserthrax’s control. Withering Resistance ( 3 /Day). When Yserthrax fails a saving throw, she can take 16 (3d10) necrotic damage and succeed instead. Actions Multiattack. Yserthrax makes one Bite attack and two Claw attacks. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (2d10 + 9) piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) poison damage. Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) slashing damage, and Yserthrax can move the target up to 15 feet horizontally. Corrupting Breath (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Yserthrax exhales poison in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 56 (16d6) poison damage and is poisoned until the end of their next turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn’t poisoned. Bonus Actions Ulcerate. Yserthrax magically aggravates a creature she can see within 60 feet of her who is corrupted by her Corruption trait. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be dazed until the end of their next turn. Reactions Eldritch Disruption. When a creature Yserthrax can see within 60 feet of her hits her with an attack or succeeds on a saving throw, Yserthrax conjures a reality-warping anomaly around them. The creature must choose to either take 10 (3d6) psychic damage or to reroll the attack or saving throw and use the new result. Villain Actions Yserthrax has three villain actions. She can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. She can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Summon Monoliths. Yserthrax conjures three monoliths of otherworldly green crystal, which grow out of the ground centered on three points she can see within 500 feet of her. Each monolith is a 10-foot-radius, 60-foot-high cylinder with AC 19, 100 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. The monoliths don’t block Yserthrax’s vision. Each creature within 10 feet of a monolith other than Yserthrax is vulnerable to psychic damage. When a monolith is destroyed, each creature within 30 feet of it must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Action 2 : Spatial Alteration. Yserthrax bats her wings erratically, releasing foul energy that warps space around her. Each creature within 60 feet of her must succeed on a DC 19 Charisma saving throw or be teleported up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space Yserthrax can see. Action 3 : Elder Scream. Yserthrax unleashes an eldritch scream, piercing the mind of each enemy she can see within 120 feet of her. Each target must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw, taking 77 (14d10) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: Dragon
- Alignment: Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 22

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

