# Yuan-ti Anathema Ascendant

**description**: The most powerful of its twisted kind, the ascendant is a rare anathema that has gained vast amounts of power through sacrifices, rituals, and combat – power it believes is enough for it to be a demigod. While most anathema live outside yuan-ti colonies and are only sought out by fanatical worshipers, ascendants are welcomed in fear and reverence as a leader and as a deity. These devious beings are still on the path to godhood, and will not hesitate to use its worshipers as fodder in battle or as sacrifices in its rituals. Traits Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the anathema fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Magic Resistance. The anathema has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Ophidiophobia Aura. Any creature of the anathema's choice, other than a snake or a yuan-ti, that starts its turn within 30 feet of the anathema and can see or hear it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of snakes and yuan-ti. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this aura for the next 24 hours. Six Heads. The anathema has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. Actions Multiattack (Anathema Form Only). The anathema makes two Claw attacks and one Flurry of Bites attack. It can use Constrict in place of Flurry of Bites. Claw (Anathema Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slashing damage. Flurry of Bites (Anathema Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature. Hit: 28 (6d6 + 7) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage. Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one Large or smaller creature. Hit: 17 (3d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) acid damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and takes 17 (3d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns, and the anathema can't constrict another target. Spellcasting (Anathema Form Only). The anathema casts one of the following spells, requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): At will: animal friendship (snakes only) 3/day each: darkness, entangle, fear, haste, polymorph, suggestion 1/day: Abi-Dalzim's horrid wilting, unholy aura (see Appendix C. New Spells) Bonus Actions Battle Command. The anathema targets one ally it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see or hear the anathema, the target can use its reaction to make one melee attack or to take the Dodge or Hide action. Change Shape. The anathema transforms into a Huge constrictor snake or back into its true form. Its statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. Legendary Actions The anathema can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The anathema regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Claw. The anathema makes a Claw attack. Constrict (Costs 2 Actions). The anathema makes a Constrict attack. Cast a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The anathema uses Spellcasting.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Monstrosity
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 23212
- Challenge Rating: 19

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Monster Manual Expanded II

