# Zamyra

**description**: While there are multiple iconic dragons, Zamyra is a titan in dragon lore. According to legend, a powerful human wizard named Loksly created Zamyra from the severed head of the malevolent Dragon Queen, infusing her with the same greed that had driven Loksly for generations. It is said that on the twelfth night of Loksly’s ritual, Zamyra crawled from the decaying head of her “mother,” small and hungry but destined to become one of the powerful dragons in existence. Appearance. Zamyra’s shimmering scales catch the eye whenever she moves. In full daylight, she becomes a kaleidoscope of color, but when she uses her breath weapon her scales briefly take on the color of the dragon associated with that breath. She can also change the color of her scales voluntarily, allowing her to blend into her surroundings. Sustenance. Zamyra is not sustained by flesh, blood, and bone as is a typical dragon. As a hatchling, she grew weak when offered horse flesh and slaughtered lambs. It was not until a coin fell from Loksly’s pocket that Zamyra first found nourishment. As Zamyra grew, Loksly fed the dragon a fortune’s-worth of coins and gems, anything that would satisfy her ever-increasing hunger. Zamyra’s instinct to hoard treasure also serves her gluttony. Adoration. Zamyra’s might was apparent while she was still a wyrmling, and Loksly’s followers considered Zamyra a gift. As Loksly aged, Zamyra’s power grew, and his followers began to care for their precious dragon goddess. The Votary formed around their devotion to Zamyra, with no less than a score of dedicated servants attending her at all times, cleaning her lair, tending to her whims, and organizing her hoard. Deliverance. Unlike many dragon lairs, Zamyra’s lair is meticulous. Columns of coins held in place by magic reflect torchlight throughout the cavern, creating the illusion of fire around every corner. The chamber’s floor is a sheet of solid glass, beneath which rest the polished bones of hundreds of dragons: a silent reminder of who defeated the wyrms and what became of their hoards. In the depths of the lair lies Loksly’s tomb, a platinum-paneled alcove lovingly maintained by both his dragon daughter and his former acolytes. Windows. Shortly after Loksly’s death, the Votary crafted magical mirrors to link Zamyra’s lair with companion mirrors across the planes. Zamyra can transform into human form and step through these mirrors, visiting locations distant in both space and time. The Votary carries mirrors with them as they travel, always eager for new destinations for their dragon mother to visit. Zamyra uses the mirrors primarily to infiltrate the lairs of rival dragons and claim their hoards. The mirrors vary in size from compact mirrors that can be slipped into a pocket to full-length mirrors that require several humans to carry. The antechamber of Zamyra’s lair is decorated with dozens of such mirrors, each a window and a portal to some far-flung location. TRAITS Amphibious: Zamyra can breathe air and water. Camouflage: Zamyra can use a bonus action on each of her turns to change the color of her scales. Assuming she now mimics her background, she has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide. Innate Spellcasting: Zamyra’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 21). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components: 1/day each: counterspell, disintegrate, incendiary cloud, see invisibility, tongues Kaleidoscopic Scales: Zamyra’s scales are an ever-shifting pattern of chromatic colors. As a bonus action, she can change the predominant color of her scales. This color determines the nature of her Breath Weapon as well as the type of the extra damage she deals with her bite attack. Her scales also grant her immunity to a damage type as outlined below: Black: acid Blue: lightning Green: poison Red: fire White: cold Legendary Resistance (4/Day): If Zamyra fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. ACTIONS Multiattack: Zamyra can use her Frightful Presence. She then makes three attacks: one with her bite, and two with her claws. She can replace a claw attack with a tail attack. Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (2d12 + 8) piercing damage plus 17 (5d6) damage determined by her Kaleidoscopic Scales. Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, range 10 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + 8) slashing damage. Tail: Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 + ٨) bludgeoning damage and the target must make a DC 24 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Frightful Presence: Each creature of Zamyra’s choice that is within 120 feet of her and aware of her must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Zamyra’s Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. Breath Weapons (Recharge 5-6): Zamyra uses one of the following breath weapons: Elemental Breath: Zamyra exhales the breath weapon of her current scale color. Each creature in a 90-foot cone must make a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw, taking 91 (26d6) damage of a type determined by her Kaleidoscopic Scales on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Sleep Breath (1/Day): Zamyra exhales sleep gas in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or fall unconscious for 1 hour. An unconscious creature wakes up if it takes damage or another creature uses an action to wake it. Wave Breath (1/Day): Z amyra exhales a water wave in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in the area takes 25 (10d4) bludgeoning damage and must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or be pushed 20 feet and have their lungs filled with water. A non-water-breathing creature that has water in its lungs cannot speak and survives only for a number of rounds equal to its Constitution modifier (minimum 1 round). At the beginning of its turn the round after, it drops to 0 hit points and is dying. A creature that is conscious with water in its lungs can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with a success. Change Shape: Zamyra magically polymorphs into a humanoid or beast of CR or lower, or back into her true form. She reverts to her true form if she dies. Any equipment Zamyra is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by her new form (Zamyra’s choice). In her new form, Zamyra retains her alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, legendary and lair actions, her Legendary Resistance trait, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this action. Her statistics and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of her new form, except any class features or legendary actions of that form. REACTIONS Reactive Scales: Whenever Zamyra would take acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison damage, she can use Kaleidoscopic Scales as a reaction to change her scale color and gain immunity to the triggering damage. LEGENDARY ACTIONS Zamyra can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Zamyra regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Attack: Zamyra makes a claw or tail attack. Teleport: Zamyra magically teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space she can see. Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions): Zamyra beats her wings. Each creature within 30 feet of her must succeed on a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw or take 21 (2d12 + 8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Zamyra can then fly up to half her flying speed. Ingest Gold (Costs 3 Actions): If Zamyra is within 10 feet of a pile of gold coins worth at least 1,000 gp, she can swallow the coins, regaining 42 (4d20) hit points. LAIR ACTIONS When in her lair, Zamyra can invoke the ambient magic to take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), she can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects: Cultists Attack: Zamyra commands her cultists to attack. Each swarm of Votary cultists she can see within 120 feet of her can use its reaction to make a scimitars attack. Coin Pillar: Zamyra dispels the wall of force surrounding one coin pillar she can see within 60 feet of her. The pillar collapses, creating a 15-foot-radius area of difficult terrain. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. Necrotic Skull: The lingering spirit of one of Zamyra’s victims attempts to drain the life force from a living creature. One creature within 30 feet of a dragon skull must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 42 (12d6) necrotic damage and is stunned until the end of its next turn. On a success, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t stunned. 

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon
- Alignment: chaotic evil
- Expansion: 20254
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Goodman Games

**book**: The Prism of Redemption (FEF 24)

