# Zardrix, the Wrath of Shadow

**description**: Zardrix is a dragon and older almost than her own memory. She was birthed in the Time of Years and was an ally of the elthedar. She was a devoted friend of Xircxi and with him bore many eggs. When the Sundering fractured the draconic peoples, she sided with Xircxi and fought at his side. For thousands of years, she was a champion of draconic honor and even advocated alliance with the children of their elthedar friends, the younger fey. She and her cohort were unable to mediate peace among dragonkind, so they retreated to unknown lands far to the south of the Kasmael Sea. They found solace in the old ways and hoped that in time the animosity of their northern kin would wane. The rise of the dread power of the Shadow only aggravated this anger and hatred, however, and when their kin allied with Izrador, Zardrix convinced her compatriots that even the dragons were not safe from such a threat. Rising from their hidden sanctuary, she led them north to meet the Shadow’s dragon horde over the plains of the Northern Marches in the catastrophic battle that ended the Second Age. Legends claim the ground shook in Sharuun, and the dragon fires that lit the sky could be seen from Caradul. In truth, the battle released destructive forces not seen since the fall of Izrador and the Sundering. The battle was terrible, turned day into night, and left death and abject devastation across the frontier. In the fight, Zardrix was mortally wounded and crashed to the ground in a broken and bloody heap. She lay dying for days, unable to summon aid from her surviving kin or even lift her head. As the last of her life drained from her body, a legate of Izrador appeared on a black horse and offered to end her suffering in exchange for a strange boon. Delirious, she agreed, and with a huge axe, the legate hacked open the dragon’s chest and removed her beating heart. She died then and slipped into a thousand-year oblivion: a darkness from which she would eventually wake into a treacherous nightmare. The legate brought the dragon’s heart before Izrador, who ensorcelled it and secreted it away against his future need. When Izrador again rose to power, he used the magical heart to resurrect Zardrix and transformed her into the fourth of his dreaded Night Kings. Through the heart, the Shadow controlled the dragon’s will and bestowed upon her powers greater than any dragon had ever possessed. Izrador made Zardrix his avatar of destruction, a singular force of reckoning never before known in the mortal realm. Zardrix is the absolute servant of the fallen god. Her will is not her own, and only anguished fragments of her original memories remain, trapped in the recesses of her mind. She now spends much of her time patrolling the blasted plains around Theros Obsidia, protecting the holy bastion of her god. She dwells within a massive lair deep under the structure and often perches on the tower’s peak. Izrador orders her on frequent missions to support his armies’ assaults, and she is often commanded to burn great swaths of the elven forest. The Shadow also uses her terrible grandeur as a weapon of fear, cowing his enemies and allies alike, ever reminding them of his irresistible power. When she is required to move among lesser peoples, she disgustedly takes the form of an armored draconic humanoid. Zardrix is at once the most formidable of the Shadow’s Night Kings and the most pitiable. Her lost honor and nobility make her corruption all the more tragic. Traits Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Zardrix fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. Shadow’s Wrath. Any flammable materials that come within 10 feet of Zardrix ignite in flame. Any creature who starts their turn within 10 feet of Zardrix takes 7 (2d6) fire damage. Actions Multiattack. Zardrix can use her Frightful Presence. She then makes three attacks, one with her bite and two with her claws. Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 23 (2d12+10) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage. Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d6+10) slashing damage. Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d8+10) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 24 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 20 feet away from Zardrix and knocked prone. Frightful Presence. Each creature of Zardrix’s choice that is within 120 feet of Zardrix and aware of her must make a DC 26 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Zardrix’s Frightful Presence for one hour. Fire Breath (Recharge 5-6). Zardrix exhales fire in a 90-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw, taking 105 (30d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. Change Shape. Zardrix magically polymorphs into a humanoid or beast that has a challenge rating no higher than her own, or back into her true form. She reverts to her true form if she dies. Any equipment she is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (Zardrix’s choice). In a new form, Zardrix retains her alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, Legendary Resistance, lair actions, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this action. Her statistics and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of the new form, except any class features or legendary actions of that form. Legendary Actions Zardrix can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options listed here. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Zardrix regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn. Detect. Zardrix makes a Wisdom (Perception) check. Tail Attack. Zardrix makes a tail attack. Wing Attack (Costs 2 actions). Zardrix beats her wings. Each creature within 15 feet of Zardrix must succeed on a DC 24 Dexterity saving throw or take 17 (2d6+10) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. Zardrix can then fly up to half her flying speed. Lair Actions Zardrix’s lair is a massive cave deep beneath Theros Obsidia. The entrance to the cavern is a yawning mouth at the base of a hill near the central tower, and the cave reaches deep into the bedrock until it reaches a series of interlinked natural domes. The air here is hot and foul, and fire and sulphureous smoke erupt from many vents along the ground. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Zardrix takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; Zardrix can’t take the same lair action twice in a row. A cloud of cinders and smoke erupt in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point Zardrix can see within 120 feet of her. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is lightly obscured. It lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. Each creature that starts its turn in the cloud must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or suffer 7 (2d6) fire damage and be poisoned until the end of its turn. Rocks fall from the ceiling, striking up to three creatures underneath that Zardrix can see within 120 feet of her. Zardrix makes one ranged attack roll (+7 to hit) against each target. On a hit, the target takes 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage. A wall of fire springs into existence on a solid surface within 120 feet of Zardrix. The wall is 60 feet long, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The wall is opaque and lasts for one minute, until Zardrix uses this lair action again, or until Zardrix dies. When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 22 (5d8) fire damage, or half as much damage on a successful save. Whenever a creature ends its turn within 10 feet of the wall, it takes 22 (5d8) fire damage. A creature takes the same damage when it enters the wall for the first time or ends its turn there.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Gargantuan
- Type: dragon (night king)
- Alignment: neutral evil
- Expansion: 30504
- Challenge Rating: 26

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

