# Zburator Monarch

**description**: The zburător is a malevolent shapeshifting monster, shrouded in darkness and dread. Its natural form is a nightmarish hybrid. With the head and limbs of a feral wolf, the antlers, neck, and body of a hideous deer, and the fearsome wings of an enormous bat, it strikes a horrifying and intimidating silhouette. Vampiric Predator. The zburător is driven by an insatiable hunger for the flesh and the life force of humanoids. Possessing heightened senses, night vision, and enhanced strength, it prowls the shadowy edges of civilization with predatory grace, tracking its victims with unerring precision. Its senses allow it to detect the slightest movements, ensuring a swift and stealthy approach. The points of its antlers drip potent venom that can paralyze creatures it injures. Feeding on the flesh and life force of its victims, the zburător revels in the consumption of their essence, gaining vitality from their very being. Alluring Charmer. Once every full moon, adult zburătors have an irresistible impulse to mate. Because of its accursed nature, it cannot bear offspring with another of its kind. Instead, it must seek a humanoid as a potential mate. And even then, the chances of conception is remote, which is probably the reason for the uncontrollable urge. Aiding it in this endeavor are the zburător's two uncanny abilities. The first one is to assume the form of any humanoid form, seamlessly blending into unsuspecting communities. In its humanoid disguise, it conceals its monstrous nature beneath an alluring facade, its appearance and demeanor tailored to enchant and beguile. The second one is its an unsettling ability to magically charm and seduce humanoids. Its enchanting allure, combined with its dark magic, ensures the compliance of its chosen targets. With a glance or a touch, the zburător weaves its enchantments, leaving its victims entranced and submissive. Natural Killer. A zburător offspring grows as a normal humanoid, but already bears the taint of its parent. Even as a child, its troubling behaviors will show lack of empathy or remorse, a tendency to manipulate and deceive others, and disturbing cruelty. As it gets older, it will entertain thoughts of eating the flesh of its kind. Once it has reached puberty, the zburător will be able to transform into its true form, finally realizing and embracing its nature. Because of this, it will be unable to have a communal life due to the risk of discovery. It will adopt one where it will lurk within the shadows and corners of the world, but still within reach of unsuspecting prey. Insidious Wanderers. Zburators are usually encountered alone, but a few form a clan led by an alpha, often under the guise of a traveling or wandering band of entertainers. Once every decade, these clans will congregate, bringing charmed victims as an offering to their King or Queen. A Zburãtor Monarch's Lair A zburător monarch dwells in keeps and longhouses that are located in remote and secluded areas. The challenge rating of a zburător monarch increases to 10 (5,900 XP) when it’s encountered in its lair. Lair Actions On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the zburător takes a lair action to cause one of the following effects; the zburător can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: Shadowy tendrils instantly appear and extend from the zburător. Each creature of the zburător's choice within 20 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and is blinded until initiative count 20 on the next round. The zburător targets a point it can see within 120 feet of it. A thick shadowy mist magically appears in a 20-foot radius burst centered on that point. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 9 (2d8) necrotic damage and has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until until initiative count 20 on the next round. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage with no additional effects. Constructs and Undead ignore this effect. The zburător casts invisibility , requiring no material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability. It lasts until initiative count 20 on the next round. Traits Dive Attack. If the zburător is flying and dives at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a Gore attack, the attack deals an extra 9 (2d8) damage to the target. Keen Hearing and Smell. The zburător has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the zburător fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. Actions Bite (Monster Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the zburător regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. Gore (Monster Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature is paralyzed. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Scimitar (Humanoid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage. Charm (Humanoid Form Only). One Humanoid the zburător can see within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be magically charmed for 1 hour. The charmed target obeys the zburător's verbal or telepathic commands. If the target suffers any harm or receives a suicidal command, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. If the target successfully saves against the effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune to this zburător's Charm for the next 24 hours. The zburător can have only one target charmed at a time. If it charms another, the effect on the previous target ends. Haunting Howl (Monster Form Only, Recharge 6). The zburător howls. Any Beast or Humanoid that isn't an ally of the zburător within 300 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of it for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s save is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to any zburător’s Haunting Howl for the next 24 hours. In addition, each ally of the zburător within 60 feet of it and can hear it gains advantage on attack rolls and saving throws made against being charmed and frightened until the end of the zburător's next turn. Bonus Actions Change Shape. The zburător magically transforms into a Medium Humanoid or back into its true form, while retaining its game statistics. This transformation ends if the zburător is reduced to 0 hit points or uses a bonus action to end it. Legendary Actions The zburător can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The zburător regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Charge. The zburător moves up to its speed. Charm. The zburător uses Charm. Command Thrall. The zburător targets a Humanoid charmed by it within 30 feet of it. The target must use its reaction to make one melee attack against a visible creature of the zburător's choice. Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The zburător makes a melee attack.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Large
- Type: Monstrosity (Shapechanger)
- Alignment: Typically Neutral Evil
- Expansion: 29032
- Challenge Rating: 9

**publisher**: Dragonix Books

**book**: Dragonix's Deadly Denizens

