# Zenith Aastrika

**description**: I didn’t find enlightenment atop some peaceful mountain high in the clouds or while sitting with my eyes closed in a serene field of high grass. I earned it in the hottest fires the earth produces. Would you like to feel that enlightenment for yourself? Zenith Aastrika Traits Battle Tranquility ( 3 /Day). When Aastrika fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead. When she does so, she can’t use Sweltering Heat until the end of her next turn. Molten Flesh. The first time a creature other than a fire giant touches Aastrika or hits her with a melee attack on a turn, that creature takes 7 (2d6) fire damage. Actions Multiattack. Aastrika takes the Disengage action and makes up to three attacks using Unarmed Strike, Hurl Flame, or both. Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage. If the target is a creature, they are outlined in red light until the start of Aastrika’s next turn, and for the duration, attack rolls against them have advantage. Hurl Flame. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 180 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) fire damage. Lava Pillar (Recharge 5 – 6 ). Aastrika causes a 20-foot-radius, 60-foot-high cylinder of lava to erupt from the ground at a point she can see within 120 feet of her. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 38 (11d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Bonus Actions Sweltering Heat. Aastrika’s inner flame pulses harshly. Each creature within 20 feet of her who doesn’t have resistance or immunity to fire damage must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or gain a level of exhaustion. Reactions Power of Flame. When another fire giant Aastrika can see within 60 feet of her misses with a weapon attack, Aastrika causes flame to trail from the attacker. The attacker rolls damage for the attack as if they had hit, and the target takes half that amount as fire damage instead of taking the full amount of normal damage. Villain Actions Aastrika has three villain actions. She can take each action once during an encounter after an enemy’s turn. She can take these actions in any order but can use only one per round. Action 1 : Forward! Aastrika and up to three creatures she can see can move up to their speed without provoking opportunity attacks and make one melee attack each. Action 2 : The Manifold Self. Aastrika disappears in a flash of light and teleports, reappearing in an unoccupied space she can see within 30 feet of her. At the same time, five fire giant troopers appear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of the space she teleported from. The troopers act immediately after this villain action is taken and on the same initiative count in subsequent rounds. Action 3 : This. Ends. Now. Aastrika and each willing fire giant within 60 feet of her unleashes a burst of heat. Each creature within 10 feet of Aastrika or one of these fire giants must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 55 (10d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: Giant
- Alignment: Lawful Neutral
- Expansion: 28288
- Challenge Rating: 12

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Where Evil Lives

