# Zennoga

**description**: Zennoga are autonomous and powerful constructs, standing 21 feet tall and weighing 15,000 pounds. Despite their independent natures, they all have a uniform appearance, with red covering much of the body, dark gray prominently featured on the chest, and two shades of gray coloring the many protrusions jutting from its humanoid chassis. While their faces feature eyes, they have an array of sensors that allow them to visualize foes in many different spectra. Servants of the Obelisk. Zennoga all owe fealty to a golden obelisk buried deep within their home world. This obelisk is a deity-like being that seeks energy and raw materials for an end goal not even known to its zennoga minions. Scholars who have studied the zennoga and the golden obelisk believe the unique entity seeks to replicate itself and, along with its partner, transform the universe into a cold, mechanistic utopia. The obelisk arrived from beyond the known universe, either from a demiplane creche or an alternate Prime Material plane and selected an unpopulated planet with the greatest natural resources, including an exotic form of radiation found at the world’s core. It gained a taste for magic and advanced technology when a spacefaring race attempted to settle the planet. The first zennoga created by the obelisk wiped out the settlers and retrieved their raw materials and machines for the obelisk. This first contact, while unfortunate for the settlers, proved beneficial for the obelisk, which could then create new minions capable of spaceflight. Zennoga prowled the nearby planets and neighboring star system to wrest ever more powerful energy sources and technologically advanced materials from intelligent species. It spawned more powerful zennoga and learned to develop planetary defenses. An armada of two dozen ships sent in retaliation for the zennoga’s depredations was unable to penetrate the obelisk’s global force field. One ship barely survived the carnage as a swarm of planet-side zennoga devastated the armada and the obelisk’s star system and its neighbor received a quarantine as the defeated species fled the horrific machines. The damage was done, though, and the obelisk developed new zennoga able to cross great distances. Honorable Service. Zennoga are strangely honorable constructs and attack creatures or ships they regard as superior. They ignore enemies with lesser technology and only retaliate when damaged by inferior foes. While many are grateful for zennoga not engaging in wholesale slaughter of everything they encounter, they are disturbed by the zennoga’s harvesting of advanced technology to further their deity machine’s progress toward its end goal. Neighboring worlds sometimes unite to launch pyrrhic attacks on the zennoga to prevent it from leaving with advanced machinery. Some cultures have also learned to entice the zennoga with promises of information on even more advanced species. @font-face {font-family:"MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-alt:"ＭＳ 明朝"; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}@font-face {font-family:"Cambria Math"; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Verdana; panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:swiss; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-1593833729 1073750107 16 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:Cambria; panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; mso-font-charset:0; mso-generic-font-family:roman; mso-font-pitch:variable; mso-font-signature:-536869121 1107305727 33554432 0 415 0;}@font-face {font-family:"\@MS Mincho"; panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4; mso-font-charset:128; mso-generic-font-family:modern; mso-font-pitch:fixed; mso-font-signature:-536870145 1791491579 134217746 0 131231 0;}p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; margin:0cm; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman",serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}p.BodyCopy, li.BodyCopy, div.BodyCopy {mso-style-name:"Body Copy"; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-unhide:no; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-next:Normal; margin:0cm; line-height:12.0pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:8.0pt; font-family:"Verdana",sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:EN-GB;}.MsoChpDefault {mso-style-type:export-only; mso-default-props:yes; font-size:10.0pt; mso-ansi-font-size:10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Cambria",serif; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-fareast-font-family:"MS Mincho"; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-font-kerning:0pt; mso-ligatures:none;}div.WordSection1 {page:WordSection1;}

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Huge
- Type: construct
- Alignment: lawful evil
- Expansion: 32483
- Challenge Rating: 17

**publisher**: Legendary Games

**book**: Alien Bestiary

