# Zombie Plague Spreader

**description**: Among the undead, a lone zombie ranks far from the most menacing. The horror of the shambling dead lies not in their individual menace, though, but their numbers, their persistence, and their disregard for their own well-being. A throng of zombies will douse a forest fire with their own ashes or march into a dragon’s maw until the monster chokes. In the course of their relentless marches, zombies might suffer all manner of trauma, potentially reducing them to masses of crawling limbs (see the swarm of zombie limbs stat block), infecting them with terrible diseases (see the zombie plague spreader stat block), or crushing an entire horde into a single, rotting titan (see the zombie clot stat block). Zombie Apocalypses Among the types of horror adventures detailed in chapter 2, tales of uncontrolled zombie outbreaks orbit the dark fantasy and disaster horror genres. The horror of these adventures focuses not on the terror of a single zombie, but of countless individual threats overwhelming society. When creating your own undead calamities, consider the plots presented on the Zombie Apocalypses table. Zombie Apocalypses d4 Zombie Plot 1 A twisted wish causes those affected by healing magic and potions of healing to rise as zombies. 2 Overwhelming magic reanimates zombies again and again as swarms of zombie limbs. 3 The githyanki unleash zombie plague spreaders to scour mind flayers from a world. 4 The seals containing an underground zombie horde fail, releasing ancient zombie clots. Traits Undead Fortitude. If damage reduces the plague spreader to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the plague spreader drops to 1 hit point instead. Unusual Nature. The plague spreader doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep. Viral Aura. Any creature that starts its turn within 10 feet of the plague spreader must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is poisoned and can’t regain hit points until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature is immune to this plague spreader’s Viral Aura for 24 hours. Actions Multiattack. The plague spreader makes two Slam attacks. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack : +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit : 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage. Virulent Miasma (1/Day). The plague spreader releases toxic gas in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on itself. Each creature in that area must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A Humanoid reduced to 0 hit points by this damage dies and rises as a zombie (see its stat block in the Monster Manual) 1 minute later. The zombie acts immediately after the plague spreader in the initiative count.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: undead
- Expansion: 10535
- Challenge Rating: 4

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Van Richten's Guide To Ravenloft

