# Zorlek the Immortal

**description**: “We don’t get to stop until all the people in Tolia live as equals! Death to the vampires. Death to the tyrants!” Zorlek is the head of the Tolia Freedom Movement, which is also called “the Anarchists of Tolia” or “the Rebellion” by the people of Kanrath and Cyherested. He is a respected hero among the members of the movement but is accused of atrocities by others. Since Zorlek acts under the command of the Sixth Child in secret, most of his orders are in fact ordered by the Sixth Child. In the end, Zorlek takes responsibility for all the actions of the movement and acts as the leader. Zorlek’s Story Zorlek was born during the mortal rebellion in 503 NE. At that time, the rebellion was as covert as can be and barely took action since their leaders were villainized in the eyes of the people and actively hunted down. He grew up with his parents in caves in the Wuthering Pastures, moving from one cave to the next twice a year. Members of the rebellion cared for him just as he was their own child and taught him how to read, write, and act properly in the ways of the rebellion. As Zorlek grew up, he became a good warrior and most importantly, a good leader. He had an “aura” that brought thrill to the people and ideas that spread hope among them. At the age of sixteen, he received an invitation from the Sixth Child. They devised a plan together, one in which Zorlek would become the new leader of the rebellion, and the Sixth Child would remain in the shadows and become the master strategist. The name of the rebellion was to change to the Tolia Freedom Movement, and Zorlek was to gather as many people and weapons as he could, no matter the cost. When the deal was struck, Zorlek returned to his cave as a different person. He had left as the child of the rebellion and returned as the leader of the movement. News spread quickly and the people began to fight for their rights once more. This time, the people named them the “Anarchists of Tolia”, since they were much more aggressive with their methods. This mattered little to the Zorlek since he had plans to raid traveling merchants, upgrade the arsenal, and improve the living conditions in all the hideouts. His defining act was to join every raid himself to lead his soldiers personally. With this strategy, the movement lost almost half the number of people compared to before, and the people of the movement dubbed Zorlek “the Immortal”, as he returned from every battle almost unharmed. Zorlek’s Goals Zorlek wants to end the rule of tyrannical monsters in Kanrath and make the city a good place to live for all kinds of people. He believes what gives blood its worth is the current system, and that all must come together to put an end to this corruption. However, he knows he can’t win this battle without using the weapons of the enemy. Thus he is willing to do anything and compromise everything in order to grow in power. Roleplaying Zorlek Zorlek is fun to be around, except when he is drunk. If he drinks a little too much, he becomes gloomy and depressed, as he saw a lot of terrible things happen to those who he loved. On his normal days, he likes to talk to people and learn about their lives. But on the days of a mission, he tries to act brave and only speaks to order and encourage people. Zorlek in Combat Zorlek always travels with four Anarchists of Tolia (bandit). He tries to talk to people before initiating combat to calm the aggressive mood and explain their doings.

**properties**:
- Category: Monsters
- Size: Medium
- Type: humanoid (tiefling)
- Alignment: chaotic neutral
- Expansion: 24099
- Challenge Rating: 8

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

