# Baneful Trigger

**description**: When you use this power, you create a trigger that causes harm when conditions are met to set it off. The trigger can take the form of a semi-translucent mark (in a design of your choice) or a tiny micro-device. It is placed either upon a surface (such as a desk, panel, or a section of floor or wall) or within an object that can be closed (such as a box, case, or cabinet) to conceal the trigger. If you choose a surface, the trigger’s sensor can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object must remain in its place; if the object is moved more than 10 feet from where you activated this power, the trigger is nullified, and the effect automatically ends. The trigger is nearly invisible and requires a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your esper power save DC to be found. You decide what sets off the trigger when you activate this power. Triggers placed on a surface, are typically set off by touching or standing on them, removing another object covering the trigger, approaching within a certain distance of the trigger, or manipulating the object on which the trigger is placed. Triggers placed within an object are most commonly set off by opening that object, approaching within a certain distance of the object, or seeing and looking at the trigger for a set length of time. Once a trigger is set off, its effect activates then immediately ends. You can further refine the trigger so the effect activates only under certain circumstances or according to physical characteristics (such as height or weight), creature kind (for example, to be set off only by netherants or kanasi), or alignment. You can also set conditions for creatures that don’t set off the trigger, such as those who say a certain password. When you activate this power, choose one of the options below for its effect. Once set off, the trigger glows, filling a 60-foot-radius sphere with dim light for 10 minutes, after which time the effect ends. Each creature in the sphere when the trigger activates is targeted by its effect, as is a creature that enters the sphere for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. Death. Each target must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 10d10 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save. Discord. Each target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target bickers and argues with other creatures for 1 minute. During this time, it is incapable of meaningful communication and has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Fear. Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw and becomes frightened for 1 minute on a failed save. While frightened, the target drops whatever it is holding and must move at least 30 feet away from the glyph on each of its turns, if able. Hopelessness. Each target must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target is overwhelmed with despair for 1 minute. During this time, it can’t attack or target any creature with harmful abilities, powers, or other similar effects. Insanity. Each target must make an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target is driven insane for 1 minute. An insane creature can’t take actions, can’t understand what other creatures say, can’t read, and speaks only in gibberish. The GM controls its movement, which is erratic. Pain. Each target must make a Constitution saving throw and becomes incapacitated with excruciating pain for 1 minute on a failed save. Sleep. Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw and falls unconscious for 10 minutes on a failed save. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake. Stunning. Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw and becomes stunned for 1 minute on a failed save.

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 7
- School: Metaphase
- Expansion: 27051
- Casting Time: 1 minute
- data-RangeAoe: Touch

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

