# Call Spirit

**description**: 4th-level necromancy Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 10 feet Components: V, S, M (the corpse of a humanoid that died no more than 1 hour ago) Duration: Instantaneous For the full casting time of the spell, you must remain within 10 feet of the corpse used as the material component. The spell, using the corpse as a focus, reaches into the beyond and drags the creature’s spirit back into the realm of the living, creating a shadow . Once you create an undead with this spell, the corpse can’t be used as a material component for this spell again. An undead created with this spell has double the hit points listed in its stat block, and retains the personality of the creature used to create it. Though it may or may not be friendly toward you depending on how it interacted with you prior to its death, it treats you as though you are its ally while you are in control of it. On each of your turns, you can mentally command the undead created with this spell if it is within 60 feet of you (no action required by you). If the undead created with this spell created its own undead, you can command any or all of those creatures at the same time, issuing the command to each one. You decide what action the creature will take and where it will move during its next turn, or you can issue a general command, such as to guard a particular chamber or corridor. If you issue no commands, the creature only defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is complete. The creature is under your control for 24 hours, after which it stops obeying any command you’ve given it and becomes hostile to you and your companions. To maintain control of the creature for another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature again before the current 24-hour period ends. This use of the spell reasserts your control over the creature, rather than animating a new one. If the undead created with this feature created its own undead, those undead are destroyed at the end of the 24-hour period, whether you reasserted control over the original or not. If you cast the spell to create a new undead, any previous undead you’ve created with the spell is destroyed. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 5th-level or higher spell slot, you can create or reassert control over an indentured spirit ( Guildmaster’s Guide to Ravnica ) or specter . When you cast this spell using a 6th-level or higher spell slot, you can create or reassert control over a poltergeist or will-o’-wisp . When you cast this spell using a 7th-level or higher spell slot, you can create or reassert control over a sword wraith warrior ( Mordenkainen’s Tome of Foes ). When you cast this spell using an 8th-level or higher spell slot, you can create or reassert control over a banshee or ghost . When you cast this spell using a 9th-level spell slot, you can create or reassert control over an allip ( Mordenkainen’s Tome of Foes ) or wraith .

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 4
- School: necromancy
- Components: V, S, M
- Casting Time: 1 minute

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

