# Divine Avenger

**description**: 8th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, M (a holy symbol) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute A Huge spectral avenger appears in an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within range. The spell fails if the space you choose is not large enough to accommodate the avenger. The avenger appears angelic if you are good, fey if you are neutral, or fiendish if you are evil, and it has armor emblazoned with the symbol of your deity. It acts during your turn, is immune to all conditions and damage, and is unaffected by spells other than antimagic field or dispel magic . You can use a bonus action on your turn to verbally command the avenger to take a specific action from the following list: Move. The avenger moves toward an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see by the most direct route, as though it has a flying speed of 60 feet. Punish. Choose a point within 30 feet of the avenger that you can see. The avenger launches divine energy from its hand at the indicated spot, causing an explosion affecting each creature within 10 feet of the point. Each creature other than you in the area must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 6d6 damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. The damage type of the explosion is determined by your alignment: radiant damage for good, force damage for neutral, or necrotic damage for evil. Smite. Choose a creature that you can see. The avenger moves toward that creature by the most direct route, as though the avenger has a flying speed of 30 feet, then you make a melee spell attack against the target if it’s within 5 feet of the avenger. If the attack hits, the target takes 8d8 damage. The damage type of the attack is determined by your alignment: radiant damage for good, force damage for neutral, or necrotic damage for evil. If your concentration ends on this spell due to you being reduced to 0 hit points or dying, the spell doesn’t end; instead, you lose control of the spell, which no longer requires your concentration, and the avenger flares with righteous vengeance until its 1-minute duration expires. While in this state, it focuses on the creature that reduced you to 0 hit points or that killed you, ignoring all other creatures and using its Smite action targeting the creature if the creature is within range of the action’s movement, or the Move action toward the closest unoccupied space to the creature if it isn’t. When the avenger takes either of these actions while in this state, it moves toward the creature as though the action’s flying speed were doubled. Additionally, when it uses its Smite action against the creature while in this state, you make two spell attacks against the target, as described in the action, instead of one. Once the creature is dead, the spell ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 8
- School: conjuration
- Components: V, M
- Casting Time: 1 action

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

