# Epidemic

**description**: 9th-level necromancy Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self (30-foot radius) Components: V, S Duration: 8 hours You become an incubator for a magical disease. Choose a disease of your choice from any of the ones described below. At the DM’s option, you may choose an alternative disease effect, but it should be no more powerful than those described below. Blinding Sickness. Pain grips the creature’s mind, and its eyes turn milky white. The creature has disadvantage on Wisdom checks and Wisdom saving throws and is blinded. Filth Fever. A raging fever sweeps through the creature’s body. The creature has disadvantage on Strength checks, Strength saving throws, and attack rolls that use Strength. Flesh Rot. The creature’s flesh decays. The creature has disadvantage on Charisma checks and vulnerability to all damage. Mindfire. The creature’s mind becomes feverish. The creature has disadvantage on Intelligence checks and Intelligence saving throws, and the creature behaves as if under the effects of the confusion spell during combat. Seizure. The creature is overcome with shaking. The creature has disadvantage on Dexterity checks, Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls that use Dexterity. Slimy Doom. The creature begins to bleed uncontrollably. The creature has disadvantage on Constitution checks and Constitution saving throws. In addition, whenever the creature takes damage, it is stunned until the end of its next turn. Until the spell ends, each creature other than you that starts its turn within 30 feet of you unknowingly becomes an infected carrier for the disease. While a creature is an infected carrier, each creature other than you that starts its turn within 30 feet of it unknowingly becomes an infected carrier as well. Symptoms of the disease don’t begin to manifest until the spell ends. When you cast this spell, you can designate any number of creatures within 30 feet of you. For 24 hours, those creatures are immune to the chosen disease and can’t become infected by it. As an action, you can choose to end the spell early. Once the spell ends, each infected creature must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature makes this saving throw with disadvantage if it’s within 30 feet of you. On a failed save, the creature suffers the disease’s effects for 24 hours, and must repeat the saving throw at the end of each 24-hour period until it’s cured of the disease, extending the disease’s effects for another 24 hours and gaining a level of exhaustion each time it fails. If a creature succeeds on its saving throw, it is cured of the disease. While it suffers the disease, a creature gains no benefits from taking long rests, other than preventing itself from suffering further levels of exhaustion due to lack of sleep. Since this spell creates magical disease, the chosen disease is much more difficult to cure than normal. A heal or power word heal cast on an affected creature instantly cures them of the disease. A creature can also cast greater restoration on an affected creature to attempt to cure it; the caster must make a spellcasting ability check against your spell save DC when it casts the spell, curing the target of the disease on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 9
- School: necromancy
- Expansion: 20542
- Components: V, S
- Casting Time: 1 action
- data-RangeAoe: Self (30 ft ○)

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

