# Forced Chaos Surge

**description**: You interrupt a creature in the process of casting a spell and force it to roll a Concentration check against your spell DC. If the creature fails, it must roll on the Chaos Magic Surge table. Chaos Magic Surge d100 Effect 01–02 You fall unconscious. You remain so for 24 hours, or until you take damage, or a creature uses its action to shake or slap you awake. 03–04 You cast confusion as a 6th-level spell, centered on yourself. You must also make the saving throw and are affected by the spell on a failed save. The effect lasts for 1 minute and does not require concentration. 05–06 1d100 goodberries (as if produced by the goodberry spell) spill from the sky above you. They remain for 1 hour, after which any unconsumed berries disappear. 07–08 Scrawled, graffiti-like tattoos appear across your skin. The tattoos are in Abyssal, Deep Speech, or Celestial (GM’s choice) and are all expressions of profanity. A remove curse spell ends this effect. 09–10 Your arms become black tentacles for 1 minute. You drop any weapons or items you were holding. In this form, your unarmed strikes are magical, you are proficient with them, they deal 1d6 slashing damage, and you have a reach of 10 feet. 11–12 You cast barkskin on yourself. 13–14 An ethereal kitten controlled by the GM appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. It remains for 1 minute, then disappears in a puff of pink glitter. 15–16 You smell like rotten fish for the next 24 hours. 17–18 You cast chain lightning , targeting a creature of your choice within range. 19–20 Oversized, unblinking eyes appear in the air above you and remain for 1 hour. They cannot be harmed. They follow you no matter where you go and stare down at you, watching your every move. You cannot take a short or long rest for the duration. 21–22 The ground splits open and a tree grows in your space, shoving you harmlessly into an unoccupied space within 5 feet. The tree is 3 feet in diameter and stands 40 feet tall, and its branches span a 30-foot radius. If a ceiling or other structure would impede the growth of the tree, it magically grows through the obstacle without breaking it. 23–24 A rat appears in your pack. 25–26 Up to six creatures of your choice within 30 feet of you each regain hit points equal to your spellcasting ability modifier. 27–28 Up to six creatures of your choice within 30 feet of you each take psychic damage equal to your spellcasting ability modifier. 29–30 The ambient temperature within a 1-mile radius of you drops by 15 degrees for 24 hours. 31–32 The smell of ozone fills the space around you, and a bolt of lightning splits the skies. You take 3d10 lightning damage and are stunned until the end of your next turn. 33–34 Every creature within 15 feet of you, including yourself, is under the effect of a haste spell until the end of its next turn. 35–36 Every creature within 15 feet of you, including yourself, is under the effect of a slow spell until the end of its next turn. 37–38 You cast black tentacles on a 20-foot square you can see within range. 39–40 You cast no reflection. 41–42 A second head sprouts on your shoulder beside your own head. The head looks exactly like your original, except the eye sockets are empty black voids, and the head screams continuously. You gain advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight and disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. A remove curse spell ends this effect. 43–44 Pyrotechnics shoot 80 feet into the air above you and explode in a flash of light and sound that can be seen and heard up to 5 miles away. 45–46 You cast invisibility on yourself. 47–48 You gain a minor lactose intolerance if you do not already have one. A lesser restoration spell ends this effect. 49–50 You cast fire shield on yourself. 51–52 Your tongue becomes forked. 53–54 You become Tiny for 1 minute. Everything you are wearing and carrying reduces in size along with you. Your speed is halved, your weapon attacks do 2d4 less damage (minimum of 1), and you have disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws until the effect ends. 55–56 A zoog swarm (see Chapter 5 ) controlled by the GM appears in your space. 57–58 Clouds fill the sky above you in a 300-foot radius around your location. At the start of your next turn, a heavy rain begins to fall, and it continues for 1 minute. 59–60 You are stunned until the end of your next turn as you spend the next round vomiting up teeth. 61–62 You heal 2d4 hp and gain advantage on your next attack roll, saving throw, or ability check. 63–64 You disappear and instantly reappear in an unoccupied space 30 feet away in a random direction. 65–66 Your tongue elongates and sharpens to a point. You can attack with it as an action, using it as an unarmed strike with a reach of 10 feet. On a hit, you deal 1d4 piercing damage, and you regain the same amount of hit points. This effect lasts for 1 minute. 67–68 A vial of an oil-like potion appears in your inventory and remains for 1 minute. During this time, a creature can consume the vial’s contents. To determine the effect on the drinker, roll a d4: (1) it regains 4d6 hp; (2) it takes 5d6 psychic damage; (3) it gains resistance to all damage types for 1 hour; or (4) it gains 1 level of exhaustion. 69–70 You hear voices whispering in your head for the next hour. You can’t understand what they’re saying, but you feel compelled to listen. You gain disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws for the duration. 71–72 Fragrant, blood-red flowers sprout beneath your feet. When you walk, they grow up in your wake. A remove curse spell ends this effect. 73–74 A silver platter piled with enough food to feed five creatures appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. 75–76 You cast polymorph on yourself. On a failed save, you turn into a frog for 1 hour. 77–78 The ground in a 10-foot radius centered on you turns into 2-foot-deep purple muck. It is considered difficult terrain. 79–80 For the next hour, whenever you speak, laughter fills the air around you. 81–82 You cast haste on a creature of your choice that you can see. 83–84 Shimmering black butterflies appear in your space and remain clustered about you for 1 minute. They obscure the space around you, making it hard to see. For the duration, attacks against you are made with disadvantage, and you have disadvantage on your attack rolls. 85–86 You grow an extra finger on each hand. 87–88 A gelatinous cube falls from the sky and lands with a splat in an unoccupied space within 20 feet of you. It is confused and hostile. 89–90 Your skin becomes coated in a fine layer of glitter. It never seems to wash off, no matter how many times you bathe, and prestidigitation has no effect. 91–92 A chaos drake (see Chapter 5 ) appears in an unoccupied space you can see within 5 feet of you. It is friendly toward you and your allies. It remains until it is reduced to 0 hp, whereupon it vanishes. 93–94 Your eyes protrude from their sockets on long eyestalks, allowing you to look in more than one direction at a time, including behind yourself. You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks relying on sight, and you cannot be surprised. After 24 hours, your eyeballs return to their sockets with a wet popping sound, and the effect ends. 95–96 A black spot appears on the palm of your hand. 97–98 You can pinpoint the exact location of every dog within a half-mile of you. 99–100 You cast wish .

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 2
- School: abjuration
- Expansion: 25357
- Components: V, S
- Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you see a creature within 60 feet of you casting a spell
- data-RangeAoe: 60 feet

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

