# Mercurius's Curious Clone

**description**: 9th-level illusion Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: S Duration: Instantaneous By gathering threads of shadow material from the Shadowfell, you create an illusory duplicate of yourself in an unoccupied space you can see within range. The duplicate is tangible; it occupies its space as if it were a creature and it counts as a creature for the purpose of effects that can target creatures. In combat, the duplicate shares your initiative count, and takes its turns in combat immediately after yours. You control it as you would yourself, though to have the duplicate use a reaction, you must use yours, as well. It looks exactly the same as you do at the moment of its creation, and it appears with a copy of each nonmagical piece of equipment on your person, though a piece of this equipment disappears if it is ever further than 5 feet from the duplicate. The duplicate uses all of your statistics and traits, with the following changes: The duplicate’s hit point maximum is half of yours. The duplicate does not require air, food, water, or sleep, and is immune to the charmed, exhaustion, frightened, petrified, and unconscious conditions. The duplicate has a flying speed of 30 feet, and its movement and actions make no noise unless you choose for them to do so, or a spell or ability requires it to speak or otherwise make noise. You share your powers and abilities with the duplicate. If you have the duplicate cast a spell that requires a spell slot or have it use a feature or trait with a limited number of uses, it expends one of your spell slots or one of your uses of the feature or trait; it has no spell slots or uses of its own. If the duplicate casts a spell or uses an ability that requires it to maintain concentration, you are responsible for maintaining concentration on the effect. The duplicate can’t regain hit points through conventional means. Spells, potions, and class features fail to heal it, though you can use your bonus action and expend a spell slot to cause it to regain 1d8 hit points per level of the expended spell slot. It also regains all of its hit points when you finish a short or long rest. The duplicate can’t attune to magic items, though it counts as being attuned to each magic item to which you are attuned. You can see through the duplicate’s eyes, hear through its ears, and speak through its mouth (no action required by you) for any duration of time. While you use your duplicate’s senses or speak through it, you are deaf and blind with regard to your own senses and are unable to speak from your own mouth. A creature is able to determine that the duplicate is an illusion only through the use of magic, such as the detect magic spell, or if it has truesight. In either case, the creature sees the illusion as translucent, and can see that it is hollow beneath the layer of imagery and shadow material from which it is constructed. If you or your duplicate casts this spell again while you already have a duplicate, the previous duplicate is destroyed. The duplicate is also destroyed if you are ever on a different plane than it, or if it drops to 0 hit points or would be instantly killed, such as through a disintegrate or power word kill spell. You can also have the duplicate destroy itself as an action on its turn. When the duplicate is destroyed, each piece of equipment it appeared with disappears.

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 9
- School: illusion
- Components: S
- Casting Time: 1 action
- data-RangeAoe: 30 feet

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

