# Prismatic Wall

**description**: Level 9 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard) Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms a vertical opaque wall—up to 90 feet long, 30 feet high, and 1 inch thick—centered on a point within range. Alternatively, you shape the wall into a globe up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point within range. The wall lasts for the duration. If you position the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the spell ends instantly without effect. The wall sheds Bright Light within 100 feet and Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and creatures you designate when you cast the spell can pass through and be near the wall without harm. If another creature that can see the wall moves within 20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition for 1 minute. The wall consists of seven layers, each with a different color. When a creature reaches into or passes through the wall, it does so one layer at a time through all the layers. Each layer forces the creature to make a Dexterity saving throw or be affected by that layer’s properties as described in the Prismatic Layers table. The wall, which has AC 10, can be destroyed one layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed, it is gone for the duration. Antimagic Field has no effect on the wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the violet layer. Prismatic Layers Order Effects 1 Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can’t pass through this layer, which is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Cold damage. 2 Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can’t pass through this layer, which is destroyed by a strong wind (such as the one created by Gust of Wind ). 3 Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 60 Force damage. 4 Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: A Passwall spell, or another spell of equal or greater level that can open a portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer. 5 Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Fire damage. 6 Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn’t be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind. Additional Effects: Spells can’t be cast through this layer, which is destroyed by Bright Light shed by the Daylight spell. 7 Violet. Failed Save: The target has the Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence (DM’s choice). Additional Effects: This layer is destroyed by Dispel Magic .

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- School: Abjuration
- Classes: Bard, Wizard
- Expansion: 33335
- data-List: false
- filter-Tags: Utility, Constitution Save, Blinded
- Spell Attack: None
- filter-Level: 9
- filter-Range: Medium (60 feet or less)
- filter-Ritual: No
- filter-Upcast: No
- filter-Duration: 10 min
- data-datarecords: [{"name":"Prismatic Wall","level":"9","payload":"{\"type\":\"Spell\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall\",\"description\":\"A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms a vertical opaque wall - up to 90 feet long, 30 feet high, and 1 inch thick - centered on a point within range. Alternatively, you shape the wall into a globe up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point within range. The wall lasts for the duration. If you position the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the spell ends instantly without effect.\\nThe wall sheds Bright Light within 100 feet and Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and creatures you designate when you cast the spell can pass through and be near the wall without harm. If another creature that can see the wall moves within 20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition for 1 minute.\\nThe wall consists of seven layers, each with a different color. When a creature reaches into or passes through the wall, it does so one layer at a time through all the layers. Each layer forces the creature to make a Dexterity saving throw or be affected by that layer's properties as described in the Prismatic Layers table.\\nThe wall, which has AC 10, can be destroyed one layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed, it is gone for the duration. Antimagic Field has no effect on the wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the violet layer.\\nPrismatic Layers\\nOrder - Effects\\n1 - Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can't pass through this layer, which is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Cold damage.\\n2 - Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can't pass through this layer, which is destroyed by a strong wind (such as the one created by Gust of Wind).\\n3 - Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 60 Force damage.\\n4 - Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: A Passwall spell, or another spell of equal or greater level that can open a portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer.\\n5 - Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Fire damage.\\n6 - Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind. Additional Effects: Spells can't be cast through this layer, which is destroyed by Bright Light shed by the Daylight spell.\\n7 - Violet. Failed Save: The target has the Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence (DM's choice). Additional Effects: This layer is destroyed by Dispel Magic.\",\"level\":9,\"school\":\"Abjuration\",\"castingTime\":\"Action\",\"range\":\"60 feet\",\"duration\":\"10 minutes\",\"components\":{\"verbal\":true,\"somatic\":true},\"aoe\":{\"shape\":\"Wall\",\"size\":\"90 feet long, 30 feet high*\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Proximity Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Proximity\",\"description\":\"If another creature that can see the wall moves within 20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition for 1 minute.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Constitution\",\"onFail\":\"Blinded condition for 1 minute.\"},\"actionType\":\"Free Action\"}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Red Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Red\",\"description\":\"Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can't pass through this layer, which is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Cold damage.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Dexterity\",\"onFail\":\"Take 12d6 Fire damage.\",\"onSucceed\":\"Half as much damage.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Red Damage","parent":"Prismatic Wall Red Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"none\",\"damageType\":\"Fire\",\"diceCount\":12,\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Orange Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Orange\",\"description\":\"Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can't pass through this layer, which is destroyed by a strong wind (such as the one created by Gust of Wind).\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Dexterity\",\"onFail\":\"Take 12d6 Acid damage.\",\"onSucceed\":\"Half as much damage.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Orange Damage","parent":"Prismatic Wall Orange Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"none\",\"damageType\":\"Acid\",\"diceCount\":12,\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Yellow Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Yellow\",\"description\":\"Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 60 Force damage.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Dexterity\",\"onFail\":\"Take 12d6 Lightning damage.\",\"onSucceed\":\"Half as much damage.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Yellow Damage","parent":"Prismatic Wall Yellow Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"none\",\"damageType\":\"Lightning\",\"diceCount\":12,\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Green Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Green\",\"description\":\"Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: A Passwall spell, or another spell of equal or greater level that can open a portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Dexterity\",\"onFail\":\"Take 12d6 Poison damage.\",\"onSucceed\":\"Half as much damage.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Green Damage","parent":"Prismatic Wall Green Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"none\",\"damageType\":\"Poison\",\"diceCount\":12,\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Blue Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Blue\",\"description\":\"Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Fire damage.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Dexterity\",\"onFail\":\"Take 12d6 Cold damage.\",\"onSucceed\":\"Half as much damage.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Blue Damage","parent":"Prismatic Wall Blue Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"none\",\"damageType\":\"Cold\",\"diceCount\":12,\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Indigo Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Indigo\",\"description\":\"Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind. Additional Effects: Spells can't be cast through this layer, which is destroyed by Bright Light shed by the Daylight spell.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Dexterity\",\"onFail\":\"Target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Indigo Condition","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Condition\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall Indigo Restrained\",\"description\":\"The target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind.\"}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Indigo Restrained Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Indigo Restrained\",\"description\":\"Makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Constitution\",\"onFail\":\"If fails three times, gains the Petrified condition.\",\"onSucceed\":\"If successful three times, the condition ends.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Violet Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Violet\",\"description\":\"Violet. Failed Save: The target has the Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence (DM's choice). Additional Effects: This layer is destroyed by Dispel Magic.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Dexterity\",\"onFail\":\"The target has the Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn.\"}}"},{"name":"Prismatic Wall Violet Blinded Attack","parent":"Prismatic Wall","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Prismatic Wall - Violet Blinded\",\"description\":\"Makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence (DM's choice).\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Wisdom\",\"onFail\":\"The Blinded condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence (DM's choice).\",\"onSucceed\":\"The Blinded condition ends.\"}}"}]
- filter-Components: Verbal, Somatic
- filter-Casting Time: Action
- filter-Concentration: No
- Name: Prismatic Wall
- data-description: A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms a vertical opaque wall - up to 90 feet long, 30 feet high, and 1 inch thick - centered on a point within range. Alternatively, you shape the wall into a globe up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point within range. The wall lasts for the duration. If you position the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the spell ends instantly without effect.
The wall sheds Bright Light within 100 feet and Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and creatures you designate when you cast the spell can pass through and be near the wall without harm. If another creature that can see the wall moves within 20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition for 1 minute.
The wall consists of seven layers, each with a different color. When a creature reaches into or passes through the wall, it does so one layer at a time through all the layers. Each layer forces the creature to make a Dexterity saving throw or be affected by that layer's properties as described in the Prismatic Layers table.
The wall, which has AC 10, can be destroyed one layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed, it is gone for the duration. Antimagic Field has no effect on the wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the violet layer.
Prismatic Layers
Order - Effects
1 - Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can't pass through this layer, which is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Cold damage.
2 - Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can't pass through this layer, which is destroyed by a strong wind (such as the one created by Gust of Wind).
3 - Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 60 Force damage.
4 - Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: A Passwall spell, or another spell of equal or greater level that can open a portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer.
5 - Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Fire damage.
6 - Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind. Additional Effects: Spells can't be cast through this layer, which is destroyed by Bright Light shed by the Daylight spell.
7 - Violet. Failed Save: The target has the Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence (DM's choice). Additional Effects: This layer is destroyed by Dispel Magic.
- Level: 9
- Casting Time: Action
- Duration: 10 minutes
- Range: 60 feet
- Components: V S
- data-CastNum: 2
- data-DurationNum: 6
- data-RangeNum: 60
- Save: Constitution
- Damage: 12d6
- Damage Type: Fire
- data-RangeAoe: 60 ft (90 feet long, 30 feet high* ○)

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Free Basic Rules (2024)

