# Programmed Trigger

**description**: When you use this power, you create a trigger that causes harm when conditions are met to set it off. The trigger can take the form of a semi-translucent mark (in a design of your choice), or a tiny micro-device. It is placed either upon a surface (such as a desk, panel, or a section of floor or wall) or within an object that can be closed (such as a box, case, or cabinet) to conceal the trigger. If you choose a surface, the trigger’s sensor can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object must remain in its place; if the object is moved more than 10 feet from where you activated this power, the trigger is nullified, and the effect automatically ends. The trigger is nearly invisible and requires a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your esper power save DC to be found. You decide what sets off the trigger when you activate this power. Triggers placed on a surface, are typically set off by touching or standing on them, removing another object covering the trigger, approaching within a certain distance of the trigger, or manipulating the object on which the trigger is placed. Triggers placed within an object are most commonly set off by opening that object, approaching within a certain distance of the object, or seeing and looking at the trigger for a set length of time. Once a trigger is set off, its effect activates then immediately ends. You can further refine the trigger so the effect activates only under certain circumstances or according to physical characteristics (such as height or weight), creature kind (for example, to be set off only by netherants or kanasi), or alignment. You can also set conditions for creatures that don’t set off the trigger, such as those who say a certain password. When you place the trigger, choose between an explosive trigger and a power trigger. Explosive Trigger. When set off, the trigger erupts with elemental energy in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on the trigger. The sphere spreads around corners. Each creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 5d8 acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage on a failed saving throw (your choice when you create the trigger), or half as much damage on a successful one. Power Trigger. You can store a power of rank 3 or lower in the trigger by activating it as part of using this power. When you do so, you expend the appropriate tech slot or talent points in addition to the cost of using this power. The power must target a single creature or an area. The power being stored has no immediate effect when used in this way. When the trigger is set off, the stored power is activated. If the power has a target, it targets the creature that set off the trigger. If the power affects an area, the area is centered on that creature. If the power summons hostile creatures or creates harmful objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to the intruder and attack it. If the power requires concentration, it lasts until the end of its full duration. At Higher Ranks. When you use this power at rank 4 or higher, the damage of an explosive trigger increases by 1d8 for each rank above 3. If you create a power trigger , you can store any power of the same rank as the rank at which you activate programmed trigger .

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 3
- School: Metaphase
- Expansion: 27051
- Casting Time: 1 hour

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

