# Realm of Illusion

**description**: Tier 3 ai r illusion Casting Time: 10 minutes Base Favor Cost: 2 Range: Self (30-foot sphere) Components (Required): V, S Resonances: You are in an area of dim light or darkness (1 bonus favor), it is the night of a new moon (2 bonus favor), you are in the Realm of Animals or Realm of Dreams (2 bonus favor) Duration: 1 hour, or until you leave the sphere Effects: You murmur an appeal to trickster spirits to create a false realm that fills the range of the invocation. This illusory terrain can look like anything you choose, from an enchanted glen to a vast desert to a battlefield covered in broken weapons to a copy of a real place in the Mortal Realm or beyond. Any creature that encounters the illusion must make a Wisdom saving throw to realize it is not real. A creature that is within the area when the invocation is completed has advantage on its saving throw. If a creature realizes the illusory nature of the area, it must still spend an action and make a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check with DC equal to your invocation save DC to find what is hidden beyond the illusory facade. You can create any number of objects within the area, and up to 3 illusory creatures. These illusions appear to have all sensory qualities of the things they represent (appearance, texture and the feel of weight, sounds, smell, and taste). However, objects created this way cannot function as their equivalents, and creatures created this way are intangible. The sphere remains in place if you move inside of it, but ends when you leave its confines. Empowerments You can spend favor for the following empowerments of this i nvocation: 1 favor: You hasten the rites, treating this invocation’s casting time as “1 minute.” 1+ favor: You weave an especially subtle illusion. Increase the DC of saving throws to resist the illusion and checks to see past it by 3 per favor spent this way. 1+ favor: You increase the radius of the sphere by +10 feet per favor spent this way. 1+ favor: You can create up to 3 additional illusory creatures per favor spent this way. 2 favor: This invocation’s duration is increased to 4 hours. 2 favor: Inanimate, non-magical objects within the illusory realm have mass, and can function as their physical equivalents within this area. Creatures created as part of the illusion are still intangible. 2 favor: You empower yourself to change the illusion as desired. On your turn, you can spend a bonus action to either change one aspect of the existing illusion or to create one new illusion of an object or creature with all of the empowerments for the invocation. 2 favor: You dramatically hasten the rites, treating the invocation’s casting time as “1 action.” 2+ favor: Creatures with CR lower than two times the favor spent this way that you create as part of the illusion have mass, believe themselves to be real, and can function as their physical equivalents within this area. They are inclined to help you, but have their own motivations and desires. If you re-create a creature this way, you can choose whether it remembers the previous times it was created or not. 3 favor: You weave the illusion as a circuitous mental snare, carefully redirecting anyone who attempts to leave back toward the center. A creature who is unaware of the illusion and has not passed a check to see beyond it cannot voluntarily leave the area. It can still be hurled outside involuntarily by effects that move it. 3+ favor: Your trickery is so sophisticated that even the illusions you create can believe themselves real, the spirits of illusory items awakening at your call. When you activate this invocation, you can attempt to create one awakened weapon, armor, or other item for every 3 favor spent this way (see Awakened Items). For each such item you attempt to create, choose a magic weapon, armor, or other item you have observed and make an Arcana check with DC equal to 10 plus 5 times its level bonus (e.g. DC 15 for +1, DC 20 for +2, etc). On success, you create a replica of the item that functions as its equivalent within the area.

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Save: Wisdom
- Level: 3
- School: air illusion
- Components: V, S
- Casting Time: 10 minutes

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

