# Space Fold

**description**: This power instantly transports you and up to eight willing creatures of your choice that you can see within range, or a single object that you can see within range, to a destination you select. If you target an object, it must be able to fit entirely inside a 10-foot cube, and it can’t be held or carried by an unwilling creature. The destination you choose must be known to you, and it must be on or within orbit of the same planetary body as you. You cannot teleport between two moving vehicles unless their motion is caused by the planet’s gravity (for example, you can’t teleport between two ships operating on their own thrusters, but you can teleport to a ship in nearby orbit around the planet). Your familiarity with the destination determines whether you arrive there successfully. The GM rolls d100 and consults the table. Familiarity Mishap Similar Area Off Target On Target Very familiar — — — 01–100 Associated object — — — 01–100 Studied carefully 01 02-03 04-05 06-100 Seen casually 01-03 04-08 09-15 16-100 Viewed once 01-05 06-10 11-25 26-100 Description 01-05 06-15 16-30 31-100 False destination 01-25 26-100 — — Familiarity. “Very familiar” means a place you’ve been to very often and where you feel at home, such as your favorite nightclub or the place where you grew up. “Associated object” means that you possess an object taken from the desired destination within the last six months, such as a datapad from an old bunker, a SIM recording from your last concert, or the leather jacket you bought from a shop. “Studied carefully” is a place you have visited more than once for a prolonged period, a place you have carefully studied, or a place you can see when you activate the power. “Seen casually” is someplace you have seen more than once but with which you aren’t very familiar. “Viewed once” is a place you have seen once, possibly from an image or video. “Description” is a place whose location and appearance you know through someone else’s description, or perhaps spot on a map or chart. “False destination” is a place that doesn’t exist. Perhaps you’re working off of false data, or you’re attempting to teleport to a familiar location that no longer exists. On Target. You and your group (or the target object) appear where you want to. Off Target. You and your group (or the target object) appear a random distance away from the destination in a random direction. Distance off target is 1d10 × 1d10 percent of the distance that was to be traveled. For example, if you tried to travel 120 miles, landed off target, and rolled a 5 and 3 on the two d10s, then you would be off target by 15 percent, or 18 miles. The GM determines the direction off target randomly by rolling a d8 and designating 1 as north, 2 as northeast, 3 as east, and so on around the points of the compass. If you were teleporting to an elevated city and wound up 18 miles somewhere out in the sky, you could be in a lot of trouble. Similar Area. You and your group (or the target object) wind up in a different area that’s visually or thematically similar to the target area. If you are heading for your local starbase or space dock, for example, you might wind up in another space station or in an construction yard that holds similar ships and machinery. Generally, you appear in the closest similar place, but since the power has no range limit, you could conceivably wind up anywhere in the galaxy. Mishap. A miscalculation causes the signature of all targets within the fold to become scrambled. Each teleporting creature (or the target object) takes 3d10 force damage, and the GM rerolls on the table to see where you wind up (multiple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time). At Higher Ranks. When you use this power at rank 8, you gain a +15 bonus to your d100 roll. In addition, you can teleport to other planets within the same star system in which your familiarity is “Seen casually” or better. At rank 9, you gain a +25 bonus to your roll and can teleport anywhere in the galaxy that you’ve been to at least once.

**properties**:
- Category: Spells
- Level: 7
- School: Metaphase
- Expansion: 27051
- Casting Time: 1 action
- data-RangeAoe: 10 feet

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

