# Acrobat

**description**: Acrobats are an integral part of any circus act. Whether you have mastered the trapeze, aerial silks, acro dance, or acrobalance, your mastery over your body is unmatched. You have traveled with the circus far and wide, displaying this mastery and entertaining crowds of people far and wide. You have learned to suppress your fear, facing dangerous stunts from heights that make others’ knees buckle; a trait that translates well to a life of adventure. Skill Proficiencies : Acrobatics , Athletics Languages : Two of your choice. Equipment : A pouch full of chalk, a set of traveler’s clothes, 50 ft of hempen rope, and a pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Fearless As an acrobat, danger is part of the job. You often face towering heights, death-defying stunts, and risks where one small move could mean your death. Any fears you may have had in the past have been numbed to a point that allows you to concentrate through even the deadliest of stunts. You gain advantage on any saving throws against being frightened. Suggested Characteristics Acrobats thrive on adrenaline: the greater the challenge, the more intense the rush. They focus on keeping themselves in peak physical condition, as well as a devotion to continually pushing themselves to the limits of their capabilities. d8 Personality Trait 1 I have a mentor, whom I idolize and strive to be like in every way possible. 2 I have a lust for attention; the bigger the crowd the more impressive I can be. 3 I’m following in my family’s footsteps and yearn to impress them. 4 I have to stay in peak physical condition. Allowing my discipline to lapse could have grave consequences. 5 In my travels I have learned to fit in wherever I go, adapting quickly to local cultures. 6 If I believe I’m capable, I will attempt any feat of athleticism, especially if there is a wager involved. 7 I live life as if tomorrow will never come, because the tiniest slip could end it all. 8 There is always a greater challenge for me to face. d6 Ideal 1 Independence. At the end of the day, only I am in control of my fate. (chaotic) 2 Aspiration. I yearn for mastery of any skill I learn. (any) 3 People. The awe of a crowd brings me ultimate joy. (neutral) 4 No Limits. Nothing can stop me from pushing beyond all expectations. (chaotic) 5 Greed. I never turn down a chance to turn a profit with my talents. (evil) 6 Inspiration. Perhaps seeing me can inspire others to push their limits. (good) d6 Bond 1 I owe everything to the ringmaster who lifted me out of squalor and took me on the road with them. 2 I lost a loved one in a tragic accident. They are remembered through our shared love of the acrobatic art. 3 Every time I perform for a crowd, I will give them everything I have to give. 4 I want to be known far and wide, no matter what it costs me. 5 Persevering through pain only makes me stronger. 6 If something frightens me, I will face it and persevere. d6 Flaw 1 I purposely injured a fellow acrobat to further my career. 2 My numbness to fear allows me to unquestioningly put others in danger. 3 I am weak to temptation and vices, especially a night in the local tavern. 4 I obsessively pursue my goals, yearning for perfection. 5 I can never return home because of what I’ve done. The circus offered me an escape. 6 I pass judgement quickly, and often unfairly.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Escape Plan Games

**book**: Tavern Tales Vol 1 - A Trip Away Inn

