# Aetherial Mystic

**description**: Aetherial Mystic “Keeping your eyes only upon the heavens will make you stumble upon the earth.” You believe the elemental planes are extensions of the gods, and the aether is their lifeblood. To truly understand the heavens, we must sail their seas and experience all its glory. Skill Proficiencies: Nature, Religion Languages One language of your choice Equipment A depleted aetherium crystal, a book of general elemental knowledge, an astral compass, and a pouch containing 5 gp Bonus Trait Focused Mind Officer Progression: If you use the optional Seafarer Advancement Rules (see chapter 7), this background increases your officer station rank by one in a single officer station chosen from navigator or helmsperson Feature: Planar Affinity Your devotion to the Aetherial Expanse has somehow manifested within you, an affinity for the elemental planes. Once a day, you can open yourself to one of the elements: earth, air, fire, or water. In doing so, you may choose one of the following abilities: You create a minor breeze to blow through a small area. You call forth a fingerling of fire to dance on the tip of your hand. You create a tiny, earthen statue made of stone and plant life. With a touch, you bring moisture to the driest of things. You make a 3-inch square of dampness. Suggested Characteristics Aetherial Mystics come from many walks of life; however, most tend to be curious, seeking adventure to find enlightenment in the mortal realms, and exploring the unknown in search of divine knowledge. Personality Trait D8 Personality Trait 1 To hide my insecurities, I am boisterous and loud. I use bravado to distract those around me. 2 Hope is the true path of the gods. I am overly positive, constantly spouting platitudes and encouragement. 3 Fire burns in my blood, tempering me. I am quick to anger and forgive, holding my passions tightly. 4 I emulate water’s steady course. I am serene, hoping others take solace from my presence. 5 The stability of earth rules my soul. I am firm in my beliefs and take time to make decisions. 6 The plane of air blows through my mind. I flit through topics, and I see things others miss. 7 Nature echoes uniquely in my soul. I manifest random personality traits of both natural and planar creatures. 8 Hesitation is a weakness and must be rooted out. Experience is everything. Ideal D6 Ideal 1 Destiny. The gods grant everyone the possibility of a great destiny. I must shepherd those around me to reach their full potential. 2 Divinity. I seek the true source of aether so that I might bathe in the presence of the gods. 3 Service. I must teach and train those interested in meditation and self-reflection. 4 Leadership. People are like children, always squabbling. I must make difficult decisions for them. 5 Champion. Life is harsh and I stand up for those in need, even if they do not wish it. 6 Learning. I seek to understand the aetherial waters and unlock the secrets hidden beneath its waves. Bond d6 Bond 1 The planes were once one, and I strive to unite them once more. 2 I seek to save the souls of those who traverse the planes by being their holy mystic. 3 I have a great destiny and am single-minded in my drive to walk my true path. 4 Nature is a distilled form of aether, and to travel its waters is to live in true harmony. 5 I seek to widen all the elemental portals to allow more of the aether to spread. 6 The gods live in the unknown depths of the seas. One day, I will greet them with reverence. Flaw d6 Flaw 1 I am patient, seeking to see the twists and turns of life as they end without interference. 2 I have a sweet and trusting disposition, no matter how cruel or unkind the world has been. 3 I desire to serve the greater good, going to extremes and putting myself in danger unnecessarily. 4 Having gone without for most of my life, I become jealous of those who have things I do not. 5 Everything ends, and our actions don’t matter. I push for acceptance instead of trying to better them. 6 Even the nicest of people are plotting to hurt me, and I live my life waiting to be proven right.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 32048

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

