# Agasha Family - Dragon Clan

**description**: The Agasha family’s teachings cover religious rites, including powerful invocations to the spirits, and the family’s knowledge represents generations of tireless research. But unlike many theologians, their beliefs and methods are ever-evolving like the elements in nature. Although founded by a pacifist, many of their techniques are invaluable in a fight. Once devoted predominantly to mysticism, they now combine it with the practical arts of naturalism and scientific observation to get greater effect than either could achieve alone. In their pursuit of knowledge, the Agasha family’s studies have delved deeply into alchemy, metallurgy, and medicine. Their current traditions blend the practical effects of chemistry and construction with the mystical effects of calling the spirits. Skill Proficiencies: Medicine, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Alchemist’s kit, one artisan tool of your choice. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Sanctified robes, wakizashi, vial pouch (quiver), alchemist’s kit, one artisan tool of your choice, and 8 gp. Background Feature: Life in the Mountains You have lived in the rugged mountains of Dragon lands for much of your life and know the environment and culture well, granting you the following benefits: You know who within your clan has been awarded membership into the Inner Circle of Togashi, although you would not be privy to the secrets of the Inner Circle unless you are also a member. You know more about monastic life and traditions than most other clans, having likely interacted with the Togashi Order throughout your life. Due to the rugged nature of your homeland, you know how to properly prepare mountain flora and wildlife for human consumption. You have a working understanding of many physical phenomena of the natural world and the beauty and dangers present in wild lands. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Dragon Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Agasha Alchemist School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Agasha school of alchemy, make Intelligence and Dexterity your highest ability scores, with Constitution as a tertiary score. Begin in the ritualist class, and select the Artisan archetype at 2nd level, choosing Alchemy for your mystic craft. Focus on choosing invocations that make effective distilled invocations, such as barricade of earth , path to inner peace , and token of memory . Switch to bushi for three levels, selecting the Vanguard archetype at 3rd level to give yourself better capabilities when in the thick of a brawl. Then, put the rest of your levels into ritualist or bushi based on whether you want to emphasize the mystical or martial side of your character. Agasha Mystic School Quick Build If you want to build a character trained in the Agasha tradition of sagely study in the mountains, make Constitution and Wisdom your highest ability scores, with Dexterity as a tertiary score. Begin in the pilgrim class, selecting the Path of Harmony archetype at 2nd level. Then shift to the bushi class for three levels, selecting the Samurai Armsmaster archetype to expand your weapon mastery. From there, put the rest of your levels into pilgrim to gain access to a wide variety of abilities through your externalizations.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

