# Akodo Family - Lion Clan

**description**: The Akodo family trains many of the master strategists and tacticians of the Empire at its legendary war college. Students of its martial schools are trained to be warrior-scholars seeking to understand war and battle in all its complexity; no part of the martial disciplines is too small for their study and no part too large to evade their understanding. Skill Proficiencies: History, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, board or card game. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Resplendent regalia, traveling clothes, wakizashi, calligraphy set, board or card game, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Know the Past, Find the Future You were raised in the Lion Clan, the most famous and expansive military power in Rokugan, granting you the following benefits: You know history quite well, especially as it pertains to military actions, political shifts in power, and various challenges faced by the Emerald Empire over the centuries. You know the current military situation in Rokugan and the lands beyond. You can identify and know the proper purpose of all Rokugani battlefield weapons, even if you are not personally proficient in their use. You know about common military maneuvers and engagements, such as feigned retreats, flank attacks, raids, and sieges. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Lion Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Akodo Commander School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Akodo school of warfare, make Strength and Charisma your highest ability scores, followed by Constitution. Begin in the bushi class for proficiencies, but switch to courtier after one level. At your 3rd level of courtier, select the Investigator archetype to give you insight into your enemies. Select rhetorical flourishes that bolster your allies and remove negative conditions. Return to the bushi class for the rest of your levels, selecting the Samurai Armsmaster archetype to reflect your training in Akodo's traditional method and expand your command capabilities.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

