# Al-Zawira - Non-Rokugani

**description**: A massive center of learning and the heart of the Qamarist Caliphate, Al-Zawira produces some of the finest sages in the world. Amidst its towers, scholars pursue truths of the world, the universe, and human nature, advancing sciences such as chemistry, physics, alchemy, and astronomy. Al-Zawira is renowned for the skill of its physicians as well, who are said to be able to reattach severed limbs and even stir life back into the recently deceased. For over five hundred years since its founding under Caliph Mahmoud ibn Mansur, the rulers of the Qamarist Caliphate have made Al-Zawira their capital. While not the largest city on the continent by population or size, all who cross the King’s River on the Bridge of Boats are sure to be taken in by its grandeur, and its Market of Books is a destination of dreams for any scholar. It is said that if a piece of knowledge exists in the world of mortals, it has passed through this city. Given the size of the Qamarist Caliphate, Al-Zawira is quite cosmopolitan, with residents from the far-flung corners of the Caliphate and beyond. However, the city has a distinct personality all its own as well, for the search for knowledge underpins much of the activity that goes on there. Skill Proficiencies: History, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, any one other artisan tool or mystic implement. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Nehiri, and two other Qamarist languages of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or traveling clothes, dagger, calligraphy set, any one other artisan tool or mystic implement, and 10 gp. Suggested Feats: Fashionable, Merchant’s Streetwise, Translator’s Knowledge. Background Feature: Neutral Party You have certain advantages due to being an outsider who is not implicated in local politics, such as: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your homeland. You know its forms of government, religions, and other organizations, as well as the various factions and individuals of note that strive to control these groups. You know the lay of the land where you grew up extremely well and know many people in that region. You know the trade that you grew up around well, even if you do not practice it yourself. Because you are from outside of Rokugan, members of Rokugani courts and other political organizations view you as being neutral to their conflicts. They do not assume that you favor a particular side, and might go to extra lengths to sway you to theirs if they think you are an asset who might help them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

