# Amazon of Perunalia

**description**: A strong daughter of a mighty nation, you are among the most elite warriors of matriarchal Perunalia. All amazons of Perunalia are female, and all train in the art of archery first and foremost. Regardless of your chief profession, you are trusted to defend the nation in time of need and you enjoy the respect and esteem you earn through service to the Duchy. Skill Proficiencies: History, Intimidation Tool Proficiencies: Woodworker’s tools, one gaming set of your choice Equipment: A set of woodworker’s tools, a quiver with 20 arrows, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a pouch containing 15 gp Feature: Bred to the Bow The care you show to your bow and arrows is unsurpassed. If you spend 1 hour maintaining your weapons and ammunition, for the next 24 hours you can recover all arrows that miss their target by spending 1 minute searching at the end of an encounter. Further, you decorate your arrows with colored fletching that denotes your rank among the amazons. You begin at the lowest rank with white fletching. Every 4 levels, you advance to the next color: green, blue, black, and finally red. You can expect deference and respect from any amazon you outrank, just as you are expected to defer to an amazon who outranks you. Suggested Characteristics Amazons of Perunalia are universally confident and well-educated, but they hold a default assumption of men as the weaker sex with manifest mental and behavioral faults. Amazons are disdainful of men in power because of the long, sad history of patriarchal nations and armies. Beyond their particular assumptions, amazons tend to be shrewd and proud of their skill. d8 Personality Traits 1 I live for the thrill of victory. 2 I admire other cultures with traditions of archery. 3 Anyone who fights with skill deserves my respect, men and women alike. 4 The care I take in maintaining my bow and fashioning my arrows is an important part of archery, and archery is the core of who I am. 5 When I display my bow skill well, I always offer thanks to Perun for his teachings. 6 Men in positions of authority must work hard to earn my trust. 7 I dislike frivolity and nonsense. 8 My nerve is as steady as an arrow’s flight. d6 Ideal 1 Service. The greatest expression of skill is defending the good of one’s fellows. (Good) 2 Fairness. I treat everyone in an even-handed manner until they prove themselves unworthy. (Neutral) 3 Dedication. I adhere to my duty above all. (Any) 4 Glory. I’ll show everyone that I'm the best there ever was. (Chaotic) 5 Rulership. The strongest are meant to rule, and no one is stronger than I. (Evil) 6 Tradition. Our nation thrives because of our strict ways. (Lawful) d6 Bond 1 I will win the tournament at the Duchess’s Fair to make my mark on the nation. 2 When I best a worthy foe, I retrieve an arrowhead from the battle and wear it as a trophy. 3 My bow is a family heirloom and a symbol of my house. 4 All knowledge is power, and I’ll go out of my way to preserve it. 5 I never would have passed my training if not for my closest friend in school. 6 My family fled to Perunalia to escape a powerful enemy. One day I will see that enemy defeated. d6 Flaw 1 I secretly resent the Duchess’s policies, and I’m sympathetic to others that might seek to take control of the Duchy. 2 There is a piece of lore forbidden to me, but I’m obsessed with obtaining it. 3 I can’t let them know how much I resent all the years I’ve sacrificed on my archery training instead of doing what I love. 4 I look down on anyone who lacks skill with a bow. 5 I’m unswerving in my devotion to upholding the Duchess’ law, no matter who broke it. 6 I’ll never admit a fault to a man, and only rarely to another woman.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

