# Ambulant

**description**: Grinders, umbrella menders, nomads, seasonal workers, wayfarers, street actors, thespians, harlequins, puppeteers, carnies, charlatans, relic peddlers, beggars, wandering clerics, students moving from one school to another, professional wanderers, toy makers, tinsmiths, milliners, Norcitans, lacklands, ziganes and caravankers, and all those who spend their lives moving from region to region looking for work or taking their itinerant shows around: these are ambulants. The presence and constant transit of ambulants across the Kingdom’s cities and villages is a common occurrence, and they are mostly viewed with interest and curiosity, as a breath of fresh air in people’s humdrum life. Constantly on the move, these wanderers have very variegated cultures, but also many common traits: the lack of roots, songs and prayers of the road, pleasure in a freer life, and strong sense of communion between travelers, compared to their non-migratory counterparts, the “paisàn”. Skill Proficiencies: Performance, History Tool Proficiencies: A set of artisan's tools (one of your choice) Languages: Racket Equipment: A jewel dedicated to Saint Pathrick, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a pouch containing 15 sp. Feature: Tales of the Road Whatever group, profession, or community you belong to, like any other ambulant, you know a lot of legends, rumors, and tales collected on the road and gathered over the years. Whenever you collect one or more rumors, you get an additional one. You always have advantage on all checks related to finding or traveling on Roads to Nowhere. Suggested Characteristics Ambulants have backgrounds as varied as any “villager”: they can be fascinating blue-eyed Ziganes from the sea; rustic Norcitans who lend their services as wandering butchers; harlequins and puppeteers ever in search of a new square to perform in; formal itinerant bankers; crafty charlatans, or honest tinsmiths. In all of them burns an on-the-road restlessness, not unlike that of sailors... a sedentary existence is too boring to live! d6 Personality Trait 1 I often speak in Racket and use derisive terms or mockery toward the settled-ones, such as "Paisàn". 2 I am reliable and trustworthy. I always find the solution to every problem. 3 I am a restless dreamer, and it's not easy for me to sit still for more than a week in one place. 4 I like to know every single detail of any places I visit. The world of the settled-ones is full of wonders they don't even know about. 5 I indulge in the pleasures of life, and I do not deprive myself of anything. 6 I'm passionate about art and all other creative expressions. I aspire to unravel the secret recipe of a successful performance. 7 I often use fascinating tones, catchy phrases, and stage names, and you'll never see me out of character. 8 I follow my community's fashion and lifestyle, and I do everything I can to distinguish myself from the paisàns. d6 Ideal 1 Brotherhood. Ambulant or settled-one, citizens or peasant, wild or civilized, people are all the same and should get along well. (Good) 2 Respect. Even if strange or convoluted, the customs and the laws of the settled-ones' cities and communities must be respected. (Lawful) 3 Common Sense. There are as many norms and truths as there are human heads, and it is impossible to consider them all: the important thing is to follow common sense. (Chaotic) 4 Self-Interest. All these people are waiting to be conned. And if you do it in style, they'll even say thank you while you scam them. (Evil) 5 Law of the Road. The only law to obey is that of my people: the Law of the Road. (Neutral) 6 Journey. Life is short, and it can be surprising every day. How could you choose to spend your whole existence within the same four walls? (Any) d6 Bond 1 My travelling community is my only family. 2 The people from my home town, which I left decades ago to go in search of some kind of fortune. 3 My community's matriarch, she can see directly into the human heart. 4 The paisán that fooled me. It had never happened to me before! 5 The talented actor who taught me the true art of comedy. 6 The charlatan with a thousand faces. I've already met them several times along the road; up to this day, I don't know what their real name is. d6 Flaw 1 I often envy the simple life of paisáns, and that's why I look at them with spite. 2 I'm nothing but a scoundrel, and I regard others just as fools waiting to be robbed. 3 I have to do things my way. Replace me or deal with it. 4 My scale of values is quite distinct from that of the people around me. 5 Well, yes, I admit it. I might love wine and drugs a bit too much. 6 My only purpose is to get rich, ideally without any kind of effort.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

