# Anarchist of Tolia

**description**: You are a defiant, a freedom fighter, a rebel. You believe in a free and masterless society and you aren’t afraid to fight for it. You believe the independence of the individual to be a virtue that society must embrace. You, as a resident of Tolia, possibly live either in Kanrath or Cyherested; a vampire supremacist city where mortal life has no meaning, or the city of magic where non-casters have no value in society. The tyranny in these cities disgust you, and you are willing to change it or die trying. You’ve either gathered as underground communities in your city, or have become outcasts and gathered in the mountains near your city, regardless, you live with people with similar values and ideologies without a hierarchy. You are an anarchist. Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from; Deception, History, Insight, Sleight of Hand, Stealth, Survival Tool Proficiencies: Thieves’ tools and disguise kit or poisoner’s kit Equipment: A set of common clothes, a silver token used by anarchists of Tolia, and a pouch containing 50 KF/CS Feature: Know Thy Friend As an anarchist of Tolia, you own a small silver token, that shows that you have dedicated your life to the cause, which you carry on your person at all times. When you show your token to other anarchists, they try to find a place for you to stay, and supplies to help you in your adventures. Suggested Characteristics You are opposed to the concept of hierarchy; especially one that condones slavery and tyranny. Whenever you see an innocent being oppressed, you do try to save them from the bullets and bloody hands of violence. Being the enemy of the status quo is more than enough to make you have a grim disposition. d8 Personality Trait 1 I cannot be happy until the hierarchy is abolished. 2 I try to work for society to make it a better place. 3 I am an academic and I use my studies to search for ways we can eschew oppression. 4 Being around other anarchists makes me more cheerful. 5 I am committed to my cause. 6 I like to steal from the rich and give to the poor. 7 I see myself as the hand of the oppressed. 8 I try to keep an open mind about everything, because rejecting thoughts is what tyrants do. d6 Ideal 1 Rebel. I hate tyranny, I want to change the way we live. (Chaotic) 2 Missionary. I try to spread the word about my organization. (Lawful) 3 Peaceful. I help the weak to make their lives better. (Good) 4 Extremist. All is fair to fulfill our cause. (Chaotic) 5 Tyrant Slayer. The best tyrant is a dead one. (Chaotic) 6 Equal. We demand equality, and equality we shall have. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 City rulers killed my loved ones, and I shall have my vengeance. 2 While the poor get poorer, vampires and sorcerers get richer. I’m going to change this disparity. 3 I cannot live in the cities of tyrants, I belong in the wilderness with others that share my cause. 4 If I see people who oppress the weak, I meet them head-on. 5 There is a traitor in our organization and I’m going to find out who this is. 6 I must convert as many people as I can to strengthen our cause. d6 Flaw 1 I sometimes miss my old, fairly comfortable life. 2 I sometimes doubt that we can manage to overthrow the tyrants. 3 Rage takes over me when I see a vampire or a sorcerer. 4 I secretly envy the wealth of tyrants. 5 I secretly love having power over others. 6 I care about being the “hero” more than I care about the cause.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

