# Arbonesse Exile

**description**: You are from the River Court of Arbonesse or one of its far-flung thorpes. Most exiles are elf-blooded or gnomes, but the occasional foundling of another race taken in by exiles is not unheard of. You are fiercely proud of your home and its legacy, despite its declining prominence. At the same time, the exiles are a canny people whose elders pass down lore of the mysterious fey and shadow roads. They are always wary of those strange places where the boundary between worlds grows thin. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Survival Tool Proficiencies: One set of artisan’s tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of cook’s utensils, a carved humanoid bone totem, a set of traveler’s clothes, a hunting trap, and a pouch containing 5 gp Feature: Arbonesse Heritage An elder of Arbonesse passed some of their secret knowledge down to you. You know of one relatively safe fey road that begins in the Arbonesse and leads elsewhere in Midgard, as well as the means to open the way. Work with your GM to determine the road’s destination and possible obstacles. Suggested Characteristics Arbonesse exiles refuse to give up their identity, even in areas where the wider influence of the River Court is nonexistent. Proud and hardy, exiles maintain the traditions passed by their elders and take grave offense to any who try to stifle them. d8 Personality Traits 1 I can always keep a cheerful disposition, no matter what’s going on. 2 Magic of all kinds is a source of constant fascination to me. 3 I’m most at home near large bodies of water, or under the cover of dense tree canopy. 4 I work hard to do any job right the first time. 5 Outsiders aren’t to be trusted. 6 I prefer to do for myself rather than relying on others. 7 I’m leery of places steeped in shadow or darkness. 8 I grow resentful of people who come from thriving settlements. d6 Ideal 1 Revenge. My people will rise again, climbing the bodies of our enemies if necessary. (Evil) 2 Survival. As long as I live to fight another day, there’s hope. (Any) 3 Ancient Law. The law of the River Court endures, even if others fail to recognize it. (Lawful) 4 Community. My survival depends on the efforts of my fellows, and their survival depends on me. (Good) 5 Tradition. We should be guided by the knowledge and experience of our forebears whenever practical. (Neutral) 6 Independence. Remain loyal to oneself before all else. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 An ancient Arbonesse elf looks after me and my family. There’s no one I respect more. 2 I’m searching for a specific ruin with ancient power. 3 I love learning new stories of shadow roads and other magical tales. 4 I hold the fey folk in high regard and avoid offending them. 5 I’ll protect my homestead from any threat. 6 I want to amass wealth and influence, and to rise above my beginnings. d6 Flaw 1 Raiders destroyed my home, and I harbor deep hatred for their kind. 2 My village protected an ancient secret, and that secret has been stolen. 3 I’m quick to think sophisticated people are talking down to me. Nothing angers me faster. 4 I’ll do anything to unlock an ancient or magical secret. 5 I have no respect for people who don’t pull their own weight. 6 Places that might border on other worlds terrify me, and I hate spending time near them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

