# Archivist

**description**: Some of your earliest memories are of the library you called home while you learned to read and write under the tutelage of your mentor. The stacks comforted you, protected you, and took you to lands undreamed of. Now the time has come to turn that knowledge into practical experience, and to record your own journey for posterity. Skill Proficiencies Arcana, Investigation Tool Proficiencies Artisan’s tools (calligrapher’s supplies) Languages Two of your choice Equipment A leather-bound journal full of notes from past research projects, a set of robes, calligrapher’s supplies, 5 sheets of loose paper, a pair of spectacles, and a pouch containing 15 gp Feature: Expert Researcher Your familiarity with libraries and the tomes contained in them is unmatched. If you spend 1 hour studying the available books, grimoires, and codices in an archive, library, or similar collection while researching a specific subject, you can treat any Intelligence-based check result related to that subject of 9 or lower as a 10. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again to research the same subject in the same library. Suggested Characteristics Arcane archivists are most at home in their libraries. Their personalities and motivations reflect their focus, sometimes obsessive, on recorded knowledge and the search for it. Their motives for pursuing a life as an archivist are rarely so straightforward. d8 Personality Trait 1 There is nothing more important than knowledge. It is neither good nor bad. To suggest otherwise is to be closed in mind and thought. 2 I would rather spend time with my nose in a book. I find interacting with people discomfiting. 3 I am fascinated by a specific area of esoteric knowledge. If I find someone who shares that interest, we might become fast friends. 4 My mind is my sanctum. I neglect the needs of my body as secondary, often forgoing meals and bathing, when I’m lost in contemplation and study. 5 I am an observer and chronicler of the journeys, experiences, trials, and tribulations of my companions as viewed from the outside looking in. 6 The path to knowledge is not solely traversed through books and study. To fully learn, you must experience! 7 I find the blind faith of religions, cults, and their ilk perturbing, and I ask endless questions of those who profess such beliefs. 8 Because I believe that a sound body is essential for a clear intellect, I relish physical activity and exercise. d6 Ideal 1 Purity . The truth of a matter is subject to the whims of the historian. Facts are pure and incontrovertible. (Any) 2 Focus . Precision and concentration: These are the keys to successful completion of my objectives. (Lawful) 3 Objectivity . Action and inaction have consequences far beyond the immediate future. The appearance of one morality does not preclude the emergence of another as time goes on. (Neutral) 4 Objectification . I use resources—including companions, allies, and bystanders—as I need them to further my ends. (Evil) 5 Preservation . Life is knowledge, and knowledge is life. Preserving life in all its forms is paramount to a civilized culture. (Good) 6 Observation . I will participate only as a last resort. Events, to be true and accurate, must unfold without interference. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 I always keep a journal. It grounds me to my past and organizes my thoughts. Without it, I would be lost. 2 I carefully consider my options before making any decision of importance. 3 I am a student—in thoughts, actions, and words—ahead of all other roles and responsibilities. 4 A quill, given to me be my mentor during our first lessons, is precious to me above all other things. 5 I am bound to fulfill a sacred duty to a university or a tutor that started me on my path. 6 I stole a priceless grimoire from my patron, and they have learned of my theft. d6 Flaw 1 I am protective of all that I have learned. I have sacrificed much for it, and it is mine to do with as I please. 2 I have found the one true way, the path to enlightenment. I share my teachings with all who can hear me, whether they want to follow the path or not. 3 I place my safety ahead of the welfare of all others. How else will my knowledge be recorded and shared with future generations? 4 I was once confined in a prison of my own making. Never again will I limit myself to learning without experiencing. 5 I will not destroy a book, tome, grimoire, or text of any kind. To lose knowledge is an abomination. 6 I share the knowledge I have worked so hard to attain with all who seek it. A question asked is a question that deserves to be answered.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 1

