# Asako Family - Phoenix Clan

**description**: The Asako are a quiet family, viewed as being content to follow their scholarly and philosophical pursuits while the Isawa drive the goals of the Phoenix. The Asako prize knowledge, but they prize wisdom even more, and they use their studies to advance their spiritual evolution as well as their political agendas. The Asako serve as courtiers for the Phoenix, and they are much in demand as court scholars and tutors across the Empire. Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, any one other artisan tool. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Courtly Rokugani, Asako cipher, and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes, wakizashi, calligraphy set, any one other artisan tool of your choice, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Spiritual Knowledge You were raised in the Phoenix Clan with access to some of the most secretive and sacred lore in Rokugan, granting you the following benefits: You are familiar with the religious practices of Rokugan, such as the rites practiced by various priesthoods, the invocations of ritualists, the Teachings of Shinsei, and even the traditions that existed before the Empire’s foundation, such as the traditions of the Isawa and the ritual practices of the people who dwell in the Dawn Peaks. You know some of the most significant spirits that reside across the land from stories or perhaps even personal interaction. You have an instinctive feeling for when the spirits of a place have become imbalanced or disquieted. You know the names and locations of all major shrines in Rokugan. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Phoenix Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Asako Loremaster School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Asako school of lore, make Intelligence and Wisdom your highest ability scores, with Dexterity as your next priority. Begin in the courtier class, choosing the Investigator archetype at 3rd level. Focus on rhetorical flourishes that give you access to information and undermine your enemies. If you want to emphasize your character’s quest toward Enlightenment, consider taking two levels of pilgrim for powerful externalizations, selecting the Path of Harmony at your 2nd level of pilgrim. Otherwise, you could take three levels of shinobi to create a character dedicated to hunting down practitioners of heretical magic, selecting the Infiltrator specialization at your 3rd level of shinobi.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

