# Athenian Mage

**description**: You belong to the most magically advanced city in the realm. Magic is part of everyday life, from the simple and humble civilian life all the way to the tallest wizard towers in your home. You have been educated by the experienced scholars of the Blue Archive, been apprenticed under a powerful mage or simply used the vast resources of the city in order to educate yourself. The value of knowledge is branded onto your mind. Study of the tapestry of the cosmos is paramount to all mages. As such your upbringing involves the appreciation of individual hard work and research, alongside cleverness and creative drive to follow one's own path as a spellcaster. Arcane Specialization Throughout your studies as a mage you have chosen a favorite subject of study. Roll a d8 or choose from the options in the table below to determine your role: d8 Specialization d8 Specialization 1 Combat Magic 5 Divining Skills 2 Support Magic 6 Time and Space Magic 3 Interplanar Studies 7 Healing or Necromantic Magic 4 Enchantments 8 Illusion Magic Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and choose one from Arcana or Religion Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan's tools and Alchemist's Supplies Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: An Athenian banner, a bottle of black ink, a quill, 3 rolls of blank parchment, a tome containing lore from your chosen arcane specialization, Alchemist's Supplies, a set of Common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 15 gp Feature: Athenian Station You have a reputation by mere fact of belonging to your home's spellcaster population. Simply by presenting your station as an student of the Blue Archive, an apprentice of a powerful mage or an upcoming practitioner of the arcane with enough talent to stand out amongst the many magically talented people of your home town you can enlist the help of interested parties, as long as they have may have a curiosity regarding the realm of magic. You can request an audience with any arcane-inclined communities or individuals. In exchange for comparing notes and sharing knowledge you can obtain sanctuary for yourself and your companions. As part of this deal you can work as an alchemist or arcane mentor, which will earn you a salary of 10 gp per week, which will enable you to maintain a comfortable lifestyle between adventures. Athenian Mage Spells Prerequisite: Spellcasting or Pact Magic class feature For you, the Spells on the Athenian Mage Spells table are added to the spell list of your Spellcasting class. (If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these Spells are added to all of them.) Athenian Mage Spells Spell Level Spells Cantrip Eldritch Blast, Mind Sliver 1st Armor of Agathys, Magic Missile 2nd Ray of Enfeeblement, Tasha's Mind Whip 3rd Leomund's Tiny Hut, Counterspell 4th Leomund's Secret Chest, Mordenkainen's Private Sanctum 5th Legend Lore, Wall of Force Your magic, influenced by the goddess of Wisdom, is always tinted blue and taking the appearance of ethereal feathers, like the visage of a beautiful owl. When you cast beneficial Spells on your allies, they appear momentarily surrounded by blue wings, as if protected by the symbol of the goddess. Suggested Characteristics The Athenian magocracy is a competitive and intense context to develop one's talents, full of brilliant minds, arcane talent and more than a little arrogance. All of these facets of life shape the ideals and ways of life of the mages of Athens. d8 Personality Trait 1 I constantly come up with grand magical theories that I can’t wait to tell other people about. 2 I tend to talk about magic as if everyone understands it, and cannot comprehend the ignorance of those who do not. 3 I'm dismissive of those who don't care to understand magic or the amazing fabric of reality beyond our plane. 4 I have no patience for ridiculous superstitions about magic. 5 I am extremely proud of the school I attended or the master who taught me, and will boast about it often. 6 My place as a mage is more important than nobility and riches. What good is gold and fancy names when the greatest power in existence is in my reach? 7 My Master taught me the value of secrets, I keep them very well and have a few of my own. 8 When exposed to some new type or aspect of magic, I can’t help but try to figure out what it does and how it works. d6 Ideal 1 Knowledge Seeker. The best way to grow and improve is by acquiring knowledge. (Neutral) 2 Logic. I am a student of logic itself. Emotions, ambition and desires must not cloud our judgement in our pursuit of magic. (Lawful) 3 No Limits. With magic, anything is possible. The possibilities are inherently infinite! (Chaotic) 4 The Good of the Realm. Magic, like any other power, should be wielded to improve the lives of others. (Good) 5 The Best Self. The only way to become the best version of myself is through the study and research of magic. (Any) 6 Power. My talents as a spellcaster are my path to conquest and domination. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I had a rival all throughout my training, we still compete. 2 My life's work, my research and my scholarly pursuits will always come first. 3 I am utterly loyal to my master, everything else comes second. 4 I have made magical discoveries that would make me and everyone around me a target if the wrong people find out about it. 5 I idolize a historical magic user, and measure my accomplishments against theirs. 6 I had a romantic relationship with a fellow student, I still love them. d6 Flaw 1 I believe that the world would be better off if mages were in charge of everything. 2 I look down on anyone who was not properly trained in the magic they wield. 3 My loyalty ultimately lies with my school or my master. 4 I am easily tempted by the promise of knowledge. 5 I handle criticism of my knowledge and field of study very poorly. 6 I can get so distracted by the mystery and wonder of magic, that I can forget I’m supposed to be fighting that other Wizard. 

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

