# Ayrissian Magnate

**description**: Ayrissian Magnate “Only the truly powerful and refined are worthy adversaries to test my business acumen. Everyone else is but an obstacle to my mercantile greatness.” You are a skilled and cunning merchant or privateer of the Kingdom of Ayris. You use finely honed trading skills to further Ayris’s power through commerce and tact, knowing that each situation may require a delicate touch. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: Jeweler’s kit Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A jeweler’s kit, a ledger of Ayrissian laws and regulations, a stunning map of the Starlight Seas with trade routes clearly marked, a set of fine clothing, and a pouch containing 25 gp Bonus Trait: Friendly Ear Officer Progression: If you use the optional Seafarer Advancement Rules (see chapter 7), you increase your officer station rank by one in your choice of first mate or quartermaster Feature: Ruthless Negotiations Your reputation as a shrewd merchant and negotiator precedes you. You can exploit legal loopholes and apply pressure during intense diplomatic trade negotiations. You have advantage on Insight and Persuasion checks when interacting with rivals in matters of trade. Additionally, you can use your skills to mediate disputes and foster diplomatic ties. Suggested Characteristics The merchants of the Aetherial Expanse are often the lifeblood of the seas. They are usually skilled diplomats who can pivot their persona to suit different situations. They are at home on the seas as much as they are in trade negotiations, and tend to view others based on their perceived wealth and prosperity. Personality Trait d8 Personality 1 Satisfaction is paramount. I take pride in providing quality. 2 I have never been comfortable with the status quo and am driven to expand my influence. 3 I need to stay informed. I always seek new information, practices, and strategies. 4 I weigh every decision carefully for risks, ensuring I’m prepared for any circumstances. 5 I love rarities and enjoy the challenge of acquiring exotic goods. 6 I come from a long line of traders. I strive to uphold my family name – at least in public. 7 My natural skill at business has allowed me to indulge in a life of leisure and pleasure, sometimes to excess. 8 Numbers are magic to me. I have a deep understanding of financial matters and analyze investments with precision. Ideal d6 Ideal 1 Innovation. I seek to continually push and challenge the boundaries of what can be accomplished. 2 Unity. Trade and commerce foster greater understanding between cultures and realms. It is a true bridge to promote unity. 3 Tradition. The values and traditions of the past guide me unerringly toward truth and success. 4 Discovery. Uncovering lost or hidden treasures is my true passion. The thrill of discovery is worth any struggle. 5 Resilience. I believe my true character is shown when I persevere through adversity. 6 Prosperity. Wealth is best enjoyed and shared with others. I use my wealth to uplift those around me. bond d6 Bond 1 I’m determined to honor my mentor’s name by achieving great success. 2 I have come to possess a strange magical object. I must learn more about its origins and powers. 3 It is my purpose to bring rivals together so we may all thrive. 4 I am fiercely protective of my employees and work to ensure their success, even at the cost of my own. 5 Past failures haunt me, and I am driven to seek redemption or make amends. 6 I have gained knowledge of a terrible secret. I must protect this information at all costs to keep it from the wrong hands. Flaw d6 Flaw 1 I am consumed with the need to maintain my reputation. 2 The idea of failure terrifies me and sometimes paralyzes me with indecision. 3 I am fixated on material possessions and tend to neglect important relationships as a result. 4 Change is frightening, and I resist it even when the world adapts around me. 5 I have a deep distrust of other’s intentions. It is difficult for me to believe in the goodwill of others. 6 I am addicted to the thrill of risk-taking and seek out situations that provide an adrenaline rush.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 32048

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

