# Bayushi Family - Scorpion Clan

**description**: The lead family of the Scorpion Clan, the Bayushi family carries on the tradition of its founder with all of his legendary dramatic flair. Smiling behind masks of oni, arachnid mandibles, or threatening fangs, the Bayushi family are perhaps the ultimate power brokers within the Emerald Empire, wheeling and dealing with the courtiers of other clans to see to it that the Empire continues to function. Students trained in their methods of courtly intrigue know to project confidence, danger, and allure in equal measure, keeping rivals wary yet making sure they understand it is a Scorpion they need to see if they want to move their agenda forward at court. This fine balance is considered the ultimate goal for a Bayushi courtier: not to be adored or even feared, but to be so indispensable that what others think of you does not matter. Skill Proficiencies: Stealth, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or musical instrument, any one tool of subterfuge. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Courtly Rokugani, and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia, unremarkable garb, wakizashi, mask, any one artisan tool or musical instrument, any one tool of subterfuge, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Secrets and Subtleties You were raised in the Scorpion Clan and have a deep knowledge of the overt and covert sides of politics, granting you the following benefits: You know about the general state of political affairs between the clans. You know the major political players on the national stage, as well as their perceived strengths and weaknesses. You are aware of the most substantial criminal cartels in the Emerald Empire, especially as their interests overlap or conflict with those of the Scorpion Clan. You know about poisons, tools of assassination, and other less-than-legal means of pursuing goals. You know the state of court matters in the Imperial Capital. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Scorpion Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Bayushi Manipulator School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Bayushi school of courtly intrigue, make Charisma and Wisdom your highest ability scores, with Dexterity as a third priority. Begin in the courtier class, selecting the Diplomat archetype at 3rd level. If you want to be able to fight your own duels, switch to the duelist class and select the Deathdancer archetype at your 3rd level of duelist. Otherwise, take three levels of shinobi to boost your skills at subterfuge, selecting the Infiltrator archetype at your 3rd level of shinobi. Put the rest of your levels into courtier to secure your mastery of social situations.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

