# Beast Hunter

**description**: Growing up, the menacing presence of the Scourge loomed over your life in the city. The beasts terrified you, destroyed your homes, and took away people you loved. Driven by vengeance, fear, or a desire for justice, you chose to become a hunter. The Church, a mentor, or the Radiant Order taught you the ways of the hunt, giving you the knowledge and skills needed to defend your city and yourself. Whether you were once a simple citizen turned protector or a seasoned veteran of the First War hardened by countless battles, you have become an essential line of defense against the darkness. Skill Proficiencies: Choose one between Acrobatic or Athletics; and one between Medicine or Survival Tool Proficiencies: Herbalism kit Equipment: A set of common clothes, a trophy from a beast you've slain, a hunter’s kit (includes 20 lead bullets, a silvered dagger, a flare, and a silver flask), a healer’s kit, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Born of the Hunt Your continuous battles against the beasts have fortified your body and mind against the horrors of the Scourge. When an aberration or beast forces you to make a saving throw against the frightened condition, you gain a bonus on saving throws equal to your proficiency bonus. Additionally, you share a strong bond with fellow hunters, allowing you to request favors from them. Suggested Characteristics As a Beast Hunter, you have dedicated your life to combating the Scourge and the monsters it creates. Your constant exposure to the horrors of the plague has hardened you, yet beneath the cold exterior, you harbor a deep compassion for those who suffer from it. D8 Personality Trait 1 I keep my emotions under control, for I fear the day I lose control over them and my humanity. 2 I am stoic, rarely showing any signs of distress. The beasts smell fear. 3 I have a crude sense of humor. Laughter keeps the fear at bay. 4 I am haunted by the beasts I have slain. 5 I am deeply spiritual. I believe the Church is our only hope for salvation. 6 I value strength above all else. The weak will not survive. 7 I am always alert. Danger can appear at any moment. 8 I am fiercely protective of my fellow citizens. D6 Ideal 1 Protection. It is my duty to protect the innocent from the Scourge. (Good) 2 Anger. The beasts must pay for the lives they've taken. (Chaotic) 3 Faith. I trust in the Church. Their wisdom guides my blade. (Lawful) 4 Survival. The most important thing is to survive another night. (Neutral) 5 Cunning. Understanding my prey is key to trapping, torturing and otherwise defeating them. (Evil) 6 Courage. I must stand tall in the face of fear. Only then can I inspire others to do the same. (Good) D6 Bond 1 The Church trained me and I owe them my life. 2 I hunt to avenge my loved ones taken by the Scourge. 3 I fight to protect the people of my neighborhood. 4 I am hunting a specific beast that took a part of me. 5 My weapon is a symbol of my duty and a keepsake from a mentor. 6 The war veterans taught me everything I know about fighting. I owe them a great debt. D6 Flaw 1 I have a reckless streak that often gets me into trouble. 2 I struggle with the brutal nature of the hunt, and fear it's changing me. 3 I am overly suspicious of everyone and everything. 4 I carry a deep guilt for those I couldn't save. 5 I am obsessively hunting a particular beast, disregarding all else. 6 I harbor a deep-seated fear of losing my humanity in my bestial fury.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

