# Bemmean Scholar

**description**: Bemmea, capital city of the Magocracy of Allain, is the jewel of magical study in Midgard. You walked its ley‑infused streets and studied among the gleaming spires that touch the sky. During your time in the arcane city, you ate, drank, slept, and breathed magic, and now you carry that legacy into the world. Students with no arcane aptitude are rare, but nonmagical scholars do arise from Bemmea's crackling skyline. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Investigation Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A book of lore, a set of fine clothes, five sheets of parchment, a quill and inkwell, and a pouch containing 15 gp Focus of Study: Years of study at one of the many prestigious academies in Bemmea has earned you specialized knowledge of one exotic subject. You can work with your GM to determine the exact nature of your focus or choose one from the table below. d8 Focus of Study 1 A creature type or tag (such as aberration or shapechanger) 2 Magic items 3 A school of magic 4 Shadow Realm 5 Fey roads 6 Ley lines 7 Runes and glyphs 8 Gods and masks Feature: Esoteric Education When you encounter an example of your focus, you automatically recall some useful fact about it. Even subtle phenomena or hidden creatures don't escape your notice for long. If you spend 8 hours in the vicinity of your focus of study, you pick up on telltale clues and signs that reveal its general presence. This doesn't pierce disguises or reveal its exact location, and you must investigate by normal or magical means to pinpoint it. Suggested Characteristics The citizens of Bemmea are fiercely proud of their accumulated knowledge, and many are reluctant to share their hard-won prize with outsiders. Bemmeans are keenly aware of laws and often exhibit strange quirks of behavior or speech that seem almost superstitious but have an actual, legal basis in their home. d8 Personality Traits 1 I won't drink healing potions at dusk unless it's a matter of life or death. 2 Those with no magical talent aren't worth my time, and divine spellcasters only slightly less so. 3 I'm most at home while studying or lecturing others, and I'm horribly uncomfortable anywhere else. 4 I never pass up the chance to share some scrap of trivia regarding my focused studies. If a good opportunity doesn't present itself, I'll make one. 5 I take time every day to cleanse foreign influences from spellbooks, holy symbols, or magical items. 6 I constantly note the surrounding terrain or the layout of construction, looking for magical significance. 7 When I encounter a new creature, I get lost in gathering information and noting observations. 8 I sometimes take strange, roundabout routes when I travel from place to place. d6 Ideal 1 Compliance. Rules exist for a reason. We must follow them, and punish those that don't. (Lawful) 2 Greater Good. Sometimes we must sacrifice personal convenience for the good of others. (Good) 3 Stability. The world constantly veers toward extremes; the knowledge exists to keep it on an even keel. (Neutral) 4 Preservation. We enjoy great knowledge because those who came before passed it down. We must follow their example. (Any) 5 Forbidden Knowledge. Proscribed lore hides the key to true power. (Evil) 6 Free Information. Secrets are destructive; knowledge is the birthright of all. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I unleashed something during my time studying, and I know I must face it some day. 2 The academy is the only real home I've ever known. 3 I learned a terrible secret while studying, and I'm searching for a way to defeat it before it's too late. 4 One day the mighty mages of Bemmea will look up to me in awe. 5 One teacher at the academy where I studied saw my potential and gave me a second chance. Some day I'll repay the favor. 6 When I'm ready, I'll take students of my own and pass on what I've learned. d6 Flaw 1 While studying, I broke an esoteric law that seemed harmless at the time. If anyone finds out, there will be hell to pay. 2 I brought ruin upon my mentor so I could escape with a piece of secret lore. 3 My curiosity quashes my fear. One day that'll be the death of me. 4 I stole the identity and position of another to enter the academy. 5 No matter how hard I study or how much I achieve, my family never seems satisfied. 6 I become intensely jealous of anyone who commands stronger magic than I can.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

