# Bhavyatapura - Non-Rokugani

**description**: The central region of the Ivory Kingdoms is dominated by a vast plateau known as the Sonagiri, or "Golden Mountain." Ringed by soaring, snowcapped mountains and cut by the mighty Heeratand, or "River of Diamonds," the expansive and fertile Sonagiri is the most densely populated part of the Ivory Kingdoms. Bhavyatapura, the "City of Spendor," occupies the Heeratand in the center of the Sonagiri. Although they are collectively known as Sheelavaan, which simply means “urbane,” the people of Bhavyatapura are diverse in the extreme, comprising a multitude of ethnicities, social castes, languages, religious beliefs, and cultural backgrounds. As their name implies, the Sheelavaan are generally sophisticated, gregarious, and eloquent. They are used to living in the cramped confines of a massive city; many find the rural countryside and wilderness areas quite off-putting. Most Sheelavaan are accustomed to bargaining and cajoling their way through a complex web of barter economies and currency systems, a skill that they readily apply to nearly any sort of commercial, social, or cultural interaction. They also have a tendence to learn a few languages, an important skill when living in a place where the dominant tongue may change several times along the length of a single street. Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool of your choice, vehicles (land). Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Ivindi, and any one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or sanctified vestments or traveling clothes or unremarkable garb, dagger, any one tool, and 7 gp. Suggested Feats: Fashionable, Impromptu Duel Coach, Merchant’s Streetwise. Background Feature: Neutral Party You have certain advantages due to being an outsider who is not implicated in local politics, such as: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your homeland. You know its forms of government, religions, and other organizations, as well as the various factions and individuals of note that strive to control these groups. You know the lay of the land where you grew up extremely well and know many people in that region. You know the trade that you grew up around well, even if you do not practice it yourself. Because you are from outside of Rokugan, members of Rokugani courts and other political organizations view you as being neutral to their conflicts. They do not assume that you favor a particular side, and might go to extra lengths to sway you to theirs if they think you are an asset who might help them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

