# Blacksmith

**description**: Every rusty sword you find at the bottom of a dungeon, every piece of armour that has saved its wearer from a piercing arrow, every spear tip, dagger, and shield, all were made by blacksmiths. The smith holds a unique position in society. Depending on where you are in the world, iron and steel may be rare. Your work might be a practical necessity, or the height of fine art and luxury. You create the weapons and armour that keep people safe, but also keys, horseshoes, lanterns, and nails. Without you, things fall apart. You might be the only blacksmith in your town or village. You might be part of a guild, a clan, or school. What would prompt your character to give up a stable trade and become an adventurer? Perhaps you seek ancient smithing techniques, or to find rare materials. Perhaps you want to test your mettle, and your metal. Maybe you didn't want to pay to join the guild, and were forced out of town, or perhaps you just grew bored of a simple life. Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, Athletics Tool Proficiencies: Smith's Tools and Leatherworker's Tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of common clothes, Smith's Tools, a sledgehammer, a leather apron, pair of elbow-length leather gloves, a merchant's scale and a pouch containing 5 gp. d6 Smithing Specialization 1 Weapons 2 Armor 3 Coins 4 Keys 5 Mechanics 6 Jewelry Feature: Discerning Eye You are able to discern if metal weapons or armor are damaged, poor quality, or overpriced. You can assess the value of any mundane weapon or metalwork, recognise smithing tools and techniques that belong to other cultures and their uses. Additionally, you recognize the environmental effects of a forge, allowing you to identify if an area has been utilized to perform a smith's work. Suggested Characteristics Blacksmiths are pillars of the community. In times of trouble they help people rebuild homes, arm themselves for battle, and improve existing defenses. In times of peace, they provide much-needed trade, work, and pride in a job well done. d8 Personality Trait 1 I cannot abide subpar craftsmanship. 2 I am as tough as the metal I work with. 3 I am more at home at a forge than at a fancy party or dinner. 4 I can relate everything back to my work. 5 I am always thinking of new designs and techniques. 6 I am uncomfortable talking about anything other than smithing. 7 I'm more likely to study an ancient automaton than attack it. 8 I take meticulous care of my tools, and don't let others touch them. d6 Ideal 1 Work. A job well done is its own reward. (Law) 2 Charity. My work should be shared with all - need a blade? I'll make one. (Good) 3 Proliferation. Everyone should own a weapon, ideally one of mine. (Chaotic) 4 Fame. I won't stop until everyone knows my name and my work. (Any) 5 Coin. I quit my job as a smith because I could make more money as an adventurer. (Neutral) 6 Knowledge. I seek the lost smithing techniques of ancient civilisations. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I will never forget the master who taught me my trade. 2 My home town is the most important place in the world to me. 3 I owe my success to the guild. 4 My work will outlive me. It must be perfect. 5 Everything I do, I do for my family. 6 I compare everything I do to the great masters of old. d6 Flaw 1 My work is perfect, which is why I overcharge as much as I can get away with. 2 I only work with the best materials, no matter how desperately we need repairs. 3 I don't pay my full tithe to the guild, and never have. 4 I'd do anything to get my hands on rare materials, even theft. 5 I get offended when anyone's work is compared to mine. 6 My temper burns as hot as my forge.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

