# Blood Sister

**description**: You were brought up in the service of the Red Goddess Marena in one of her temples, likely from a young age. As a member of the Blood Sisters, you were accorded respect and often fear on account of your status if your temple was located within the Principalities. Beyond Morgau's borders, however, the goddess' worship would have been forbidden and you would have honored her in secret. You are not necessarily a cleric—the Red Sisterhood contains plenty of lay worshippers too — but you are adept at performing bloody sacrifices in Marena's honor and are well-versed in her Scarlet Commandments and other holy texts. You are no stranger to orgiastic rites honoring her as the goddess of lust, and if you served in Cantri Abbey, you may have learned the art of midwifery from working in the Cradle. From time to time you may have been called upon to mete out punishment to those who transgressed against the goddess' rules or the laws of the Blood Kingdom. Now you have left your temple to strike out on your own. Perhaps you have tired of the endless bloodshed the Red Goddess demands and have abandoned her worship? Or maybe you were sent forth by your temple's high priestess to evangelise in Marena's name and bring new converts into the fold? Skill Proficiencies: Medicine, Religion Tool Proficiencies: Disguise Kit Languages: One of your choice Equipment: Holy symbol of Marena, a copy of the Book of Holy Lust or the Scarlet Commandments, blood red vestments, a human skull stained with ochre, a set of common clothes, a sacrificial knife, and a belt pouch containing 15 gp. Feature: Fearful Respect When you travel openly as a Blood Sister within the Principalities, you will be afforded hospitality by the local people who both fear and respect you. You will be offered a decent meal, wine or beer, and a warm bed for the night at the village inn, and you will be granted an audience with the local ruler if you need one. Outside Morgau, you can give the secret hand signals and pass phrases needed to be granted safe haven and free healing at the Red Goddess' hidden temple in the city. Suggested Characteristics Blood Sisters have a dark past as servants of the Red Goddess and this is often reflected in their personalities. Ideals and bonds will be shaped by whether or not a Sister is still a member of the cult, or has renounced the Red Goddess' teachings. A Blood Sister's flaws are sometimes linked to the tenets and practices of Marena's worship; sometimes a ritual act becomes a vice in which she takes twisted pleasure, or an obsession over which she has little control. d8 Personality Traits 1 When you have seen as many terrible things as I have, you make the most of every happy moment. 2 I am afforded respect wherever I go, and rightly so. 3 Being part of the Sisterhood has made it hard for me to connect with people in the outside world. 4 I flirt with others shamelessly to get what I want. 5 It is hard to win my trust, but once you have it, I will stick by you through thick and thin. 6 I take pleasure in inflicting pain on others. 7 Creatures of the night hold no fear for me. It's people I am wary of. 8 I often prefer my own company to that of others. d6 Ideal 1 Might. The Elders are our rightful rulers. The common folk are but cattle to feed our dark masters. (Evil) 2 Greater Good. I will do whatever I can to stop more innocent blood being spilt. (Good) 3 Tradition. The Scarlet Commandments show us the one true path. (Lawful) 4 Free Will. My time of taking orders is over—I'm in control of my own life now. (Chaotic) 5 People. I care more about my friends and family than the teachings of the Goddess. (Neutral) 6 Faith. The Red Goddess guides my actions and grants me ever-increasing strength and magical power. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 Someday I will return home to be with my vampire lover. 2 I have turned my back on the Red Sisterhood and seek redemption. 3 I will do anything to keep my family safe from harm. 4 I owe a debt to Lord Fandorin, Baron of Doresh, which must be repaid by the Winter Solstice. 5 I have a duty to the high priestess of my temple to spread the word of the Red Goddess wherever I go. 6 I have an ancient copy of the Song of Blood and Winter that reveals the true words of Marena before they were corrupted by heretical priestesses. I must keep it safe. d6 Flaw 1 The sight of blood is abhorrent to me. 2 I am addicted to sex and get easily distracted when I'm with people I find physically attractive. 3 I yearn to feel a vampire's teeth sink into my neck. 4 I am a sinner and must punish myself constantly. My back is covered with a lattice of scars. 5 I worry that I cannot hold my dark urges back forever. 6 I live in fear that one day the Mother Abbess will track me down and punish me.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

