# Born Leader

**description**: Some people are just born with the natural talents of leadership. They exude charisma, excel at commanding others to follow, and just get things done. Born Leader Some people have a natural affinity for leadership and positions of authority. You are charismatic, adored by followers, and have an insatiable drive to accomplish goals. You are respected (or feared) by those below your station, and they follow your lead with blind devotion. As such, you are typically in a position of leadership, whether in politics or in the military, depending on your skill set. Skill Proficiencies : Insight, Persuasion Languages : Two of your choice Tool Proficiencies : One type of artisan’s tools Equipment : A set of artisan’s tools of your choice, a melee weapon of your choice, a set of ornate clothes, and a family heirloom of great importance to you. Feature: Glib Tongue You are gifted with a silver tongue. All of your Charisma (Persuasion) checks are made at advantage. Suggested Characteristics A born leader is accustomed to being followed, listened to, and often outright obeyed. Typically extroverted, a born leader enjoys the responsibility of speaking for his people (or allies) and making decisions. Typically a born leader is striving to complete some goal or support an ideal. D8 Personality Trait 1 I get more accomplished before noon than most folks do all day. 2 If we work together as a team, there is nothing we can’t accomplish. 3 Anything worth doing is worth overdoing. 4 When all is said and done, more must be done than said. 5 When someone passes on to the great beyond, few are remembered for their money, but many are remembered for their deeds. 6 Some are followers, and some are leaders. I’ll show you why. 7 Let’s get the flock moving in the right direction. 8 Is there anything I can do for you to make the situation better? D6 Ideal 1 Diplomacy . The answer to any conundrum can be ascertained through thoughtful discussion and compromise. (Good) 2 Structure . Rules are essential to a smooth functioning of society. (Lawful) 3 Chaos . We will take what is ours, and let the gods sort out who is right or wrong. (Chaotic) 4 Arbiter . Only an impartial party can solve our differences. (Neutral) 5 Strength . Only the strong survive. The weak are killed and eaten! (Evil) 6 Action . The butter won’t churn itself. (Any) D6 Bond 1 I will do whatever is needed to protect my community. 2 Rules are made to be followed. 3 I owe a great debt to another. 4 I have a tremendous admiration—borderline obsession—for another great local leader. 5 My sleep is often disrupted by visions of my true destiny. I shall unite an unknown group of people against a common enemy, and become their leader. 6 Without the adoration of my subjects, I have nothing. D6 Flaw 1 Money drives more than the economy. Those who control the coin, control the people. 2 I will stop at nothing to achieve my goals, regardless of who I tread on. 3 A promise is just a way to get somebody to agree to something in your interests. 4 I once led my troops into a horrific slaughter, and only I survived. I swear to avenge their deaths, even if it rightly costs my own life. 5 My overzealous admiration for another often puts me in questionable situations. 6 I have no desire to get dirty and do any actual work. I much prefer to have my minions tend to those undesirable tasks.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 18098

**publisher**: Goodman Games

**book**: The Fey Sisters' Fate (FEF 2)

