# Brawler

**description**: In a Kingdom where brawls are as widespread as games of dice, brawlers love nothing better than constantly throwing themselves into fistfights and scuffles, which they often provoke deliberately. Demonstrating their strength and arrogance is the brawlers’ idea of fun, and the lifestyle they have chosen. Skill Proficiencies: Intuition, Performance Tool Proficiencies: Two types of gaming set Equipment: A brawl trophy (roll an additional Memorabilia), a map with a list of all his hometown’s Dives, a set of common clothes, and a pouch containing 15 sp. Feature: Brawler You acquired full mastery of the knowledge of taverns and inns, the "battlefield" where the sacred art of brawling was born. All the revelry and the bare-handed fightings made you the formidable brawler and the opponent of rare hubris you are today. You gain 1 additional move slot. Suggested Characteristics A full-blown champion of slaps and squabbles, arm wrestling and other dive games, the brawler wallows like a fish in the glittering sea of challenges and nocturnal free-for-alls, often drawing the highest bets, but also the most aggressive kingpins. d6 Personality Trait 1 I look for every opportunity available to stir things up and slap somebody in the face. 2 I'm not the one causing troubles, but every time there's one around, I can't seem to back out. 3 It might sound presumptuous, but I never miss an opportunity to declare myself superior to someone in something. 4 There is nothing I wouldn't do to keep my honor and my Notoriety. 5 I'm the biggest trash-talking showboat of the Kingdom. 6 I could spend the rest of my days eating and drinking the hell out of this tavern! 7 I do my best but I can't resist attractive people, and my actions unfortunately cause all sorts of counter-reactions. 8 Lazy as I am, I still work hard to mooch a couple of pints and a meal every day. d6 Ideal 1 Integrity. Defending my honor and the honor of others is the most important thing. (Good) 2 Glory. I am looking for glory indeed, but also admiration. (Lawful) 3 Revelry. My only goal is to live a wild life of revelry and fun. (Chaotic) 4 Profit. I want to line my pockets with losers' memorabilia and gambling money. (Evil) 5 Victory. I am constantly seeking people's approval. (Neutral) 6 Full Belly. Life is just too complicated already. It'd make much more sense to think about filling your stomach and emptying your bladder only. (Any) d6 Bond 1 The first person who knocked me down, making me understand that there’s always someone stronger. 2 I’ll have my revenge on the brawler who dared to play dirty, breaking the rules of honor of the brawl. 3 The champion who defeated me at the Blessed Ignorance Fair. 4 I miss my old companions. I had to leave them when the damn guards put that bounty on my head 5 Dulcinea, the love of my life: although we've met only once, you've already stolen my heart. 6 The old hermit who welcomed me when I was nothing but a lonely runaway, and taught me the legendary Calloused Hand technique. d6 Flaw 1 My pride has no limit. 2 I've got tremendous appetites, and all I think about is having them satisfied. 3 I'm a compulsive liar. 4 D'you wanna know what my biggest flaw is? Well, I just can't stop repeating this question over and over to myself, and every time I have a different answer! 5 Muddy boots on the table, knife between the teeth, dirty nails picking the nose: what... is it really that disgusting? 6 Some might say I continuously harass others just to get a good brawl started.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

