# Calamac Ordu - Non-Rokugani

**description**: The Calamac Ordu is every bit as large, prominent, and wealthy as their long-time rivals, the Menghes. The head of the Calamac family is Calamac Mala, a stout, ruddy-faced woman given to shouting and loud laughter. Her husbands and wives, sons and daughters, and a smattering of grandchildren, are the core of her ordu. Mala’s wealth, and her claim to fame, derives from her impressive herds of cattle. The beef and leather from these animals have given her whole family a formidable stature and ready access to the equipment necessary to support warriors, and Mala has great ambitions for her family, expecting them to achieve high ranks in the Moto hierarchy of the Unicorn clan based on their obvious strength and ferocity. Mala’s pale-blue yurt is only of modest size, but she spends little time in it, instead making herself “guest” of various spouses and children as she rotates through her family. A large leather banner, painted with a crescent moon that serves as her personal mon, marks whichever yurt currently is playing host to the Calamac matriarch. As suggested by her choice of heraldry, Mala and most of her family are Qamarist. The largest yurt in the ordu sits outside the regular line with its door facing west, toward the City of God. This yurt belongs to no one, and is used as a temple when the family gathers for prayer—and also as a feast hall, on nights when the family slaughters one or more of their cattle. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool, mounts. Weapon Proficiencies: Hunting bow. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or traveling clothes, dagger, hunting bow and quiver with 20 willow-leaf arrows, any one artisan tool, and 5 gp. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Ujik, and Nehiri. Suggested Feats: Animal Companion, Fashionable, Translator’s Knowledge. Background Feature: Neutral Party You have certain advantages due to being an outsider who is not implicated in local politics, such as: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your homeland. You know its forms of government, religions, and other organizations, as well as the various factions and individuals of note that strive to control these groups. You know the lay of the land where you grew up extremely well and know many people in that region. You know the trade that you grew up around well, even if you do not practice it yourself. Because you are from outside of Rokugan, members of Rokugani courts and other political organizations view you as being neutral to their conflicts. They do not assume that you favor a particular side, and might go to extra lengths to sway you to theirs if they think you are an asset who might help them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

