# Canon Lawyer (Crisis of Conscience)

**description**: Variant - Canon Lawyer Sometimes those schooled in matters of law aren’t concerned with the laws of the land but the laws of gods governing the faithful. Instead of prosecuting or defending criminals, you prosecute or defend those accused of blasphemy or heresy. If you choose this variant, you can replace proficiency in History with Religion instead. You are a legally recognized advocate. You are entitled to speak on the behalf of another before a judge or a magistrate. Some barristers represent the state, and prosecute malefactors and those accused as such. But others represent the accused, at least those able to afford your services. Not all barristers represent people in criminal affairs however, as there are often legal issues when one party needs to bring another party over a dispute of contract or conduct. You spent your formative years receiving an education; formally, or perhaps from overhearing the relevant lessons from someone else’s tutor and reading borrowed books. Regardless of your learning, you’ve passed the requisite tests and exams to become certified. Skill Proficiencies: Religion, Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: Calligrapher’s supplies Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A bottle of ink, a quill, a small knife, a small notebook containing recent precedent and case laws, a powdered wig, a set of fine clothes, and a pouch containing 15 gp. Some people become advocates out of a genuine desire to help others, the money to be earned is appealing for sure. But the legal systems are often myriad in their complexity, and often ordinary folk cannot hope to navigate those waters on their own. D4 Crisis Of Conscience 1 I helped enough people that deserved death escape justice that I could no longer do the work. 2 The cases I was forced to prosecute brought me no honor, jailing innocent people over debts drove me to retire. 3 A majority of cases are hearings for people being indentured over inability to pay debts, I couldn’t be a part of legalized slavery any longer. 4 Prosecuting corrupt people has become impossible because the defense can just pay the magistrates for an innocent verdict. Feature: Legalese Your knowledge of legal language enables you to understand any document written in a language that you know, no matter how complex it is written in. Additionally, in a settlement of sufficient size, you can find out local laws and regulations with ease, including technicalities and loopholes not immediately obvious to the public. Suggested Characteristics Barristers know their way around words and how to get a point across logically and effectively. They may like to argue for the sake of argument, or may value money above justice despite their position. D8 Personality Traits 1 Money can purchase more than friendship can. 2 I assume that everyone is hiding something. 3 I gesticulate a lot while I speak. 4 I spend money like it is nothing, life and laws are unfair, so why be a miser. 5 Despite its importance, I despise reading and research. 6 I never pass up the opportunity to play devil’s advocate, regardless of how I feel about the topic. 7 I would rather talk my way out of confrontation, whenever possible. 8 I feel like I can read people with just a handshake. D6 Ideals 1 Revolution. I want to overturn the whole system from within. (Chaotic) 2 Manipulation. The laws exist to serve myself and others who know how to navigate it. (Evil) 3 Centrism. Everyone has their own perspective, no one’s views are better than others. (Neutral) 4 Procedure. Nobody is above the laws, they all must be followed. (Lawful) 5 Charity. I pride myself in representing those who cannot afford services. (Good) 6 Quality. I pride myself on always doing my best. (Any) D6 Bonds 1 I won an unwinnable case by putting enough gold in the right hands. The victim’s family desires revenge. 2 People keep trying to kill me, I must have made the wrong enemies during a trial. 3 I got into law in the first place to free someone close to me that I believed was wrongly imprisoned. 4 An innocent man was executed because I made a procedural mistake. 5 My parents were both thieves, so as a professional courtesy I refuse to prosecute other thieves. 6 I once got a magistrate executed after I proved they had accepted a significant bribe. Several people are unhappy about this. D6 Flaws 1 People say that I criticize everything and am too nitpicky. But really, I am just detail- oriented. 2 I have no setting between “says nothing” and “talks too much” 3 I have a reputation for being cold, uncaring, and utterly ruthless. 4 I always correct people, even when the error is trivial. 5 Being incorrect should never stop me from winning an argument. 6 I hate waiting, my needs are more pressing than others.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

