# Caretaker

**description**: You are part of a large family with multiple younger siblings and/or elderly relatives that you were responsible for taking care of. Because of this responsibility, it was important that you learned proper bedside manner and basic medical care. Perhaps you lived in an orphanage with other children relying on you. Maybe you volunteered at the local hospital. Likely, you were the most responsible of your siblings and your parents entrusted you with watching over the others while they worked or were away. In any case, these skills will come in rather handy as a hero of the Ward. Skill Proficiencies : Medicine, Persuasion Equipment : A set of common clothes, a needle and thread, a storybook, a roll of cloth, a blanket, and a pouch of herbs. Feature: Nurture You know basic first aid and have a comforting voice. If anyone in your party has a minor injury of 3hp or less, and you are in a location without any conflict and fresh water, you can mend the wound and cure them of those points only. Additionally, you have the ability to remove the fear condition from any ally if you spend a bonus action to speak to them. Suggested Characteristics You have a calm and patient disposition. Helping others makes you feel fulfilled, and you believe in charity above vanity. You consider people who put themselves first as selfish. You have a soft spot for anyone younger than you are and feel like you must strive to be a good role model. d8 Personality 1 I sing when I’m helping others. 2 I will always choose the most altruistic approach. 3 I will give my coat to another if they are cold. 4 I am calm in a crisis. 5 I will always stop to give a beggar a coin if I have one. 6 I was raised to value life of all kinds. 7 I will take a secret told to me to the grave. 8 I can’t stand to see an animal get hurt. d6 Ideal 1 Good-Hearted. I want to make the world a safer place so I don’t have to worry about everyone. (Good) 2 Competent. I like to be prepared for any emergency. (Neutral) 3 Wisdom. Acting without concern for the future is foolish. (Neutral) 4 Respect. All people, rich or poor, deserve respect. (Good) 5 Obligation. It is my duty to protect and care for the people beneath me. (Good) 6 Community. It is the duty of all people to make sure everyone gets along. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I will someday repay the life I couldn’t save. 2 One day I will adopt an unwanted child. 3 I will become a doctor when I am Reawakened. 4 I once accidentally misdiagnosed someone, leading to their demise. 5 I will never let a friend be sad. 6 I will find true love some day. d6 Flaw 1 I always need to know what my party members are up to; otherwise, I feel left out. 2 I become sarcastic when I feel threatened. 3 I can’t say no when asked for help. 4 I sweat profusely when I’m nervous. 5 I am bossy when a decision needs to be made. 6 I give unsolicited advice.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

