# Celebrity

**description**: You are famous. Everyone on the SIM knows your name and what you do. You have a knack for attracting public attention and know how to work a crowd. Most of your life has been spent in the limelight, whether you liked it or not. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Performance Tool Proficiencies: Disguise kit, one type of musical instrument or gaming set Languages: One of your choice. Equipment: Fancy outfit, recording unit, SIM Unit, 200 cubil Feature: “Hey, isn’t that….” You are often recognized by the public no matter where you are in the galaxy. Where it can sometimes be a chore, it also has its perks. So long as you stick to your skit, you gain favor quickly in a crowd, often gaining you advantage on Charisma checks with the locals, up to the GM’s discretion. You can also use your clout sometimes to get discounts on goods and services, so long as it’s not in excess. Fans are fickle, you know. Suggested Characteristics Celebrities are often able to captivate an audience, so they tend to have flamboyant or forceful personalities. They tend to have high-minded ideals toward the practice of art and the appreciation of beauty. They are often skilled at masking their emotions whenever they are in the spotlight. d8 Personality Trait 1 I have a list of one-liners ready anytime I’m in the spotlight or on camera. 2 Whenever I get to a new place, I collect local rumors and spread gossip. 3 I’m a hopeless romantic, always searching for that “special someone”. 4 Nobody stays angry at me or around me for long, since I can defuse any amount of tension. 5 I love a good insult, even one directed at me. 6 I get bitter if I’m not the center of attention. 7 I’ll settle for nothing less than perfection. 8 I change my mood or my mind as quickly as I change key in a song. d6 Ideal 1 Beauty . When I perform my art, I make the universe a little brighter. (Good) 2 Tradition . The stories, legends, and songs of the past must never be forgotten, for they teach us who we are. (Lawful) 3 Creativity . The world is in need of new ideas and bold action. (Chaotic) 4 Greed . I’m only in it for the money and fame. (Evil) 5 People . I like seeing the smiles on people’s faces when I perform. That’s all that matters. (Neutral) 6 Honesty . Art should reflect the soul; it should come from within and reveal who we really are. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My instrument is my most treasured possession, and it reminds me of someone I love. 2 I want to regain all the fame I used to have. 3 I want to be famous. I will keep striving until I get there. 4 I have a celebrity idol that I’m always measuring myself against. 5 I will do anything to prove myself superior to my hated rival. 6 I would do anything for the other members of my group/band. d6 Flaw 1 I’ll do anything to win fame and renown. 2 I’m a sucker for a pretty face or a cute smile. 3 A scandal prevents me from ever going home again. That kind of trouble seems to follow me around. 4 I always assume people are nice to me simply because of my fame and status. 5 I have trouble keeping my true feelings hidden. My sharp tongue lands me in trouble. 6 Despite my best efforts, I am unreliable to my friends.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

