# Chaos Child

**description**: You were born in an area tainted by the forces of chaos, whether that be a demon-blighted wasteland, twisted, alien forest, or region of badlands marked with the ruins of an ancient fallen civilization. The taint subtly infests your soul, drawing you toward corruption and madness, but that does not mean you have to give in to it, and more than one child of chaos has become a symbol of order and righteousness in the world. Skill Proficiencies: Any two of your choice Tool Proficiencies: One of your choice Languages: Void speech (this alien tongue comes naturally to you) Equipment: A set of traveler’s clothes, a waterskin, a knife, and 2 days of rations. FEATURE: TAINT OF CHAOS Regardless of where your life has taken you, you still bear traces of your chaotic ancestry in your appearance and mannerisms. For example, you could possess eyes that are mismatched in color or size, strangely rubbery limbs, an odd shuffling gait, extra webbing between your fingers and toes, or even just a chronic twitch. Because others find your appearance strangely unsettling, they have disadvantage on Wisdom (Insight) checks made against you. Aberrations can sense the taint of chaos within you more than other creatures and are less likely to be hostile toward you. You have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made when conversing with a neutral or friendly aberration. SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS Your time spent growing up in the wastes has shaped your perceptions of the people and world around you. You accept things that others might find bewildering or disturbing and rarely shy away from the eldritch or fantastical, especially objects, people, or places touched by the forces of chaos. You may choose from any of the following characteristics. Personality Traits d8 Personality Trait 1 I find the sound of slithering tentacles oddly comforting. 2 I am incredibly messy. 3 I know what it’s like to struggle. I shall never travel down that road again. 4 I accept my friends for who they are. Who am I to judge them? 5 I get anxious in holy places dedicated to gods of law and order. Do the gods hate me? 6 I like foods that others might find disgusting, like pickled yak eyes. 7 I do not show respect to those who do not respect me. 8 I am careful to conceal my true nature around those who might take umbrage with my past. Ideals d6 Ideal 1 Stoicism. I will not give in to the chaos that infests my blood. (Lawful) 2 Friendship. My friends are what keep me sane in this chaotic world. (Neutral) 3 Anarchy. Rules and laws are made to be broken. True freedom can only be obtained when you toss away these impediments. (Chaotic) 4 Kindness. I have known suffering in my life. I hope that through my deeds, others will not suffer as I have. (Good) 5 Wrath. Violence is the only response to a world governed by wars and madness. (Evil) 6 Aspiration. One day I will be renowned throughout the land. (Any) Bond d6 Bond 1 My mother left me this strange idol. I shall cherish it always. 2 My life is shrouded in mystery, yet the note I found by my bed that night tells me to travel east. 3 A kindly paladin rescued me from cultists. I must repay the debt. 4 These wastes may not seem like much to you, but they are my home. I must protect them. 5 The birthmark on my arm burns whenever creatures of chaos draw near. I must find out why. 6 My brother wandered into the wastes one day and never returned. I will not rest until I have found him. Flaw d6 Flaw 1 I sometimes talk to myself in public. Does something whisper back? 2 I am prone to sudden outbursts of emotion. 3 I giggle inappropriately at things that others find disgusting or terrifying. 4 Some people call me flighty. I often change my mind in an instant. 5 I have a horribly raspy voice. Some people say listening to me is like walking over shredded glass. 6 I sometimes creep people out by staring at them for too long.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

