# City - Commoner

**description**: Cities are places where trade flourishes, cultures meet, and many different types of people mix and mingle. Some city dwellers love the press of bodies, the clamor of the marketplace, and the cacophony of conversation, debate, and rumormongering. Others only see humanity packed into boxes; the stink of blood, sweat, and tears; and rampant crime. The prospect of wealth in cities draws a steady supply of labor but also spurs on the abuse and marginalization of that labor. Folk stories warn of the decadence and immorality of the cities—and only some of these are false. Nevertheless, as industry grows, merchants, scholars, thieves, soldiers, sailors, and laborers continue to flock to cities to mingle, work, and trade. To city folk, their home brings to them commerce and fresh ideas from across Rokugan and the rest of the world. This eclectic and exciting environment may foster the spread of new philosophies, which can lead to conflict between different classes of society. Change comes slowly to Rokugan, but the cities usually spark that change. The sedate, seasonal pace of the farmlands shifts to one of daily hubbub in urban settings. For agrarian people, those who live in the cities appear as bizarre and perplexing as any spirit. Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, choose one other Dexterity-based skill (Acrobatics, Sleight of Hand, or Stealth). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool, vehicles (ground). Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or unremarkable garb, club or dagger, any one tool, and 2 gp. Suggested Feats: Artisan’s Ingenuity, Fashionable, Merchant’s Streetwise. Background Feature: Worldly Wisdom As a resident of a particular region, you have the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your place of origin. You can name major families, prominent merchants, and other leaders in the region as well as their respective positions and allegiances. You know the layout and local residents in the neighborhood where you grew up or where you live now, along with any unusual features, shortcuts, or hidden wonders in your home region. You have knowledge of the impact of crime, poverty, or political unrest that you have experienced in your homeland. You know the trade that you grew up around extremely well, even if you do not practice it yourself. This might be woodcraft, hunting, or fishing in a rural village, commerce or artisanry in a bustling city, agriculture in a farming town, or sailing in a seaside port, to name only a few examples. You can always figure out where to go to get work when in your home region or a similar area.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

