# Clown

**description**: Clowns are an integral part of the circus experience, entertaining crowds with singing, dancing, trick riding, juggling and more. Their job is to elicit laughs and joy from the crowd, sometimes at their own expense. The life of a clown is not easy, and the burden of others' joy can sometimes weigh heavy. The best clowns persevere, and give everything they have to make sure others feel the joy they lack. Skill Proficiencies : Performance , Intimidation . Languages : One of your choice. Tool Proficiency : Land vehicles Equipment : A disguise kit, a set of traveler’s clothes, a horn, a set of juggling pins, 5 gp. Feature: Showstopper When wearing your clown makeup and costume, you have advantage on Intimidation checks. You bring joy to some, but when you use your appearance to cause the contrary, you have an almost otherworldly presence. Suggested Characteristics It takes a certain kind of person to be a clown. These raucous comedians need to be comfortable with being the brunt of the joke, while also being ready to fire one back. They are truly the backbone of any circus, keeping the patrons dazzled and distracted enough to have even the most hardened individuals entertained. It should be said, though, never cross a clown: they can be terrifying if wronged. d8 Personality Trait 1 I use comedy to ease tension, both others' and my own. 2 I use humor as a way of forming relationships and gaining acceptance. 3 I am always ready with a snappy comeback to any insult. 4 I can find a funny angle to any situation. 5 What I do is an art, and it is how I express myself to the world. 6 I have expert timing, whether it be with a joke, a witty retort, or introspection. 7 I am an extreme extrovert; the energy of a crowd inspires me. 8 Sharing the spotlight is often key to putting on a good show. d6 Ideal 1 Selflessness It is my duty to spread joy to others. (good) 2 Sincerity. I put myself on display, for better or worse. I am unapologetically me. (neutral) 3 Self Knowledge. Understanding who I am is the key to unlocking others. (any) 4 No Limitations. A good joke can come from anything, even making fun of myself. (chaotic) 5 Responsibility. It is up to me to understand boundaries and never cross them. (lawful) 6 Community. We can all be brought together by laughter. (good) d6 Bond 1 I learned from the best, and I aspire to be as great as they are one day. 2 No one will ever discover why I had to leave home so suddenly. 3 I will learn to feel the joy I’m able to share with others. 4 I will never let anyone see the real me. 5 It is my duty to stand up for those that can’t stand up for themselves. 6 When I wear my clown face I can be whoever I choose to be. d6 Flaw 1 I’m quick to anger if someone doesn’t find me funny. 2 I secretly find joy in the fear some people have of me. 3 I’m sometimes oblivious to how hurtful my humor can be. 4 I use sarcasm to mask my aggression. 5 I require constant admiration and acknowledgment that I’m funny. 6 I paint on this smile to mask my frown.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Escape Plan Games

**book**: Tavern Tales Vol 1 - A Trip Away Inn

