# Collaborator

**description**: In the vicious and bleak world that Izrador has created, many have no choice but to work with the Shadow’s forces if they wish to survive. Others tragically fall into the trap of believing that their service will earn a modicum of peace for themselves or their loved ones. Yet, time and again, those who give aid to Izrador’s agents find that the Shadow is neither merciful nor generous to those who serve him. For some, this realization drives them deeper into desperation and despair. For others, it is the catalyst that drives them into action against the Shadow. Skill Proficiencies: Choose one from among Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: Choose one from among Vehicles (land), Vehicles (water), or one type of artisan’s tools. Languages: Choose one from either Orcish or Shadow Tongue Equipment: A set of common clothes, one set of artisans tools you are proficient with, and a pouch containing 15gp Feature: On the Inside Years spent providing aid, information, and resources to the legions of Izrador has given you a thorough understanding of how the Shadow’s forces are organized, their command structures, security measures, and even weaknesses. In addition, in your time working with the Shadow, you have made connections with other insiders who trust you, insiders who may not know that you have turned against the will of Izrador. Suggested Characteristics Those who have collaborated with the Shadow often have a desperate need to survive that had once overridden their morality. This may have led them to have a crisis of faith or to seek forgiveness. d8 Personality Trait 1 I am never fazed by the depths of evil I witness in my travels of the world. 2 I see those that have always worked against the shadow as naive. 3 I see good in even the darkest of shadows. 4 I treat the weakest of my enemies without mercy. 5 I am slow to trust. 6 I am at risk of exposing myself as a previous agent of the shadow because I find it difficult not to impress others with my knowledge of the enemy. 7 I keep a low profile so as not to draw unwanted attention. 8 I keep my body and clothing fastidious as though it cleansed me of past deeds. d6 Ideal 1 Pragmatism. The ends justify the means. (Evil) 2 Remorse. I've committed such evil that I will never make up for what I've done. (Lawful) 3 Redemption. I still have a chance to right the wrongs I've committed in my past. (Good) 4 Freedom. My commitment to my own freedom means more to me than anything else. (Chaotic) 5 Stoicism. I weather hardship and pain with silence and resolve. (Neutral) 6 Thankfulness. Others showed me the error of my ways and I intend to pass that gift forward. (Good) d6 Bond 1 My devotion to my loved ones is strong enough that I will do anything for them, even commit murder. 2 I owe a favor to a legate from my days working under Izrador. 3 I wronged a family in the past, and my guilt has grown over the years. I want to make amends. 4 An aspect of my old life serving the Shadow still entices me. 5 I know that someone seeks vengeance against me for an atrocity I was once a part of. 6 Though I no longer follow Izrador, I miss the rituals of worship and sometimes catch myself whispering prayers and incantations again out of habit. d6 Flaw 1 In my heart of hearts, I'm unsure of my decision to betray Izrador and may go back to my old ways if the temptation becomes too great. 2 I'm likely to betray my friends if given an opportunity to be in a position of great power. 3 I've developed such a taste of violence that I sometimes encourage it. 4 When things look bad, my companions shouldn't expect me to stick around. 5 Another person faced justice for my crimes, and that's perfectly alright with me. 6 I'm willing to change my position on a matter just to be the one who wins the argument.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

