# Cometborn

**description**: Cometborn are individuals born under the passing of a comet. The event magically changed them, instilling in them memories from before they were born. These memories are fragments of various events and people that existed in the world in some of the previous times the comet passed overhead. Cometborn are aware these memories are not their own but find comfort in the memories nonetheless. They often turn to these memories in times of stress or uncertainty, seeking—and often finding—answers to their current plight. This connection to the past makes cometborn seem “wise beyond their years” and leads many to lives of historical study or to advisory roles among their peers. This connection also gives cometborn an innate sense of people, able to read others and easily detect patterns in behavior. Skill Proficiencies: History, Insight Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools or one type of musical instrument Languages: Primordial and one other language of your choice Equipment: A shard from a meteorite or other cosmic object, a set of artisan’s tools or a musical instrument (one of your choice), a set of common clothes, and a pouch with 5 gp Feature: Fragments of the Past Memories of the past fill your mind, always within easy reach should you need them. Whenever you face a difficult decision or great uncertainty, you can look to these memories for an answer. The answer might come in short flashes or glimpses into a similar situation viewed or experienced by someone in the past, but the answer is never a clear direction for the decision you must make. The memories provide you with a sensation of hope, foreboding, tranquility, despair, joy, indifference, or similar emotion around your planned course of action, hinting that the plan might lead to positive, negative, positive and negative, or neutral results. You can consult your ancient memories in this way no more than once every 24 hours. Suggested Characteristics The memory fragments in the cometborn’s mind often leave them feeling apart from those around them, as they know and understand things they shouldn’t or that others take years to learn. As a result, some cometborn tend toward being charismatic and gregarious, overcompensating for any awkwardness they feel they might exhibit, while others become paranoid and reclusive, shutting themselves off from others to avoid being hurt. d8 Personality Trait 1 I am outgoing and charming. I always know just what you need to hear. 2 I worry those around me will see I am somehow different. 3 I plot and plan incessantly, past memories of a tragedy that befell unprepared people haunting me. 4 I am prone to feeling sentimental and wistful at inopportune times. 5 I am obsessed with the stars and heavenly bodies. I sometimes forgo sleep to watch the night sky. 6 I only speak when necessary. My words are calculated. 7 I am secretive about both meaningful and mundane things. 8 I cannot shake the feeling of being an outsider, even when surrounded by sincere friends and loving family. d6 Ideal 1 Knowledge. Learning and gaining knowledge is always useful. Gathering information is its own reward. (Any) 2 Secrets. I love learning and keeping secrets. You can trust me with anything. (Any) 3 Connection. We so rarely see one another for who we are. We should treasure those who are trustworthy. (Good) 4 Truth. The greatest gift you can receive is the truth. The challenge is to know who is worthy. (Lawful) 5 Control. I love using my talents to manipulate others. I derive joy from controlling those around me. (Evil) 6 Deception. No armor protects like a thick pack of lies. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I will learn the truth about some past event hinted at in my memories and what it means. 2 I will find others who are like me. 3 I will obtain the secrets of powerful figures and use them to my advantage. 4 One day, I will return home and tell my family the truth about my ancient memories. 5 I will find the astronomer who visited me as a child—they knew I was cometborn. 6 I will travel the stars and find the comet that crossed my birth. When I do, I will destroy it. d6 Flaw 1 I make friends slowly and struggle to trust them. 2 I often lie about inconsequential things. 3 I sometimes drive people away by overanalyzing their motivations and behaviors. 4 A lifetime of seeing, hearing, and feeling fragments of memories of others has left me unsure who I really am. This often results in inconsistent behavior and choices. 5 My ability to read people leads me to treat relationships like games. 6 Every so often, I leave everything behind and start anew.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

