# Commercial Pilot

**description**: For every ace fighter pilot or sky pirate, there are hundreds of completely unremarkable civilian pilots, who make their livings ferrying goods, people, and information between the stars. These commercial pilots may not have much combat experience, but they do spend a large portion of their lives at the controls, and surely know their ships better than anyone else. There are many reasons why a civilian pilot might become an adventurer. It is not uncommon for trained pilots to be dragooned into service in military fleets during times of crisis; likewise, pilots are often asked to step up to protect their ships, crews, and cargos from the many dangers of space. Some pilots enter the profession fully expecting a life of adventure, looking forward to the opportunities they will have to travel and explore. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, Piloting Tool Proficiencies: Ship maintenance tools Languages: Any one of your choice Equipment: A partial map of a distant star system, a badge or insignia from your flying school, a pair of aviator glasses, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a pouch containing 15 gp Feature: Take-off Checklist Your many hours of flying experience mean that all the standard checks and preparations involved in launching or docking a ship are firmly ingrained into your mind. Any simple maneuvers you undertake while piloting a ship go much quicker and smoother, with no risk of mishap. Previous Ships When you choose the pilot background, you should consider what sorts of ships you have flown in the past, and perhaps think of names for some of them. Random names can be generated by rolling two d20s and combining the results using the tables below: Ship Names d20 First Word d20 Second Word 1 Astral 1 Alpha 2 Brilliant 2 Arrow 3 Dark 3 Chariot 4 Eternity 4 Comet 5 Fire 5 Dancer 6 Glorious 6 Express 7 Grand 7 Falcon 8 Heroic 8 Light 9 Humble 9 Maiden 10 Imperial 10 One 11 Infinite 11 Prince 12 Lucky 12 Queen 13 Nebula 13 Rogue 14 Proud 14 Seeker 15 Serene 15 Serpent 16 Silent 16 Star 17 Silver 17 Trader 18 Swift 18 Transporter 19 Void 19 Traveler 20 Wandering 20 Voyager Suggested Characteristics Pilots are, to some extent, ordinary people with the kinds of personalities that you might find in any civilian profession. That doesn’t tell the whole story, however, and there are some traits that speak to the unique culture and lifestyles of interplanetary aircrew. d8 Personality Trait 1 I fly by the seat of my pants. 2 I always keep a photograph of my family in the cockpit. 3 I prefer to be in control of my own destiny, rather than in someone else’s hands. 4 I live fast! 5 Multitasking is no problem for me. 6 I have very steady hands. 7 I can recognize a ship a mile away just from its movements. 8 I don’t feel entirely comfortable on dry land. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom. I became a pilot to loose myself from earthly bonds. (Chaotic) 2 Thrill. I do whatever delivers maximum pleasure and enjoyment for myself. (Evil) 3 Service. All I want is to get my cargo safely to its destination, and to get paid fairly for my work. (Lawful) 4 Prestige. I value the respect of my peers more than anything else. (Any) 5 Caring. My objective is to protect those in my care. (Good) 6 Stability. I’m just trying to get by, without getting in anyone’s way. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 I remain very close to my buddies from flight school. 2 My copilot is my best friend. We always have each other’s backs. 3 I worked for a galaxy-spanning company and often run into former colleagues. 4 I know a couple of shady types who’re happy to buy smuggled goods. 5 I have family back on my home planet that I try to stay in touch with. 6 My flying skills saved the life of a powerful dignitary who still owes me a favor. d6 Flaw 1 I can’t believe that anyone else could be better than me at anything. 2 I take too many risks and often get myself into trouble. 3 I have a crippling fear of asteroid belts. 4 I feel a compulsive need to showboat. 5 I fly into a rage if anyone changes the settings in my cockpit. 6 I am haunted by strange things I’ve seen in deep space.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Dark Matter Starter Kit

