# Conspiracy Theorist

**description**: You’ve always seen the hidden dangers. Your intuition is amazing, and you’ve often identified a villain after a single look at the person. And when trouble is on the horizon, you know it’s not just a weather change. As things went downhill on Virthys, you knew what was coming. Or, well, at least that something was coming. You tried to warn people, but they just laughed at you. Only when people actually started to die, people began to believe you might have been up to something. If only people had listened to you, maybe something could have been done. Maybe the end of the world could have been stopped. It’s a miracle that anybody survived, that there's still a little piece of the old world left. You are not going to watch again. This time, you will not only be vigilant. You will fight evil before it can ever get that far again. Skill Proficiencies: Choose two of the following: Perception, Insight or Investigation Tool Proficiencies and Languages: Choose two of the following: Disguise Kit, Thieves Tools or an obscure language not known by common people. The language can be one usually not accessible to outsiders, like Druidic or Thieves’ Cant, or it can be from other planes or worlds. Equipment: A pouch containing 5 gp A set of commoner's clothes A scholar's pack A notebook from your life on Virthys, filled with clues that pointed early to the coming apocalypse. Pattern Recognition: You are skilled at seeing patterns - sometimes even when there isn't one. Once a day, whenever you are out of ideas, or simply looking for a fresh take on something, you can ask the GM to roll for Investigation for your character. The DC is set for each individual roll by the GM. If you succeed, the GM gives you a new clue - it might be a very minor detail, or a major aspect of your current adventure. In any case, it should be something your character wasn't aware of yet, possibly even some seemingly far-fetched idea that happens to be correct. If the check fails, the GM still gives you a clue, but it connects two things that are in reality unconnected. It is impossible for you to discern whether the check was successful or a failure; your character is convinced that the clue is correct, until proven wrong (and sometimes even after proven wrong). Suggested characteristics: The truth is out there, and you are going to uncover it. Some might call you a madman, but you've experienced that before. You are extremely resilient (some say bullheaded) when it comes to doubt. Truth is, you consider your blind spots to be focusing lenses. But you love connecting the dots - either for the intellectual challenge, to feel elitist or because you truly believe in the hidden dangers, and want to protect the world from it. Most probably, it's a combination of these things. Traits I believe that no powerful people can be trusted, and they all try to manipulate the masses. I am a believer. The world out there is far weirder and more obscure than most people would ever dare to think. I keep my friends close, because I know I won't be able to defeat the powers-that-be on my own. I see patterns everywhere. Sometimes, my mind is so flooded by this that I need to write things down to calm myself. I always keep an eye out for the great dangers - to me and to the entire world. I'm stubborn. Once I'm convinced of something, it is really hard to convince me otherwise. I love the thrill of following clues and uncovering hidden secrets. I have little respect for privacy. All secrets are bad, even those of a personal nature. Ideals Truth. The people need to know what is going on so they can make the right decisions. (Good) Laws and rules. Even the powerful have to bow before the laws of society. (Lawful) Freedom. No laws will keep me from uncovering the truth. (Chaotic) Manipulation. Knowledge is power. Even made-up knowledge. (Evil) Loyalty. You will fight on the side of your friends, and of everyone else who seeks the truth, no matter which powers stand against you. (Neutral) Knowledge. Seeking the truth is a value in itself. (Any) Bonds Before the apocalypse, I found a clue to something that is still relevant in the new world. I'm going to find what's behind this, no matter how long it will take. In the old world, I had a mentor that showed me how to find the truth behind lies. I found out this person is still alive, but I have no idea where to find them. I know one of the people or creatures that were at least partially responsible for what happened during the apocalypse. I won't stop pursuing them and bringing them to justice. There was one person in particular that believed me before the world ended. They didn't make it, but I made a promise to them, and I intend to keep that promise. I've seen the world die. I will not allow that a second time. I will protect this world and all its inhabitants, no matter the dangers before me. I have a secret contact that I know nothing about. All I get is letters or hidden clues, always with some kind of telltale sign that it's from the same person. I am still not sure whether I can trust that person. Flaws I mistrust everyone at first. People can earn my trust, but it takes time, and it can be lost quickly. I tend to over-interpret things. I'm hypervigilant, and I often consider possible signs of danger as fact. I'm reckless. The powers-that-be can't be toppled by the faint of heart. I'm ruthless. Sacrificing others for the greater goal just has to be done sometimes. I'm convinced that I'm better than others. I see things that others are too stupid or uninformed to understand. Which is why I cling to my theories, because they have to be right for me to be as elitist as I feel. I believe those who ignore the clues that I show them deserve whatever's coming to them. It's not my job to save anyone who's too ignorant to understand.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

