# Court of the Path of Mischief (or Illusion) - Non-Human

**description**: The other leading philosophy of the Enchanted Country is embodied in the court of the Path of Mischief (or Illusion). A trickster lord of the Path of Mischief (or Illusion), if asked about their court’s philosophy, would say that humans, alone among animals, have rebelled against the duty of all creatures to see one another as equals. Humans exalt themselves above others by virtue of the advantages granted to them by their bodies and minds, and they reshape the world around them into something it was not before. The Celestial Order, as the philosophy of the opposing court would have one believe, appears to aid and abet humans in this pursuit, presenting human life as a reward for a good animal life, and punishes humans little for their hubris and selfishness. The Path of Mischief (or Illusion)'s beings take redressing these wrongs into their own claws, and many seek to weaken humanity and tilt the scales of the world back to how it was it was before humanity’s age of ascendency. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, choose one other Dexterity-based skill (Acrobatics, Sleight of Hand, or Stealth). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool of subterfuge. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, and you can communicate in Animal Speech. Equipment: Any one tool of subterfuge and 10 gp. Suggested Feats: Clarity in Solace, Graceful Combatant. Background Feature: Walker of Secret Ways You were raised among a culture that consists predominantly of nonhumans, and might not even be in the Mortal Realm. As such, you have a different way of understanding the world than most humans, granting you the following benefits: You know the history of your own culture and how it has interacted with other groups across the centuries. You know a great deal about passing through regions that human inhabitants of Rokugan generally view as impassable in relative safety, such as through the spirit realms, the Shadowlands, or the Shinomen Forest. You can identify the dangers and areas of safety in these places. You instinctively recognize the taboos of spirits and otherworldly beings when visiting their domains, though you do not necessarily have all the information needed to deal with them. You know about the various realms below, beside, and above, and can recognize the common markers of their inhabitants.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

