# Courier

**description**: You travel the world, carrying vital information across Eredane, between the strongholds of the free peoples. You may serve a royal court or a military leader, your service may be between hidden outposts in the depths of Erethor, through the tunnels between dwarven holdfasts, or across the open lands between human settlements. Wherever you roam, it is not without purpose. You are no aimless wanderer, but a dutiful servant of the free peoples. As such, you are also a target for the forces of the Shadow. You might bear details of your peoples’ troop movements, the secrets to some mystical formula, or simply news of a great victory or loss, but whatever you carry, it is in the Shadow’s best interest that your missions go uncompleted. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, Survival Tool Proficiencies: Vehicles (Land) Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of traveler’s clothes, a scroll case with a hidden compartment, a writ of passage (either legitimate or a forgery), a pouch containing 10gp. Feature: The Backroads You are familiar with the many roads and routes between settlements, cities, and fortresses throughout Eredane. Given the sensitive nature of the messages you carry, you know how best to avoid the agents of Izrador on the road. Which forgotten trails to use, where best to hole up to rest without being seen, and when the main roads are patrolled by the Shadow’s soldiers, are all second nature to you. Suggested Characteristics Couriers live a contradictory existence. Most of their time is spent in solitude, yet their livelihood depends on powerful groups and organizations. Similarly, the constant danger of their profession makes them wary of others, while they themselves must be given the utmost trust from their employers. d8 Personality Trait 1 I find solitude and the open road comforting, crowds are not for me. 2 I am always alert for danger, anyone could be a potential threat. 3 No matter the destination, I'm sure I know a shortcut. 4 I've been to every corner of Eredane, and I've got the stories to prove it. 5 I like my camp just so, and sharing space with others is a nuisance. 6 No one is better at keeping a secret than me. 7 I have no need for glory or fame, a life of quiet service is enough for me. 8 I am fond of road songs and often hum them under my breath when nervous. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom. Until the Shadow has been defeated, no one is truly free. (Chaotic) 2 Independence. I will risk any harm to live as I choose, day to day. (Neutral) 3 Greater Good. I cannot shrink from danger while me people need me. (Good) 4 Knowledge. What power lies within the secrets that are entrusted to me? (Evil) 5 Duty. I will do what my lord and his allies ask of me. (Lawful) 6 Suspicious. Anyone could be an agent of the Shadow. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My lord has entrusted me with valuable information, and I must guard it with my life. 2 The free peoples of Eredane are fighting for their very survival. I will do what I must to aid in that fight. 3 In a far off land, I have found one for whom I would sacrifice anything. 4 Though I travel long and far, I ache to see my loved ones again. 5 I will never be satisfied with a sedentary life, my freedom to roam is too important to me. 6 I have seen the wonders of a dozen cultures and will fight to preserve them all. d6 Flaw 1 Too much time relying on only myself has made me wary of trusting others. 2 I have seen the darkest corners of Eredane, and I'm losing faith that the war against the Shadow can be won. 3 Despite my lord's trust, I cannot keep a secret to save my life. 4 My first reaction to danger is to cut and run. 5 I am paid well to carry secrets, but I have often considered selling them to the highest bidder. 6 Paranoia has frayed my wits and I cannot relax.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 30502

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

