# Crafter

**description**: You are an artisan and excel at both practicing and selling your craft. You are part of some inner circles depending on your profession. Gunsmiths, tailors, chefs, and mechanics all fall under your list of contacts in a major or minor way, as trade across the galaxy requires both know-how and know-who’s. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: An artisan tool of your choice, Vehicles (Planetary) Languages: One of your choice. Equipment: Your choice of one set of artisan’s tools, basic clothes, PSD, 180 cubil. Feature: Vendor As a member of the trading community, your goods and craft are registered on the SIM and local planetary networks. In many locations across the galaxy, you know what costs what and are good at not getting stiffed on goods, food, or lodgings. You can sometimes trade your own craft in exchange for others, as well as find people willing to work for you in exchange for trade or training. Suggested Characteristics Crafters seem just as down to earth and ordinary as any other working person in the entire galaxy, though very few share the same habits and hobbies in their off-time. They often take pride in their work and know the value of good business and community. They are, however susceptible to greed and the alluring promises of unscrupulous megacorporations. d8 Personality Trait 1 I am a perfectionist, believing that anything worth doing should be done the right way. 2 I can be fairly critical of someone who can’t appreciate fine craftsmanship. 3 I always want to know how things work and what makes people tick. 4 I like to talk at length about my profession. 5 I love a good insult, even one directed at me. 6 I get bitter if I’m not the center of attention. 7 I don’t part with my money easily and will haggle tirelessly to get the best deal possible. 8 My mood is unpredictable, changing quickly and often.. d6 Ideal 1 Generosity . My skills are best used to make the world a better place. (Good) 2 Teamwork . It is important that people bring their talents together for the benefit and advancement of their community. (Lawful) 3 Freedom . Everyone should be free to use their talents however they choose. (Chaotic) 4 Greed . I’m only in it for the money. (Evil) 5 People . My life and those closest to me are all that truly matter. Everything else is optional. (Neutral) 6 Pride . You should always strive to be the very best at what you do. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My job/profession is the most important thing in my life. 2 My greatest creation was wasted on the undeserving. I will not stop until I create something even greater. 3 I lost my mentor to tragedy and wish to honor them by taking on their mantle. 4 I was tricked into creating something that fell into malicious hands. I wish to atone for my foolishness. 5 I was socially cast out by others in my profession, but one day I will be back and clear my name. 6 Everything I create is in the name of someone that I love. d6 Flaw 1 I’ll do anything to get my hands on rare or priceless material. 2 I often think someone is trying to cheat or deceive me. 3 I must never let anyone know the truth behind the biggest mistake of my career. 4 I never have enough. I always need more. 5 I would do anything to be the head of a powerful corporation. 6 I never give credit to those whose skills rival my own. I must always prove myself to be the best. 

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

