# Cultist

**description**: Late nights of studying and ritual practice, feigning normalcy in the eye of the public, such is life in a cult. You may not have always been in it, and you may have gotten out of it if you were lucky, but that won’t change the fact that you were once devoted to a dark cause you had to keep hidden from all but your fanatical brethren. You participated in evil deeds and studied the teachings of dark entities. Your reclusive past makes it hard for you to trust others and form relationships with those outside of your beliefs. You may have escaped the bonds of your cultish past but the memories of the twisted acts you witnessed and took part in don’t seem like they will be leaving you anytime soon. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Religion Tools: Poisoner’s Kit Languages: One exotic language of your choice Equipment: A small bone knife, a terrifying trinket from your time studying the occult, a holy symbol of your dark deity, a set of common clothes, a set of cult regalia, and a pouch containing 15 gp. I Joined a Cult… Everyone in a cult has their reason for joining the ranks. That could be because you had nowhere else to turn, to find a family, or to gain otherworldly powers. What’s yours? D6 Reason For Joining 1 Stumbling upon a cultish ritual, I witnessed the dark powers they possessed and I wanted them as well. 2 I swore revenge on the one who murdered my family, the cult will help me find and kill them in exchange for my devotion. 3 I was raised by the leader of a cult and plan on making them proud by following in their footsteps. 4 I was an outcast because of my odd looks or strange behaviors, the cult took me in and accepted me as if I were family. 5 The unjust death of a loved one has me determined to bring them back and with the knowledge this cult possesses, I believe I can do so. 6 I discovered an ancient relic that awoke something powerful within me and it wants me to release it unto the world. Feature: Lore of the Occult Cult members are expected to study and practice the beliefs and rituals of the dark masters they’ve devoted themselves to. Experienced in studying occult lore, you can easily recall information on cultist activities and rituals you have experienced. If you’re unable to recall this information, you most likely know where, or who, you can obtain it from. Whether from a book, a person, or a place, it could be dangerous to seek out and your current standing with your cult may or may not affect your ability to obtain it. Your time amongst the cult has also made it easy for you to recognize signs of cultish activity or behavior. This could be recognizing an odd speech pattern someone uses when communicating or spotting occult iconography or text, or other signs of a similar nature. Option: I Got Away From a Cult… Most aren’t lucky enough to get out once they’ve been inducted, but you did. When did you realize you needed to get out or die trying. D6 Reason For Leaving 1 After participating in a sacrificial ritual, I knew I was in over my head and needed to escape. 2 When I was asked to burn down an orphanage, I decided there were some lines I couldn’t cross. 3 After years of devoted service, I discovered the order I was devoted to was responsible for the deaths of my family. 4 I was betrayed by my cult, they performed a ritual to manifest a dark entity within me, I escaped seeking someone to destroy it. 5 I was kidnapped by the cult and escaped after finding out they wanted to kill me. I’ve been on the run ever since. 6 Upon discovering the cult planned on bringing about the apocalypse, I tried to find others to help me stop them. Suggested Characteristics Cultists may be skittish, paranoid, or jump to conclusions that may normally seem illogical where it comes to topics close to the activities of their cult. D8 Personality Traits 1 I’m always on the lookout for signs or omens from my dark lord. 2 I have an overly pessimistic attitude towards anything other than my devotions. 3 I’ve been chosen by an entity of ancient evil to do its bidding. 4 Always on edge from a lifetime of betrayal, I never let my guard down. 5 Having spent so long only around other followers I am paranoid around strangers. 6 I blindly took to the teachings of our leader. Now that I’ve left I question everything. 7 I never miss an opportunity to warn others of the evils that I escaped. 8 Once I was considered one of the most prestigious members of our order. I will not be disrespected. D6 Ideals 1 Devotion - Nothing is more important than the will of our dark lord. (Lawful) 2 Sacrifice – We must all do our part, no matter how costly the price. (Chaotic) 3 Atonement – I did horrible things in their name and now I work to right those wrongs. (Neutral) 4 Ambition – When our dark lord rises, we shall take our rightful place by their side and reign together. (Evil) 5 Salvation – To cleanse my soul of the deeds I committed in their name, I have dedicated my life to purging their evil. (Good) 6 Teamwork – Alone we are but one part of a machine, together we are strong enough to take on anything. (Any) D6 Bonds 1 The relationships I formed in the order taught me the value of family. 2 I won’t ever forget the first ritual sacrifice I participated in. 3 Our cult leader saved my life when I was a young child, but I know he must be stopped. 4 The ancient knowledge I helped protect would plunge the world into madness should it become known. 5 The order had a strict and consistent daily regiment which helped keep me sane.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 28072

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

