# Curio Collector

**description**: Curio collectors are obsessed with collecting alchemical ingredients, spell components, and other small oddities. They travel the world in search of the rarest of these to add to their collections. Not all curio collectors are spellcasters, though many are. They might be caring and generous community leaders who want to facilitate magic in their community or quiet and withdrawn owners of a curio shop stuffed with oddities both practical and decorative. The curio collector is always proud of their collections and is usually willing to show and maybe even share with those who take an interest. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Survival Tool Proficiencies: Alchemist’s supplies, cartographer’s tools Equipment: A set of alchemist’s supplies or a set of cartographer’s tools (one of your choice), a notebook filled with ingredients and oddities you’ve collected or studied over the years, two over-the-shoulder belts with twenty small, leather pouches each, a set of common clothes, 10 gp worth of alchemical ingredients or spell components, and a belt pouch containing 5 gp Feature: Trash is Treasure You have spent years memorizing alchemical ingredients, spell components, and other hard-to-find ingredients and oddities under the tutelage of another collector or in the learned halls of an academy. You immediately recognize when an object you perceive or handle is an ingredient or component for something, though you might not recall its exact application without further study. You also have a general idea of its value in the markets where it would be most desired, estimating a value within 15 percent of the object’s actual value in those markets. Suggested Characteristics Curio collectors are obsessive, detail-oriented individuals who are highly motivated to complete their collections. They enjoy the hunt for rare ingredients and components and take great care to maintain the object’s quality when collecting it. They might take risks to ensure the talon of some monstrous foe remains intact even as they work to defeat it. Curio collectors tend to have an excellent memory and are often able to recall details, especially about ingredients and their sources, that others might not. d8 Personality Trait 1 My enthusiasm for life is infectious. 2 I remember nearly every word certain people have spoken to me. 3 I am single-minded and cannot easily be distracted. 4 I am sincere and earnest. You know where you stand with me. 5 I take pride in displaying my collections to the public. 6 I am always a little unkempt. 7 I am happiest organizing my collections. 8 I am often as thrilled by the hunt for rare oddities as I am tucking them safely into a pouch. d6 Ideal 1 Completionism. I finish tasks and leave no loose threads. I love lists and drawers. (Any) 2 Resourcefulness. Show me a mound of junk and I’ll show you all the spells and potions it can be used to create. (Any) 3 Generosity. I love to show and share my collections with others. My knowledge is meant for the world. (Good) 4 Respect. Every object has its place. Even the lowliest length of jute deserves respect. (Lawful) 5 Greed. I do not care who gets hurt; completing my collections trumps the wellbeing of others. (Evil) 6 Persistence. I take ill-advised risks to complete my collections. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I will recover the spell components a warlord stole before they burned my village. 2 There are 715 types of birds in this region. I will collect feathers from each one. 3 The academy where I studied magic has tasked me with fulfilling an order of very rare alchemical ingredients and spell components. I will not fail them. 4 I will build a guild of collectors and craftspeople to support the region. 5 If I collect every type of spell component, a powerful mage will teach me a forgotten spell. 6 A person I love is being held by an evil mage. I must find a rare diamond to exchange for their freedom. d6 Flaw 1 I struggle to discern mockery and sarcasm, especially when proudly displaying my collections. 2 I struggle to control feelings of covetousness and jealousy. 3 I frequently place myself and others in danger in pursuit of completing my collections. 4 When stressed, I organize my pouches and their contents when I should be resting. 5 I cannot control my spending. 6 My obsession sometimes blinds me to the needs of others.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

