# Daidoji Family - Crane Clan

**description**: The Daidoji family trains the core of the Crane Clan’s standing military, but their other key function is in managing the clan’s vast logistics network. From the Iron Warriors who comprise the elite units of the Crane Clan’s armies and command legions of levied soldiers, to the wary bodyguards protecting the courtiers of the Doji, to the Daidoji Trading Council responsible for providing the raw materials and wealth for Crane arts, the Daidoji family keeps operations running smoothly so that the other families can best advance the clan’s diplomatic and cultural objectives. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Choose one of the following tools: blacksmith’s kit, bowyer’s kit, or any one tool of subterfuge. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Traveling clothes, unremarkable garb, wakizashi, choose one of the following tools: blacksmith’s kit, bowyer’s kit, or any one tool of subterfuge, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Courts and Culture You have a strong awareness of the politics within Crane lands and beyond, granting you the following benefits: You can name major family heads and other leaders, and you know their respective positions, allegiances, heraldry, and relationships. You know about the state of political affairs between the clans. You know proper etiquette and protocol in the Imperial Capital. You have a working knowledge of the high arts and the great masters of old. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Crane Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Daidoji Iron Warrior School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Daidoji Iron Warrior school of battle, make Strength and Constitution your highest ability scores, with Wisdom as a tertiary score to keep your cool in battle. Consider selecting the Resolve of Iron feat to reflect your disciplined training. Start in the bushi class for three levels, selecting the Protector archetype and acquiring a spear or polearm as your main weapon. Then switch to the duelist class for three levels to acquire the Challenge of Steel feature and an archetype of your choice. Put the rest of your levels into bushi if you want to emphasize being a front-line combatant, or consider taking several levels of courtier for access to extra reactions and rhetorical flourishes that reflect your command experience.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

