# Dhampir of Morgau

**description**: The Principalities of Morgau and Doresh burst at the seams with miserable specimens of humanity, or deluded wretches who seek undeath to elevate their station. Your lot is greater, thanks to your noble blood—you were born to one of the vampire houses, the spawn of a vampire lord and a mortal mother. Unlike dhampir who desperately eke out a living from a world that rejects them, you were raised with opportunity and privilege. Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: One musical instrument of your choice Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A signet ring, a musical instrument, a riding horse, a set of fine clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Lord of the Night You give off a mien of lordship that undead, and those who venerate them, can't ignore. Within the Principalities you are treated according to your high station; your presence is rarely challenged, and you can demand lodging and hospitality for yourself and your companions (equivalent to a common lifestyle for yourself, and a poor lifestyle for non-dhampir companions). Outside Morgau and Doresh, undead creatures are disposed to hear your words instead of leaping directly to battle. Mindless or simple undead such as skeletons and zombies don't recognize you for what you are, but more intelligent undead may be willing to treat instead of fight, if you approach them correctly. Suggested Characteristics The highborn blood of Morgau are often vain, haughty, and cruel. Most revel in their dominion over the lesser breathing races that comprise the peasantry, but not all. Some recognize the darkness and decay that surrounds their station, and develop a conscience and empathy. d8 Personality Traits 1 I'm better than you. You know. I know it. 2 My enemies deserve no mercy. 3 I hide my station unless I need to pull rank. 4 I use my title and power to improve the lot of those around me. 5 I'm kind to those less fortunate or powerful than myself; the world is cruel enough already. 6 I'm always wary of treachery. 7 I'm uncomfortable around the undead; they remind me too much of my split heritage. 8 Living creatures disgust me. d6 Ideal 1 Dominion. Mine is the blood of kings, and all shall bow before me. (Evil) 2 Challenge. I care only for the next test. (Any) 3 Duty. With station comes responsibility for those beneath me. I never forget that. (Good) 4 Obligation. I must obey the laws and traditions that govern my lineage. (Lawful) 5 Endurance. The survival of myself, and my line, is all that matters. (Neutral) 6 Autonomy. I make my own choices, and guide my own destiny. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 The vampire patron of my family isn't like most of his kind. I respect his wisdom and compassion. 2 I will prove the nobility of my house outside of our lands. 3 I'm searching for a way to manage, or cure, my bloodthirst. 4 My house is in a feud with a rival, and I will see us emerge victorious. 5 My station gives me insight into a great evil that must be overthrown. 6 I'm in love with a member of a rival house. d6 Flaw 1 No matter how hard I try to connect, living creatures are ultimately just food. 2 My thirst for blood threatens to consume me every second, and with every drop spilled in battle. 3 I secretly loathe my family and what I must do to remain in their good graces. 4 I dismiss the opinions of others quickly. 5 I'm terrified of becoming fully undead, and I'll do anything to avoid that fate. 6 Life means little to me, and I'm quick to execute those who cross or fail me.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

