# Diplomat

**description**: You have always found harmonious solutions to conflict. You might have started mediating family conflicts as a child. When you were old enough to recognize aggression, you sought to defuse it. You often resolved disputes among neighbors, arriving at a fair middle ground satisfactory to all parties. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Persuasion Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A set of fine clothes, a letter of passage from a local minor authority or traveling papers that signify you as a traveling diplomat, and a belt pouch containing 20 gp Feature: A Friend in Every Port Your reputation as a peacemaker precedes you, or people recognize your easy demeanor, allowing you to attain food and lodging at a discount. In addition, people are predisposed to warn you about dangers in a location, alert you when a threat approaches you, or seek out your help for resolving conflicts between locals. Suggested Characteristics Diplomats always have kind words and encourage their companions to think positively when encountering upsetting situations or people. Diplomats have their limits, however, and are quick to discover when someone is negotiating in bad faith. d8 Personality Trait 1 I like to travel, meet new people, and learn about different customs. 2 I intercede in minor squabbles to find common ground on all sides. 3 I never disparage others, even when they might deserve such treatment. 4 I always try to make a new friend wherever I travel, and when I return to those areas, I seek out my friends. 5 I have learned how to damn with faint praise, but I only use it when someone has irked me. 6 I am not opposed to throwing a bit of coin around to ensure a good first impression. 7 Even when words fail at the outset, I still try to calm tempers. 8 I treat everyone as an equal, and I encourage others to do likewise. d6 Ideal 1 Harmony. I want everyone to get along. (Good) 2 Contractual. When I resolve a conflict, I ensure all parties formally acknowledge the resolution. (Lawful) 3 Selfishness. I use my way with words to benefit myself the most. (Evil) 4 Freedom. Tyranny is a roadblock to compromise. (Chaotic) 5 Avoidance. A kind word is preferable to the drawing of a sword. (Any) 6 Unity. It is possible to achieve a world without borders and without conflict. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I want to engineer a treaty with far-reaching effects in the world. 2 I am carrying out someone else’s agenda and making favorable arrangements for my benefactor. 3 A deal I brokered went sour, and I am trying to make amends for my mistake. 4 My nation treats everyone equitably, and I’d like to bring that enlightenment to other nations. 5 A traveling orator taught me the power of words, and I want to emulate that person. 6 I fear a worldwide conflict is imminent, and I want to do all I can to stop it. d6 Flaw 1 I always start by appealing to a better nature from those I face, regardless of their apparent hostility. 2 I assume the best in everyone, even if I have been betrayed by that trust in the past. 3 I will stand in the way of an ally to ensure conflicts don’t start. 4 I believe I can always talk my way out of a problem. 5 I chastise those who are rude or use vulgar language. 6 When I feel I am on the verge of a successful negotiation, I often push my luck to obtain further concessions.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

