# Disgraced Noble

**description**: Note: This variant modifies the Noble background from the Player's Handbook . ... And Losing Privilege Just as a lowborn character can gain a noble title, a highborn one can lose it. The simplest path to being stripped of a title is to be convicted of treason. However, in the Five Nations, nobles have duties, and a family who fails in those might be stripped of their title and property by their monarch. In the Lhazaar Principalities, a character could lose their title because someone else takes it by force. And countless Cyran nobles lost their holdings in the Mourning, then the Treaty of Thronehold effectively stripped them of their privileges. The following table provides inspiration for ways an adventurer’s family might’ve lost their title; while the table assumes an ancestor lost the title, it’s also possible the adventurer themself lost it. How Did You Lose Your Title? d6 Reason for Loss 1 Your ancestor attempted to kill the sovereign and failed. Do you know what drove them to attempt this crime? 2 Your ancestor was framed by rivals who now hold your rightful title and lands. What crime were they framed for? 3 Your domain was lost to an enemy during the Last War. Who holds it now? 4 Your ancestor worked with an enemy during the Last War and was convicted of treason. What were they trying to accomplish? 5 Your domain was abandoned after being seized by a supernatural force. Is it haunted by deadly undead or held by aberrations from Khyber? Was your ancestor responsible for this situation? 6 Your ancestor refused to uphold the laws of the land. Were they decadent, corrupt, or negligent? Or were they taking a principled stand? Should a player character be stripped of their title during a campaign, it’s up to the player and DM to decide how this affects their Position of Privilege. If the character is widely known and beloved, it’s possible the benefit lingers based solely on that goodwill. As a DM, if I removed the benefits of Position of Privilege, I'd grant a new feature to replace it, based on the circumstances of its loss. Was the noble convicted of treason because they opposed a tyrant? They might lose their Position of Privilege but gain the Rustic Hospitality feature of a folk hero … or perhaps the infamy of their deeds earns them the Bad Reputation of a pirate. The “Variant Noble: Disgraced” sidebar presents a background variant a DM could grant during a campaign, or that a player could choose for a new character who recently fell from grace. Variant Noble: Disgraced Though you’re a member of the aristocracy, your family has lost favor with its peers. The source of your disgrace might be a debt or defeat shared between all members of your house, or a particular family member might’ve been accused or convicted of heinous crimes. Feature: Scandalous Your family name and your alleged failures are known far and wide. Nobles and loyal commoners may put up a polite front as propriety demands, but they are inclined to think the worst of you. Meanwhile, there are plenty who seek to capitalize on your position. You can always seek a secret meeting with a noble who is not the current head of their house, or with a local criminal leader.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

