# Drifter

**description**: You are used to hearing the phrase, “You’re not from around here, are you?” The truth is, you aren’t. You’re from nowhere. You’ve spent most of your life wandering from planet to planet, earning your keep when need be and moving on when it’s time. You have your reasons. Maybe you were forced to leave. Maybe you just wanted to go. You keep moving, but always plan to stop someday… maybe… Skill Proficiencies: Perception, Survival Tool Proficiencies: One instrument or gaming set of your choice. One vehicle proficiency of your choice. Languages: One of your choice. Equipment: Traveler’s outfit, musical instrument or gaming set of your choice, electronic journal, trinket from a backwater planet, SIM Unit, 150 cubil. Origin Though you’ve been to a lot of places, everyone comes from somewhere. Consider who you were before you left all that time ago. You should also consider all the planets, starbases and space stations you’ve wandered through in your day and what you did to keep yourself warm and fed during those days. d8 Origin d8 Origin 1 Courier 5 Space Miner 2 Bounty Hunter 6 Mercenary 3 Guide 7 Vagrant 4 Nomad 8 Transporter Feature: Explorer You’ve been to many different worlds from the backwater to the megacities. You have a general sense of direction and can usually recall the layout of any wilderness or urban terrain. You can always manage to scrounge up some food and some makeshift shelter for you and a few of your companions. Suggested Characteristics Not used to being anywhere for any lengthy period of time, Drifters do not keep many attachments, and are often viewed as little more than a friendly stranger in each place they visit. Though they tend to keep others are arm’s length, they are always bound to run into people or places that remind them of where they came from, or the few places where they were made to feel at home before moving on. d8 Personality Trait 1 I’m driven to wander because I have nowhere to belong. 2 I lived a sheltered life and am desperate to see what the galaxy has to offer. 3 I have a story for every situation, taken from my many travels. 4 I treat my companions as if they were my little siblings. 5 I care little for excessive wealth. It will not bring you true happiness in the end. 6 I love blending in with a crowd because it prevents me from having to open up one on one. 7 I pick up worthless trinkets from places I visit, often losing them and replacing them with others. 8 I lose patience with self-important people who think they are any different than anyone else. d6 Ideal 1 Greater Good . It is the responsibility of individuals to work for the betterment of all. (Good) 2 Honor . By dishonoring myself, I dishonor my friends and companions. (Lawful) 3 Change . Times change. Things change. And so do we all. (Chaotic) 4 Might . Only the strongest come out on top. (Evil) 5 Eternity . No matter what we do, life and the universe will go on without us. (Neutral) 6 Glory . I must claim honor and respect for my name and those of my homeland. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My family and homeland are the most important things to me, even if I am far away from them. 2 I will bring terrible wrath to those who destroyed my homeland. 3 I brought shame to my people and will reclaim my place among them someday. 4 I am the last of my people, and it is up to me to make sure they are never forgotten. 5 I suffer from visions of a coming disaster and must do whatever it takes to prevent it. 6 I have been sent away from my home to fulfill a promise I do not know I can keep. d6 Flaw 1 I am enamored with alcohol and other addictive pleasures. 2 There is no room for caution in a life lived to the fullest. 3 I remember every insult I’ve received and nurse a silent resentment toward anyone who’s ever wronged me. 4 I am slow to trust members of other races or societies. 5 I have little control over my temper sometimes. 6 I hold little respect for the customs and practices of others, often to the point of rudeness.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

