# Engineer

**description**: Both the city of Kanrath and the city of Cyherested are technological centers of civilization in Tolia. Not only do all of their daily struggles concern technology, but the state of technology and thus the technological advancements in a city determine their political status as well, as both are in a race against the other in this regard. It’s no wonder that engineers are thus in high demand in Tolia. You, an engineer, have studied one of the most prestigious disciplines one could read up on. Whether you’ve graduated from an institute of higher education, had a master from whom you learnt your craft, or researched and studied everything on your own, you have rendered yourself a valuable commodity as someone who understands technology. No matter how you got started on this path, you now possess an ability most would gladly kill for in Tolia. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana or Investigation, and one other of your choice that uses either Intelligence or Dexterity as its modifier Tool Proficiencies: Tinker’s Tools, and one other of your choice: Smith’s Tools or Mason’s Tools Equipment: A dossier containing a certificate indicating your competence in the field, a set of common clothes, tinker’s tools, and a wallet containing 300 KF/CS Feature: In Demand There are many job opportunities in both cities and the metro tunnels for an engineer. It is easy for you to find a job and they mostly pay well. You can easily earn 20 KF/CS in a day. Suggested Characteristics You are a creature of logic and intelligence. Whether you were shaped into this as a result of your emotions being pushed to the limits or whether you’ve never had them in the first place, you believe in facts, numbers and realities. As an engineer, it’s your job to solve problems intellectually before applying the solutions you find to a manual reality. You may be in search of more power aiding the tyrannical powers of society in their quest to make a grimmer reality, or you can be a guerilla fighter aiding your kinspeople in their struggle against injustice; but one thing is for certain: you know from mechanisms. d8 Personality Trait 1 I believe I’m better than most. 2 Any display of emotion makes me uncomfortable. 3 I talk very little, only when I think it necessary. 4 I find solace in humor. 5 I want to rise against the system, but I don’t have the guts. 6 Symmetry is very important to me; I don’t like ugly things… including people. 7 If I have a mission, I can think of nothing else until I get it done. 8 I shut down at the sight of things that are obviously illogical. d6 Ideal 1 Greatest of Them All. I want to be the most successful engineer in Tolia, no matter the cost. (Evil or Neutral) 2 Educator. I want to get others on the path to engineering and train them. (Neutral) 3 Altruistic. I want to use technology for the greater good. (Good) 4 Seeking Revenge. I shall use technology to punish those who have wronged me. (Any) 5 Curious. I can’t help but think of all the realities technology can unlock. (Chaotic) 6 No Mercy. Knowledge is everything. Those without it deserve to die. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I trust my teacher above all else. 2 One of my parents was an engineer and I shall follow in their footsteps. 3 This region is lost; I shall find my way out. 4 I shall find a mineral to replace angst. 5 I live to make those I love proud and to protect them. 6 Blood experiments are awesome; my teacher assisted in their invention. d6 Flaw 1 I cannot stand non-intelligent beings. 2 I cannot function well in social situations. 3 I can’t stand angst addicts. 4 My excessive studies have driven me insane. 5 I hate all figures of authority. 6 I don’t feel whole if I’m not learning something or figuring something out.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

