# Envoy of the Free Peoples

**description**: You serve your people and perhaps a particular lord or household as a diplomat and an ambassador. You travel the length and breadth of Eredane, with the authority to speak on behalf of your people within the most secure halls of their allies. Among your own people, you hold a position of honor and respect. To the other free peoples, you are a symbol of future alliances and distant hope. Yet, to Izrador and his armies, you are a threat to be eradicated. Your role requires that you carry some mark of authority and license, bestowed upon you by your lord or people. This often takes the form of an object like a signet ring, a written letter, or a rod of office, but it can also be something more subtle like an easily hidden tattoo or brand. Should this mark ever be discovered by the Shadow’s forces, your life would be in great danger. Should it be taken from you, the evil use they could put it to would be unthinkable. Skill Proficiencies: History, Persuasion Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A set of traveler’s clothes, a set of fine clothes, a mark of your lords proxy (a signet ring or some other trinket that guarantees the authenticity of your service), a pouch containing 15gp Feature: Diplomatic Sanctuary Your mission frequently takes you into the realms of other free peoples and through the hostile territory that separates them. Should your mission be known to them, the free peoples of Eredane will welcome you into their safe havens and, should your mission require it, even to the audience of their lords and ladies. Suggested Characteristics Envoys are shaped by a life of great responsibility and danger. Their role demands that they work to form strong bonds between peoples and nations, yet they spend most of their lives separated from their own people. d8 Personality Trait 1 I never back down when the freedom and safety of the weak is at stake. 2 I use humor to relieve the stress that comes from my role against the Shadow. 3 I often share food and resources with others. 4 I have a tendency to brag about my exploits when around others sympathetic to the cause. 5 I find it hard to stay my blade when the enemy harms others, but it would be imprudent or deadly for me to intervene. 6 I have a love for life that sometimes comes off as innocence but is actually forged from hardship. 7 I enjoy being the underdog. 8 I hold my head high and refuse to weep for those lost in the fight. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom. The fight against Izrador's shackle is what is most important in life. (Chaotic) 2 Community. The dream of rebuilding a world after the passing of the Shadow keeps me in the fight. (Lawful) 3 Life. Saving even one life makes every sacrifice worthwhile. (Good) 4 Hatred. The atrocities committed by Izrador and his forces have motivated me to see them suffer. (Evil) 5 Wealth. Living on the run, tithing, and never having been able to really get ahead give me fantasies of living the good life if and when we are victorious. (Neutral) 6 Grit. After seeing so much suffering, fighting seemingly impossible battles, and losing so much, I have to keep going by sheer will and resolve. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 As I held a loved one, dying in my arms, I vowed to avenge them. 2 A legate in charge of collecting tithes from my village suspects that I may be up to something. 3 My companions mean everything to me and I would do anything for them. 4 Something important to me or my family was taken by a legate. When I have the strength, I will take it back. 5 Everything I have comes from the town that raised me. I intend to pay them back tenfold. 6 A childhood friend chose to join Izrador's forces. I know there is good in them and I intend to win them back. d6 Flaw 1 I quickly lose my temper and, when I do, make decisions that may put myself or others in danger. 2 I can be stingy and protective of my belongings. 3 I am less brave in the face of the enemy than my peers. 4 I will lie, cheat, and steal in order to survive. 5 I sometimes give too much of myself in order to help others. 6 Deep in my heart, I know all is lost. I am sometimes overcome by my melancholy.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

