# Ex-enforcer

**description**: You use violence so that powerful people can get what they want. Whether it’s for cops, cartels, or corporations, in exchange for a little bit of their power and a little bit of their money, you hurt who they tell you to. The work isn’t all dubious—you’re often up against people that are at least as bad as your boss—but when your boss sends you to shake down shopkeepers or punch protesters, you follow orders. As long as you and yours are fine, you don’t care. When you choose this background, work with your GM to determine who you worked for and what kind of work they had you do. Are you adventuring at their behest, or did you have a falling out? Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Perception Tool Proficiencies: One type of gaming set, vehicles (land) Equipment: A symbol of your boss’s authority, a well-worn cudgel (club), manacles, a waterskin of strong ale, a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp Maybe you decided that hurting innocent people for money wasn’t for you. Maybe you weren’t given the choice. Regardless, you no longer work for a boss. If you left on good terms, other enforcers still view you as one of their own. If you switched sides, you gain the benefit of One of Many from the people you formerly oppressed, instead of other enforcers. This should be a specific group, such as dockworkers or slum residents. Choose how you left your boss’s employ, or roll on the table below. D6 Turning Point 1 I was ordered to hurt a childhood friend and was fired when I refused. 2 I realized that I could make more money fighting for myself. 3 The boss died and a power struggle ripped their organization apart. 4 Another enforcer got hurt, and instead of taking care of them, the boss kicked them to the curb. 5 A job went wrong and a rival enforcer set me up to take the fall. 6 One day I woke up and I couldn’t look at myself in the mirror anymore. Feature: One of Many A clever boss convinces their enforcers that it’s them against the world; that they can only trust each other (and the boss), and that everyone else is the enemy. Other enforcers, even those that work for other bosses, see you as “one of the good guys”. They will offer you shelter and loan you basic equipment, so long as doing so doesn’t put them in obvious danger. They will also overlook any crimes you commit, unless it’s particularly egregious or harms them or their bosses. Suggested Characteristics Enforcers are defined by a willingness to put the desires of their bosses ahead of their own beliefs. They tend to be loyal and efficient but also isolated and untrusting D8 Personality Trait 1 I get angry when people don’t listen to me. 2 When I’m not sleeping, eating, or fighting, I’m lifting weights or running laps. 3 I’m covered in scars and will happily recount the fights that earned each one. 4 People that can’t defend themselves disgust me, and I make no effort to hide it. 5 I struggle to make important decisions for myself. 6 It’s hard for me to trust anyone I haven’t fought alongside. 7 I don’t like being alone, especially out in the open. 8 I have an insatiable yearning for others’ respect. D6 Ideal 1 Camaraderie. I’ll do anything to protect my friends and I trust they feel the same way. (Good) 2 Legalism. Society is built on a code of laws and it’s our duty to always follow that code. (Lawful) 3 Ends Justify. If a goal is worth achieving, anything done to further that goal is permissible. (Chaotic) 4 Greed. I don’t care about “right” and “wrong”; I care about coming home to the nicest house. (Evil) 5 Obedience. Things go smoother when I just show up and do what I’m told. (Neutral) 6 Pragmatism. The world is a dangerous, messy place. I do what I must to survive. (Any) D6 Bond 1 My family depends on the money I bring home. 2 The officer that recruited me saved me from a life of poverty. 3 I hurt an innocent person, badly, and I need to make it right. 4 There’s another enforcer that is always there to bail me out when I screw up. 5 My family has served the boss for generations and I’m honored to follow in their footsteps. 6 There’s a little tavern I go to after every job. It’s the only place I feel at ease. D6 Flaw 1 If someone challenges me to a fight, I can’t say no. 2 I can’t stand being wrong and will lie, cheat, or bluster to save face. 3 I’ve buried my guilt for so long that I’m not sure what genuine remorse feels like. 4 An attack against my beliefs is an attack against me personally. 5 I view everyone around me as expendable and struggle to form meaningful relationships. 6 I implicitly trust authority figures even when anyone else would know something is wrong.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

