# Executioner

**description**: You made a living from killing. Most criminals get away, so when they do catch them, those in charge like to make an example with a public spectacle. People weren’t exactly lining up for the job and most decent people understandably see this as undesirable work. You took to the work. Perhaps a forebear of yours, and one of their forebears before them had the job; and it has become a family profession. Perhaps it was an outlet for your darker desires that would have led you to the block. Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Medicine Tool Proficiencies: Your choice of dice or playing cards Languages: Thieves’ cant Equipment: A black hood, the tool you used for execution, a set of dice or playing cards that you took from a prisoner, an outfit stained with blood, a set of traveler’s clothes, a belt pouch containing 10 gp. Dark Reputation Because the job is so unseemly, you’ve spent your life living in the fringes of polite society; perhaps being forced to live outside the city. This social isolation led you to interacting with other outcasts to find friends. This has in turn meant your social circle includes lepers, prostitutes, and criminals that haven’t been caught or whose crimes aren’t severe enough to put them before you on a workday. This makes you even more of a pariah. Some executioners embrace their reputation, and revel in the fear that people have of them. They can sometimes use their position as a way to harm people and be able to avoid repercussions. D4 Dark Reputation 1 I executed an heir to the throne on the behest of their usurper, but the usurper was deposed and they called my actions a crime. 2 A moment of bloodlust led to me executing someone in a manner seen as too much and had me replaced by someone with more restraint. 3 As an apprentice, I was forced to practice on stray dogs to desensitize me. I kept it up after it was no longer expected. 4 The laws changed and my profession was seen as obsolete. Kindness was the new normal. Was it kindness to force me to retire? Being an executioner isn’t inherently evil, not all killing is murder after all (or at least, that’s what the people who hired you tell you). Some people come into the job like any other job, jobs need to be done and people need to work in order to make money to live. Sometimes though, the circumstances that arise from killing in the name of the state leads those with scruples away. Option: Righteous Resignation D4 Righteous Resignation 1 The people rose up against a tyrant and I was the one to kill them, but the loyalists retook power and now I am wanted. 2 A moment of hesitation during an execution led me being seen as inefficient and a liability in maintaining law and order. 3 As an apprentice, I was forced to practice on stray dogs to desensitize me. Killing people wasn’t difficult, but killing animals still pains me. 4 The laws of the land changed, favoring rehabilitation. I am relieved to be free from this burden. Feature: Inner Workings Within a settlement of sufficient size, you know whom to talk to and whom to ask to find out information about crime and punishment. Unless that information is intentionally being kept secret, you can always find out who is imprisoned, who is scheduled to die soon and also information about anyone who is currently wanted. People familiar with your background will volunteer this information just to get you to leave their presence sooner. Suggested Characteristics Executioners are often grim, whether in sense of humor, expression, or personality. Their sense of justice can also become skewed as part of their line of work, though whether it is stronger or weaker depends on the individual. D8 Personality Traits 1 I try to talk as little as possible, and when I do, I do not mince words. 2 I rarely smile, or show any outward emotion. 3 I prefer to let others make decisions for me, that way I have no blame when things go wrong. 4 Watching a person die hardly stirs me, but if someone harms an animal unnecessarily, watch out. 5 My speech is laden with foul language and impolite epithets. 6 Whenever I meet someone, I imagine what it would be like to execute them. 7 I find death to be humorous. When faced with death, I make terrible puns and bad jokes. 8 The apple doesn’t fall far from the tree, I will judge harshly and think poorly of people based on their parentage. D6 Ideals 1 Power. Life and death are most important when they are at my fingertips and within my control. (Evil) 2 Order. Laws are meant to be obeyed, it doesn’t matter if we think they are fair. (Lawful) 3 Apathy. If you don’t want to suffer the consequences, you shouldn’t commit crimes. (Neutral) 4 Retribution. The courts move too slowly, I know who is guilty and I should be able to punish people on my own. (Chaotic) 5 Redemption. Everyone should have a chance to make things right, my trade should be unnecessary. (Good) 6 Bloodlust. Nobody is innocent, nobody deserves forgiveness. (Evil) D6 Bonds 1 The one who taught me the trade was my first victim, I’ve never forgiven the one who ordered me to do so. 2 I have a child or sibling that I left behind, I hope to reunite with them someday. 3 I hope to someday, somehow, atone for the blood that is on my hands. 4 I once killed someone who was wearing a mask, legally, they had no name. I want to find out who they were. 5 I never want to see anyone forced to walk the same path as I have. The choice should not be taken lightly. 6 Someone was once pardoned right at the last minute, no doubt due to bribery. I vow to bring them to true justice. D6 Flaws 1 I drown myself in drink to dull the guilt of all the lives I’ve ended. 2 I genuinely enjoy killing, I enjoy it so much that it is hard to stop. 3 I’ve taken a bribe to fake an execution, certain members of the criminal underground know. 4 I’ve sold body parts to necromancers and other practitioners of the dark arts. 5 I obey legitimate authority, regardless of notions of “right or wrong”. 6 I don’t care if my macabre sense of humor makes others uncomfortable.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

