# Exile

**description**: Sometimes seen as a fate worse than death, exile has long been a popular sanction for radicals, dissidents, and troublemakers. Exiling these people allows the authorities to remove a thorn from their sides without creating a martyr or having to keep the unwanted person in costly perpetual captivity. Many a coup or revolution has resulted in the leaders and courtiers of the old regime being consigned to exile, sometimes on a moon or neighboring planet, sometimes on the other side of the ‘verse. On occasion, a person may choose exile voluntarily, either as an alternative to something worse or because they desire time on the Frontier to grow and develop. An exile has a unique opportunity to absorb foreign cultures and contact émigré communities while rallying support remotely. Living in exile might provide benefits that aren't available back home, such as the freedom to pursue otherwise forbidden love interests or take advantage of more lenient tax policies, either of which could deliver the impetus to accept a self-imposed exile. Exiles take to adventuring for a number of reasons. For some, their exile was only temporary, and now they seek to embark on a dangerous journey home, while others might seek to foment rebellion in absentia so as to be welcomed as liberating heroes on their return. Some exiles are gripped by wanderlust, traveling the world with a small group of companions. The unluckiest of all, however, might find themselves unwelcome everywhere, with no choice other than to continue wandering forever. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Survival Languages: Any two of your choice Equipment: A dagger, a small strongbox, a memento from your homeland, a set of common clothes, and a pouch containing 5 gp Feature: Exile Network You keep in touch with a network of exiles and expatriates, who possess an eclectic mix of skills and the durable spirit of pioneers. If you need to find someone with an unusual or specialized skill (such as art forgery, translation of ancient languages, or poison-brewing), you likely know where to find them. Variant Feature: Radical Sympathizers As a prominent figurehead for a group of religious, political, or ethnic radicals, you are often able to find people who sympathize with your situation. When you employ hirelings, they may offer you better rates, fanatical loyalty, or enhanced services. Reason for Exile You were exiled for a reason. Choose a ‘crime’ or roll on the table below to determine why you were forced to leave your home. d10 Crime 1 Opposition to political rulers 2 Tax exile 3 Religious dissent/radicalism 4 Sentenced to exile for serious crime 5 Death sentence commuted to exile after committing capital crime 6 Forbidden love 7 Refugee displaced by war or disaster 8 Escaping shameful failures committed at home 9 Fleeing false accusations 10 Self-imposed exile/journey of self-discovery Suggested Characteristics Being exiled is a deeply painful experience, and life as a stateless persona non grata is extremely challenging. Such a trial is sure to leave some marks on the exile’s personality. d8 Personality Trait 1 I jump whenever anyone knocks on my door. 2 I stand by my principles, rather than compromising them. 3 Hand-written letters are my preferred means of communication. 4 I am fascinated by different cultures. 5 I sometimes become pensive and withdrawn. 6 I have a lot of interesting and unusual friends. 7 I often reminisce about my years before exile. 8 I write a lot of poetry in my spare time. d6 Ideal 1 Homecoming. I hope to return to my homeland one day. (Any) 2 Liberty. I will live the way I want to! (Chaotic) 3 Peace. I will make the most of my time in exile, living a peaceable life. (Lawful) 4 Leadership. It is on me to lead my people through the wilderness. (Good) 5 Revenge. I must take revenge on those who cast me out! (Evil) 6 Refuge. In these dangerous times, I must focus solely on survival. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 I have made many good friends in the émigré community. 2 I still write to my family back home. 3 People count on me as a symbol of resistance. 4 I have started a new family in my adoptive homeland. 5 I cannot return home until I have found what I am looking for. 6 I am still wanted by the courts. d6 Flaw 1 I have trouble keeping my big mouth shut, and often end up ranting against my opponents. 2 I get in trouble with the law wherever I go. 3 I can’t seem to put down roots or form lasting connections anywhere. 4 My hatred for the people who exiled me sometimes crowds out reason in my head. 5 I prefer to work alone, and rarely seek compromise with others. 6 I’ve been away so long, I have lost touch with my family/culture/language.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Dark Matter Starter Kit

