# Exile of the Black City

**description**: Misto Cherno, also known as the Black City, is the traveling fortress that serves as capital to the villains and bandits of the plains. The size of the city changes to match the overall health of the Rothenian lands. In times of strife, turmoil, and war, the city grows, adding wagons and walls to accommodate the increase. During times of peace, the city's population shrinks. It is said that once Misto Cherno consisted of just four walled wagons. As long as there are those with few scruples, the Black City rolls. You are from this villainous place. Your story before finding a home among the Khazzak and Kariv bandits is yours to decide. What events led you to take a place by the fires of Misto Cherno? What choice did you have? Were you born inside the wooden walls? Perhaps you were a captive, taken in a raid by foul-tempered centaurs who thought to sell you to slavers—or worse. Now, and perhaps just this very hour, you have been exiled from Misto Cherno. Whether your exile was self-imposed or decreed by the lord herself, you are no longer welcome in the city of bandits. Perhaps you felt called to some other purpose. Perhaps you found a god in the smoke and the callous laughter of thieves. What has changed your heart, such that banditry no longer suits it? This road will be long. Many will not trust you. The dark and twisting tendrils from your time in Misto Cherno will always seek you. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Survival Tool Proficiencies: Thieves' tools, vehicles (land) Equipment: a set of traveler's clothes, a mule, two sacks containing a set of thieves' tools and 10 gp Feature: Know Evil Your time in the Black City left a mark on your spirit and your flesh. Dark deeds lie in your past, and you have a keen insight into the motivations of evil-aligned beings. Unless a creature's alignment is obscured by magical means, you know whether a creature's alignment is evil after interacting with it or for a minute or more. Also, you must choose the location on your body where the five-spoked wheel was branded into your flesh. Showing the mark to bandits, criminals, burglars, thieves, and other unsavory types (GM's discretion) grants you advantage on Charisma checks when dealing with them, but good folk are likely to turn against you if your past is revealed. Suggested Characteristics Exiles of the Black City have rejected their nefarious past. They strive toward redemption or anonymity in the general population. d6 Personality Traits 1 I don't often judge. 2 I am patient with those who express regret for their wrongdoing. 3 I am guarded and keep my feelings to myself. 4 I have a gallows' sense of humor, and respect the choices of others. 5 I am slow to express sympathy for the suffering of others. 6 My heart is hard, and little love is found in it. d6 Ideal 1 Forgiveness. I seek forgiveness for the wrongs I have done, and support others who do the same (Good). 2 Social Contract. Too late did I see the value of organized society, but I now value the unspoken rules of civilized folk (Lawful). 3 Might. In dark times, strength is the only important quality. (Evil). 4 Privacy. I value my right to privacy and keep out of other people's business (any). 5 Nihilism. I have seen the dark heart of mortals and have little regard for their plans and intentions (Chaotic). 6 Purpose. I have found a greater purpose in my life and pursue it at any cost (any). d6 Bond 1 I will have revenge upon those who organized my exile. Misto Cherno will burn. 2 I reject villainy—so long as I am present, none will be bullied or oppressed. 3 Power and riches will be mine; I will rise in station and tower over those who betrayed me. 4 My exile is a blessing and a gift. I will cleanse others of their evil so that they too might be delivered. 5 I must flee the Rothenian Plain, and abandon my former self, becoming an entirely different person. 6 One day, I will return to Misto Cherno and take over its rulership. d6 Flaw 1 I overcompensate for my evil past. 2 I almost never trust others, even those who are close and deserving. 3 I am prone to bouts of extreme violence when stressed—these displays may shock others. 4 I am often tempted by the quick rewards of criminal behavior. 5 Money is often enough to earn my allegiance. 6 I have trouble working in a team, and struggle to form relationships.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

