# Expanse Immigrant

**description**: Expanse Immigrant “No one’s ever going to drive me from my home again.” You’ve arrived in the Expanse hoping for a better life. You may have come to seek fortunes you never had, opportunities you were never given, or a peace you never knew. Regardless of the reason, you’ve endured hardship to reach the Expanse, and intend to make this wondrous place your home. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, Survival Tool Proficiencies: type of artisan’s tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A keepsake from where you grew up, a set of traveling clothes, one set of artisan’s tool, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp Bonus Trait: Inured to the Elements Officer Progression: If you use the optional Seafarer Advancement Rules (see chapter 7), you increase your officer station rank by one in your choice of boatswain or cook Feature: Survivor’s Scrabble You overcame many challenges, enduring a difficult journey to reach the Aetherial Expanse. You learned how to survive under the most difficult conditions and have started to build a life for yourself beside the Silvery Seas. You have advantage on Survival checks to gather food and water, and to understand environmental threats. Suggested Characteristics Expanse Immigrants are tough folk who don’t give up easily. Many are stoic, having endured numerous hardships, though others relied on their cheery dispositions to pull through tough times. They’re inclined to be protective of things they care about, as most have lost things of value to reach the Expanse. Personality Trait d8 Personality 1 I always find the silver lining, no matter how terrible the situation. 2 I’ve seen just about everything on my travels. Nothing can surprise me. 3 The Expanse is a magical, wondrous place. I want to experience all of it! 4 I still look over my shoulder, wondering if the troubles I fled have followed me here. 5 The gods must have blessed me for me to have found this place. 6 Planning is a waste of time. Taking action is all that matters. 7 I hold on to anything of value. I’ve already lost so much. 8 I find new people fascinating and can talk for hours with everyone I meet. Ideal d6 Ideal 1 Community. Caring for each other is how we overcome strife and hardship. 2 Independence. Here I am free. No one tells me what to do. 3 Perseverance. I never quit. Every setback pushes me to try harder. 4 Honor. The only sure thing is that I will always keep my promises. 5 Ambition. Now that I am in the Expanse, I will achieve greatness. 6 Might. My strength lets me overcome obstacles in my way. Bond d6 Bond 1 Someone sacrificed everything so that I could come here. I won’t let them down. 2 A kind stranger helped me in a time of need. I am to do the same for someone else. 3 I fled my home because I spoke out against tyranny. I will fight against it wherever I go. 4 I was once desperately poor. I will always help those in need. 5 I came to enact vengeance on someone who fled to the Expanse. 6 I will protect my companions with my life. Flaw d6 Flaw 1 I’m bitterly jealous of anyone who has more than I do. 2 I can’t trust anyone, not even those I love. 3 I’m quick to anger and won’t tolerate any kind of disrespect. 4 I’m deathly afraid of the creature that nearly killed me. 5 I abandoned a loved one to a terrible fate. 6 I am always right, and no one can change my thinking.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 32048

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

