# Experimented

**description**: Blood experiment is a common practice in Kanrath and Cyherested although they differ in each city. In Kanrath, the most common blood practice is leech therapy, where the scientists or the state officials drain “the dirty’’ blood and replace it with a more “clean” and “pure” one. It has little to no scientific accuracy but it is believed that it reveals powers that lie in one’s blood or that it provides the experimented with new powers related to blood. Most leech therapy victims die due to blood loss or the fact that their bodies cannot withstand the change in their blood. Cyherested is famous for its blood treatments, where multiple alchemical compounds are transferred into the experimented’s blood to reveal one’s sorcery abilities. The duration of the process varies. It can take hours or it can take months. What both practices have in common is the pain inflicted on the experimented, and the trauma experienced by the victims. You are an experimented; you’ve somehow lived through blood practices, or fled during the process. You may be a victim of blood practice or you may have wanted to have it done on your own. Skill Proficiencies: Medicine and one other skill of your choice Tool Proficiencies: Healer’s kit Equipment: A bag containing the details of your experiment, a set of common clothes, and a pouch containing 100 KF/CS Feature: Know Thy Enemy You understand the operational systems of the blood experiment mechanisms as you’ve spent time being a victim of one. You must make a DC 20 Intelligence check to remember the exact machinations of a blood experiment. You can operate a blood experiment mechanism on a success. Suggested Characteristics You keep your distance from the scientists and the state officials who were responsible for your pain in the first place. The pain you endured has given you lots of traumas that you try to overcome. You are extra careful around people because you find them to be inherently untrustworthy. d8 Personality Trait 1 I cannot shake off that I almost died. 2 I want to live out the rest of my life on my own. 3 I don’t like making small talk, what’s the point anyway? 4 Worldly pleasures make no sense to me anymore. 5 I try to find a cause in my life. 6 I am constantly in a state of sadness. 7 I seek ways of empowering myself further. 8 Watching others in pain triggers me. d6 Ideal 1 Unstoppable. I want to have more blood experiments done, as they can make me stronger. (Any) 2 Vengeful. I want to kill all scientists and officials who take part in the blood experiments. (Chaotic) 3 Healer. I want to find ways of helping the victims of blood experiments. (Good) 4 Patient. I seek ways of curing my traumas. (Neutral) 5 Curious. I must understand if blood experiments have given me powers or not. (Neutral) 6 Altruistic. Why not use blood experiments for the greater good? (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I will fight those who messed with my blood without my permission. 2 There was a scientist who helped me escape, I must find them. 3 This city is where I belong, I must help its citizens; they don’t deserve to undergo the pain I went through. 4 A friend of mine died during blood experiments, and I still mourn this loss. 5 I am stronger now, and the world must know it. 6 I must spread the word about the realities of blood experiments so that other people can be wary. d6 Flaw 1 My skin got paler, people sometimes confuse me with pale ones . 2 I stutter while speaking, I didn’t used to… not before the experiment. 3 I have physical wounds that do not heal. 4 I get into a frenzied state of mind when I see someone who practices blood experiments. 5 I want more blood experiments done on me to make me unstoppable, but it’s started to take a toll on my mental wellbeing. 6 I have post-traumatic stress disorder due to the experiments.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

