# False Apologizer

**description**: You have committed serious transgressions in the past, and you want to atone for them in meaningful ways—or so you’d have everybody believe. Secretly, you’re only apologizing because doing so allows you to continue your villainy behind a rehabilitated façade. What crimes have you committed? Work with your GM to determine how your atrocities fit into the story and what your actions mean for the people you harmed. As someone who is pretending to make honest amends, you could be adventuring to bring your victims something they need, or they could have sent you on a quest that you want to exploit for your own gain. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Stealth Tool Proficiencies: Forgery kit Languages: One of your choice Equipment: Forgery kit, a letter of agreement between you and the people you wronged, and a pouch containing 20 gp Reason for False Apology Every villain has their reasons. Choose or randomly determine why you are saying sorry by rolling on the Reason for False Apology table. D6 Reason For False Apology 1 I need to ingratiate myself with someone powerful, but they want me to apologize before they’ll consider talking to me. 2 It’s part of my punishment for the crimes I committed. 3 My victims have resources I want, and I need to build trust to access them. 4 I tried to get away with my villainous acts, but I was caught. Apologizing is the only socially acceptable option. 5 I am planning a comeback and the more convincing I can make this lie, the more dramatic and impactful my return will be. 6 It’s the only way to avoid being killed for my actions. Feature: Scum and Villainy Though your days of open villainy are over, you can still conduct business with discretion. You can keep your activities away from prying eyes by using the networks you built at the height of your villainy. Work with the GM to create two or three NPC contacts who you know and establish their jobs and locations. These NPCs are on good terms with you and view you as a reliable business partner. Whenever you work with one of these contacts, they can see to it that your unsavory activities remain hidden. Suggested Characteristics False apologizers are conscious of their reputations and are aware of what others might think of them. Some are guarded and insecure about their misdeeds, whereas others are more open and comfortable discussing their past. D8 Personality Trait 1 I proudly introduce myself as a former villain everywhere I go, and I enjoy the shocked reaction I receive every time. 2 I dress in unremarkable, plain clothing to show humility and sincerity, and I keep my weapons hidden. 3 I always tip shopkeepers and service workers. 4 I am unerringly polite, even when I am insulted. 5 I rarely apologize for mundane mistakes because I don’t want to cheapen the meaning of the apology for my villainy. 6 I can hold my own in battle against enemies three times my size. I’m confident in my combat prowess. I believe I can win any fight, no matter the odds. 7 I don’t help others for praise or thanks, but I never turn down a compliment. 8 I’m used to having others do things for me and I fumble with basic tasks. D6 Ideal 1 Choices. Actions matter more than words. (Any) 2 Honesty. Everyone must know the truth about what I did and what I am doing to atone for it. (Good) 3 Indifference. Third-party opinions are unimportant and irrelevant. (Neutral) 4 Justice. Those who were wronged should decide the perpetrator’s fate. (Lawful) 5 Power. Only the foolish accept apologies. (Evil) 6 Self-image. I’ll put myself in harm’s way if it makes me look more sympathetic. (Chaotic) D6 Bond 1 No matter how notorious I become, the people closest to me know who I really am, and that is all that matters. 2 The people I hurt deserve everything I can give them, and more. I care only for myself and my good deeds are incidental.. 3 My victims gave me a second chance, and I will never forget their kindness. 4 My life belongs to the community I serve. 5 I must impress someone of a higher social standing than me. 6 The people in my hometown face unfair prejudices because of me and I’ll correct that. D6 Flaw 1 I miss my days of true villainy, when I had the power to do what I wanted with impunity. 2 I could walk away from my apology any time I want, and I am sometimes tempted to do so. 3 I talk about my villainous past a bit too casually. 4 I’m still not used to being held accountable and my immediate impulse is to defend myself from any accusation. 5 Being told that my efforts aren’t good enough puts me in a foul mood. 6 I constantly have to curb my desire to be the center of attention.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

