# Feral One

**description**: You abandoned civilization, or civilization abandoned you, for the Forest long ago. Regardless of whether it was by choice or by chance, the effect on you is the same. You live, hunt, eat, and sleep in solitude. Caves are your shelter, the ground your bed, and the creatures of the Forest your companions. You have learned that you can trust no one but yourself and that you will live, and ultimately die, by your Skills, wits, and Strength. The Forest Provides Having spent most of your life within the Forest providing for yourself, you have learned how to Forage, hunt, and fish well enough to ensure your Survival in a Forest. If you spend 2 hours investigating game trails, spoor, and foliage in a Forest, you are able to procure enough food to feed yourself and up to four others for one day. In addition, you are able to determine if any water you find in the Forest is potable. D8 Personality Trait 1 I will never forget being hungry in the winter. I field dress beasts that fall to blade or arrow so that I am never hungry again. 2 I may be alone in the forest, but I am only ever lonely in cities. 3 Walking barefoot allows me to interact more intuitively with the natural world. 4 The road is just another kind of wall. I make my own paths and go where I will. 5 Others seek the gods in temples and shrines, but I know their will is only revealed in the natural world, not an edifice constructed by so-called worshippers. I pray in the woods, never indoors. 6 What you call personal hygiene, I call an artificially-imposed distraction from natural living. 7 No forged weapon can replace the sheer joy of a kill accomplished only with hands and teeth. 8 Time lived alone has made me accustomed to talking loudly to myself, something I still do even when others are present. D6 Ideal 1 Change. As the seasons shift, so too does the world around us. To resist is futile and anathema to the natural order. (Chaotic) 2 Conservation. All life should be preserved and, if needed, protected. (Good) 3 Acceptance. I am a part of my forest, no different from any other flora and fauna. To think otherwise is arrogance and folly. When I die, it will be as a leaf falling in the woods. (Neutral) 4 Cull. The weak must be removed for the strong to thrive. (Evil) 5 Candor. I am open, plain, and simple in life, word, and actions. (Any) 6 Balance. The forest does not lie. The beasts do not create war. Equity in all things is the way of nature. (Neutral) D6 Bond 1 When I lose a trusted friend or companion, I plant a tree upon their grave. 2 The voice of the forest guides me, comforts me, and protects me. 3 The hermit who raised me and taught me the ways of the forest is the most important person in my life. 4 I have a wooden doll, a tiny wickerman, that I made as a child and carry with me at all times. 5 I know that the ways of civilizations rise and fall. The forest and the Old Ways are eternal. 6 I am driven to protect the natural order from those that would disrupt it. D6 Flaw 1 I am accustomed to doing what I like when I like. I’m bad at compromising, and I must exert real effort to make even basic conversation with other people. 2 I won’t harm a beast without just cause or provocation. 3 Years of isolated living has left me blind to the nuances of social interaction. It is a struggle not to view every new encounter through the lens of fight or flight. 4 The decay after death is merely the loam from which new growth springs—and I enjoy nurturing new growth. 5 An accident that I caused incurred great damage upon my forest, and, as penance, I have placed myself in self-imposed exile. 6 I distrust the undead and the unliving, and I refuse to work with them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 16

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Margreve Player's Guide

