# Finagler

**description**: "With strangers you apply the law, with friends you interpret it." - Saying among the Finaglers - The finagler is a bit of a symbol of the Kingdom’s civil life and bureaucracy: a fixer, a notary, a pettifogger, and a hack, a fine connoisseur of laws and red tape, and therefore perfectly capable of circumventing them, infiltrating the system, and turning it inside out. Halfway between public and private, the finagler is the go-to official for Knaves confronting the law, the nobility, and justice because – while being Knaves themselves – they are perfectly integrated into the system and know how to interact with, persuade, and corrupt everyone else: guards, Royal Bounty agents, and big shots. Skill Proficiencies : Investigation, Persuasion Tool Proficiencies : Forgery Kit Languages : Macaronic Equipment : A copy of their home region’s book of laws, a bottle of black ink and a pen, a parchment, a set of fine clothes, and a pouch containing 20 sp. Feature: Trouble Solver You have a comprehensive knowledge of the laws and the mechanisms related to the functioning (or malfunctioning) of the Kingdom’s Justice. You are the right Knave when it comes to "fixing" not-too-serious legal disputes. You can remove one of your Misdeeds or that of a member of your company. In order to do that, a cost equal to the Bounty value of the Misdeed you want to remove must be paid. This feature must be used before the Misdeed is added to a character's Bounty by the authorities. Suggested Characteristics Finaglers are colorful characters who often speak Macaronic or technical jargon, know all sorts of quibbles, codicils, and loopholes, and constantly come up with alternative and contradictory interpretations of laws and customs. They love precision and order, read and write perfectly, and are fond of pointing this out. They tend to act aloof and see themselves as superior to the more common Knaves, and in companies they typically cover the roles of accountants, notaries, scribes, and yeomen. d8 Personality Trait 1 I am a master of the fine art of the jibber-jabber and I try not to miss a single occasion to run it on the first guy that comes along. 2 I take on every favor request I receive. Of course, I also accept payment in kind. 3 I am mainly interested in the analysis of the law. I've collected many written documents that I like to carefully study in my spare time. 4 I often utter phrases and mottos in Macaraonic, to show off my erudtion. 5 I love to deal with influential people, especially when I manage to silence personalities such as nobles and ordinals. 6 They call me the patron saint of lost causes. I frequently get stuck trying to solve the most complex and tricky dilemmas. 7 With this silver tongue of mine, I could even sell ice to the varags. 8 I have a pompous stage name I used to be called when I was practicing the profession. d6 Ideal 1 Equal Opportunity. Even the poor and the unfortunate have the right to defend themselves from injustice. (Good) 2 Equality. Laws, conditions, and treatments must be the same for everyone. (Lawful) 3 Justice Among Thieves. Knaves also have the right to defend themselves against unfair laws and abuses by any means possible. (Chaotic) 4 Devil's Advocate. I have no problem defending or assisting the worst tyrant or criminal, as long as I'm getting paid. (Evil) 5 Equanimity. The peaceful acceptance of sins, crimes, punishments, and all the methods to avoid them. (Neutral) 6 Order. The world and the universe should operate like a well-oiled mechanism. Any element acting against this perfect pattern should be removed. (Any) d6 Bond 1 The rhetoric and law professor who taught me the fine art of the con. 2 I have a sibling who sees me as a fraud and hates me because I have betrayed my profession to become a Knave. 3 The strong and respected leader I used to work for as an advisor. 4 The man who forced me to betray my profession and become a Knave. 5 The person I've not been able to save with my silver tongue still lies in jail. 6 The love of my life was killed because of my profession. d6 Flaw 1 I am both greedy and stingy, and I choose whether to take a job or not based on the petechins I could make out of it. 2 I am haughty, pompous, and presumptuous; there is nothing that I don't know or that I don't pretend to know. 3 I want to become the company leader one day, and I will do everything to achieve my goal. 4 No matter the subject, I will always have the last word. 5 I think only for myself, and I am ready to leave behind or betray everyone else at the earliest opportunity. 6 I regard the other Band members as my personal minions.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

