# Flaming Fist

**description**: You have joined the Flaming Fist, a powerful mercenary company headquartered in Baldur’s Gate, where it serves as the city’s primary law enforcement and military. Lower-ranking fists patrol the Lower City or are assigned to missions elsewhere, while senior officers may act as commanders in battle or intimidating bodyguards for high-profile negotiations. If you’ve relinquished your ties to the Flaming Fist, you can reenlist at any time. However, so long as you collect wages, you must serve the Flaming Fist dutifully or be held accountable to the Grand Dukes of Baldur’s Gate. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Intimidation Tool Proficiencies: One type of gaming set, vehicles (land) Equipment: A Flaming Fist uniform, an insignia of your rank, a gaming set of your choice, and a pouch containing the remainder of your last wages (10 gp) Feature: Tighten the Grip As a member of the Flaming Fist, you can enact justice on behalf of the organization or the city of Baldur’s Gate. If you compel a creature to surrender or knock it unconcious (see chapter 9, “Combat,” of the Player’s Handbook ) you may choose to place it under arrest. Additionally, you may confiscate any of an arrested creature’s possessions or contraband on behalf of the Flaming Fist. At your DM’s discretion, your commanding officer may allow you to keep a portion of these items as payment. Advancement The Flaming Fist maintains a military hierarchy with six ranks, not including the Grand Dukes of Baldur’s Gate. As your character furthers the goals of the Flaming Fist, they may gain renown (see chapter 1, “A World of Your Own,” of the Dungeon Master’s Guide for more information on renown) and advance in rank. Flaming Fist Ranks Rank Name Role 1 Fist Private 2 Gauntlet Corporal 3 Manip Sergeant 4 Flame Lieutenant 5 Blaze Major 6 Marshal General Suggested Characteristics As a mercenary company, the Flaming Fist enlists a multitude of individuals throughout Faerûn. While the majority of Flaming Fist agents are based in Baldur’s Gate, the organization—and by extension, the city—has extensive reach, with active forces as far south as Chult. As an agent of the Flaming Fist, your identity may have been shaped by other members, the area in which you operate, or a particularly treacherous mission. d8 Persona lity Trait 1 I like to make an example of those who step out of line. 2 As long as I’m compensated fairly, I’ll carry out any task without question. 3 I love a good flogging. 4 I use my ties to the Flaming Fist to influence others and get what I want. 5 I have a hot temper and a short fuse. I’m working on it. 6 Actions speak louder than words. 7 I go out of my way to prove I’m not like the other members of the Flaming Fist. 8 The fists are underpaid, and I’m trying to start a union. d6 Ideal 1 Redemption. Everyone deserves a second chance. (Good) 2 Order. Respect the badge, or you’ll respect the club. (Lawful) 3 Punishment. Violence is the solution to preventing recidivism and copycats. (Evil) 4 Greed. My services are for sale to the highest bidder. When there’s treasure involved, that bidder is me. (Chaotic) 5 People. I’m committed to the people of Baldur’s Gate, not the Grand Dukes who pay my wages. (Neutral) 6 Aspiration. Only by climbing the ladder can I bring about lasting change. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I joined the Flaming Fist to find a criminal who wronged me long ago. Every mission is a potential new lead. 2 I signed a contract stamped by the Council of Four to accomplish a special task. They own me until my deed is done. 3 I have a friend or family member within the organization. I joined to make sure they don’t get in over their head. 4 I have a different vision for the Flaming Fist. Rising in rank is the only way I’ll ever make a difference. 5 I’ve seen my share of problems in Baldur’s Gate. It’s my job to make the city a better place. 6 My reputation is spotless, and I intend to keep it that way. d6 Flaw 1 I always have to have the last word. 2 I sometimes get carried away when administering punishment to those who violate the law. 3 I got where I am by backstabbing someone else. I’m paranoid that I’ll meet the same fate. 4 On occasion, I’ll turn a blind eye in exchange for a bribe. 5 I go easy on those I deem weak. 6 I judge anyone with a criminal record.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Anthony Joyce-Rivera

**book**: Baldurs Gate - The Fall of Elturel

