# Forest Hamlet - Commoner

**description**: In some forests, reality blends and shifts, and spirits whisper to one another in the murk. If one enters a forest unprepared, it is only a matter of time before such a person succumbs to either the whims of the spirits or the will of the wilds. Verdant and lush, forests resound with the melody of birdcalls, rustling leaves, and creaking wood as ancient trees settle into the soil. A wise person learns to live with the wild, perhaps even tame it a little, but they always absorb a bit of that wildness into themselves. In turn, the forests draw outcasts: bandits, hermits, and whole villages that wish to be left out of battles between warring nobles. These people develop their own idiosyncratic cultural practices, esoteric rituals, and even words, all influenced by the might of nature. Travelers often claim that trolls, tengu, and strange human-sized serpents still live in the forests. While “sophisticated” city folk scoff at these stories, those who live among the trees know better. Skill Proficiencies: Survival, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, or Perception). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool, mounts. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes, any one tool, dagger or hatchet, and 7 sp. Suggested Feats: Clarity in Solace, Laborer’s Endurance, Survivalist’s Eye. Background Feature: Worldly Wisdom As a resident of a particular region, you have the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your place of origin. You can name major families, prominent merchants, and other leaders in the region as well as their respective positions and allegiances. You know the layout and local residents in the neighborhood where you grew up or where you live now, along with any unusual features, shortcuts, or hidden wonders in your home region. You have knowledge of the impact of crime, poverty, or political unrest that you have experienced in your homeland. You know the trade that you grew up around extremely well, even if you do not practice it yourself. This might be woodcraft, hunting, or fishing in a rural village, commerce or artisanry in a bustling city, agriculture in a farming town, or sailing in a seaside port, to name only a few examples. You can always figure out where to go to get work when in your home region or a similar area.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

