# Former Slave

**description**: Along with countless others, you were captured by the Shadow’s legions and enslaved, put to work to feed and arm Izrador’s war machine. Maybe you lived in the north and saw the legions’ destruction of your society as they moved south and occupied your empty cities. Or perhaps you were an inhabitant of central or southern Erenland and were swept up by one of the many slaver patrols capturing anyone they could to toil for the Shadow. You may have even been born into captivity. Regardless of your origin, you are determined not to end your days laboring for the Shadow’s evil schemes. You may be plotting to escape your bonds and liberate your fellow captives, or perhaps you are content to pretend to remain “enslaved” while you plot to bring down the Shadow from within. Or maybe you became free long ago, and now you fight with the hatred of all who would enslave another burning within your breast. Few elves and dwarves are enslaved because the legates’ orders are to kill them on sight (or to interrogate and then kill them). Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Deception Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools Equipment: A ragged set of common clothes, 50 feet of hemp rope, a basic tool such as a light hammer or sickle, and a pair of shackles Feature: Knowledge of the Enemy Your time enslaved by the Shadow has taught you much about how the enemy lives and operates. You know the basics of how most legion military encampments, fortifications, and occupied towns are organized and guarded. You also know the means by which other enslaved people pass messages in their captivity, and you can send messages to them without being noticed. Suggested Characteristics While enslaved individuals may seem cowed and broken by the harshness of their captivity, some simply hide their inner strength beneath a veneer of servitude. An enslaved person may seem meek and harmless—right up until they are able to wrap their shackles around their oppressors’ throats. d8 Personality Trait 1 Although I can speak perfectly well, I pretend I cannot so that others do not notice me. 2 Although I am captured, I’ll never break. Turn your back on me at your peril! 3 My friendly demeanor always masks my true feelings about those around me. 4 I’m always ready with an encouraging word or helping hand for any who share my fate. We’re all in this together, and that’s how we’ll get out. 5 Patience is the best way to achieve freedom—and revenge. I can wait as long as I need to. 6 People die constantly in this life, and it’s best not to get too close to anyone. 7 Even in these dark days, I dream of a brighter future ahead. 8 Captivity has only made me hold tighter to the customs of my culture. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom: No one should be oppressed and enslaved—not by the Shadow and not by anyone else. (chaotic) 2 Revenge: I am going to ensure that those who enslaved me regret their actions for the rest of their short and painful lives. (any) 3 Inspiration: My freedom is something I have won. I want to inspire others to do the same. Let’s rise up and take back what is ours! (good) 4 A Simple Life: I just want to restore the simple and peaceful life I had before the Shadow took everything from me. (any) 5 Greater Understanding: I learned during my enslavement that under the Shadow, all beings are slaves to darkness. By defeating the Shadow, we can defeat the darkness within us. (lawful) 6 Individualism: I’m not defined by my ordeal. I say what I am and what I am not. (any) d6 Bond 1 A relative or friend of mine was also forced to labor for the Shadow, and they were taken away from me. I won’t rest until I find and free them. 2 I labored under a particularly cruel enslaver for many years. I want to kill them and to make sure they know I’m the one who did it. 3 I owe the resistance fighters who freed me my life. I will fight alongside them until the end. 4 I escaped captivity with a companion who did not survive the attempt. I still feel guilty that I lived and they did not. 5 Every enslaved person I free and lead to the mountains or the forest is one more soldier in the fight against the Shadow and one less laborer supporting Izrador. 6 I convinced a guard that what they were doing was wrong, and they helped me escape enslavement. Perhaps other minions of the Shadow can be convinced to see the error of their ways? d6 Flaw 1 I wake up every night with terrible nightmares of the horrible things I saw during my captivity. 2 I have repressed the memories of my experiences. If anyone asks about them, I angrily demand that they leave me be. 3 I reflexively say what I think people want to hear, rather than what I want to tell them. 4 When it comes to food and supplies, I always try and take more than my fair share and stockpile it for a rainy day. 5 When danger comes, my first instinct is always to hide. 6 My white-hot hatred for my old captors blinds me and keeps me from making sound decisions.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

