# Fortune Teller

**description**: You have spent your life traveling with the circus as the resident fortune teller. You delight in the wonder-filled eyes of patrons, as you make predictions about their future and offer insightful glimpses into their past. You love to make an extravagant performance, gazing into a crystal ball, laying out tarot cards, or reading palms to make your predictions. Predicting one’s future can be a heavy burden, but you know it’s just as much about the spectacle as it is the art itself. Skill Proficiencies : Insight , Performance Languages : Two of your choice. Equipment : A non-magical crystal ball, a deck of tarot cards or a small bag of bones, a set of traveller’s clothes, and 5 gp. Feature: Uncanny Insight You’ve spent years studying the hopes and desires of others. This study offers you an almost otherworldly ability to read people. As long as a creature is not hostile towards you, you can make Wisdom (Insight) checks against that creature at advantage. Suggested Characteristics Being a fortune teller takes a special sort of person. Whether their power is mystical or manufactured, their goal is always to offer insight into life beyond what is readily apparent. d8 Personality Trait 1 My gentle attentiveness offers a calming presence. 2 I take pleasure in offering others hope and excitement for the future. 3 I have a part to play in the lives of those I encounter. 4 I am used to constant travel, staying in one place for too long makes me uneasy. 5 I can easily empathize with others, and hope that my guidance brings them comfort. 6 The only way to be sure is to consult the bones. 7 I believe in many possible futures; anything I predict is not concrete until it has come to pass. 8 If I am uncertain about the future, then answers can sometimes be found in the stars. d6 Ideal 1 Faith. I know what I have seen must be true: it is my gift. (any) 2 Tradition. If there is a traditional way of doing things, I must adhere to that order. (lawful) 3 Freedom. My talents allow me to come and go as I please. Obligations are a distraction. (chaotic) 4 Mastery. I must refine my abilities to predict the future, no matter the cost. (evil) 5 Live and Let Live. It is not up to me to pass judgement on my visions, only to communicate what I have seen. (neutral) 6 Entertainer. My life is a show and I must keep others entertained. (any) d6 Bond 1 If I believe I can help, then I must. 2 I will make sure my name inspires awe in others. 3 It is my duty to guide others to an ideal future. 4 My only true family is the one I made traveling with the circus. I owe everything to them. 5 I am always learning, and everyone I meet has something they can teach me. 6 What I have seen will come to pass; it must. d6 Flaw 1 My devotion to my craft has taught me to always express my true opinion, even if that may be painful to hear. 2 If I am unsure about what I have seen I will lie, to protect my reputation. 3 My gift feels more like a curse which sometimes overwhelms me. 4 I would rather face exile than admit that I am wrong. 5 Once I have made up my mind about a course of action I will not be swayed. 6 If I can divine your heart’s desires, I will not hesitate to use them to exploit you.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Escape Plan Games

**book**: Tavern Tales Vol 1 - A Trip Away Inn

