# Freedom Fighter

**description**: Your lands may have been occupied by the Shadow’s legions. Your life may have been taken from you by the Shadow. Your friends and family may still be living under the constant threat of oppression and death. But you chose not to go quietly into the night. You fight the Shadow in one of the many resistance groups across Eredane. Many groups of freedom fighters are scattered across the occupied lands. You may be one of the Dorns or Sarcosan freeriders who harass the Shadow’s convoys and patrols on the wide northern tundra or sweeping southern plains. You may fight under the flag of House Norfall, sailing with the free navies of the Sea of Pelluria. Or perhaps you worked to undermine the Shadow from within as part of the gnome smuggling and information networks or as a spy or saboteur in the occupied cities. Whatever your experience, you have already spent years working against the Shadow. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, Investigation Tool Proficiencies: Disguise kit or forgery kit or poisoner’s kit Equipment: A disguise kit, a forgery kit, or a poisoner’s kit; nondescript clothing; a dark cloak and hood; and a belt with a hidden pouch Feature: Sympathetic Ally You have one ally in the occupied lands who is sympathetic to your cause. They try to provide you with food and information about the locale they live in whenever possible. You and that person have reliable (but slow) means of exchanging messages, and you can count on them for accurate intelligence. In a dire situation, they may also be able to hide you for a couple of days. Suggested Characteristics Freedom fighters must be fearless. They know that only a slow death awaits anyone who works against the Shadow, and yet they carry on the fight anyway. Many freedom fighters must also be pragmatic and cold, however. The legates are cunning foes who often try to infiltrate resistance networks using spies, informants, or even magical means. The freedom fighters who survive are the ones who are careful and cautious, never entirely trusting anyone. d8 Personality Trait 1 Trust is a good way to get yourself killed. I always sleep with one eye open, even when amongst “friends.” 2 I plan out every action twice over before I take it. 3 It may be a short life and a dangerous one, but I openly relish every day I can ride free against Izrador. 4 I’m impatient and tired of skulking about. When will we strike a true blow for freedom? 5 If I stopped to consider the odds, I would be dead a dozen times over. Bold actions shall carry me through the day. 6 I stay cool and collected, no matter what the situation is. 7 I can’t stop talking about the days before the Last Age, and what great things people will do when Izrador is defeated once again. 8 A lifetime of paranoia has left me grim, touchy, and generally unfriendly. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom: When the Shadow is broken, we can build a new world where everyone is free and no person is forced to bow before another. (Chaotic) 2 The Lost Kingdoms: I look to see the rightful rulers of these lands restored, and the lost kingdoms rebuilt. (Lawful) 3 The Resistance: The fight against Izrador is bigger than me or you. I may die, but if I do, I know that the resistance continues. (Any) 4 Faith: If one god can exist on Aryth, then others must exist as well. Just because they don’t help us doesn’t mean I don’t believe in them. (Lawful) 5 Liberty: I live for the day when the legates are hung from their obsidian towers, and the peoples of Eredane rejoice in their towns and villages. (Good) 6 Blood: Every servant of the Shadow who falls to my blade is a victory. Every collaborator deserves a traitor’s fate. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 One of the Shadow’s legions has built a camp in the ruins of my old village. I long for the day that I can see that camp burn and kill ten legionaries for each of my neighbors who was slain. 2 An army fights on its stomach. Raiding supply lines isn’t glamorous, but I believe every caravan we destroy does more damage than a dozen pitched battles. 3 I know the people of a nearby community yearn to rise up. I am slowly trying to inspire and lead them into open rebellion when the time is right. 4 One day I hope to join the dwarves or the elves and fight in their ranks against the Shadow. 5 A legate terrorizes my neighbors and has killed my friends. Their death will show Izrador’s lackies that they’re the ones who should fear us. 6 I was careless with my words, and some members of the resistance were killed because of it. I won’t ever let that happen again. d6 Flaw 1 If you’re not with us, you’re against us. Anyone who doesn’t fight against the Shadow is a collaborator. 2 I keep secrets from everyone, even my allies, as a matter of habit. 3 If I have doubts about someone’s loyalties, or if they are secretly a spy, it’s safer to kill them. 4 The villagers and townsfolk must keep us supplied and hidden. If they suffer reprisals from Izrador’s forces, I can’t be blamed. 5 I tend to trust what people tell me. Why would someone lie? 6 Most recruits to the resistance die quickly. I won’t get close to you until you’ve proven you can survive.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

