# Fugitive

**description**: Outcasts; prison, galley or forced-labor escapees; deserters from armies and mercenary companies; on the run after attacking a guard or an aristocrat: whether rumors about them are true or false, fugitives are accused of escaping from the Kingdom’s “justice”, and when they join a company, it’s because they have no other prospects. Skill Proficiencies : Stealth, Survival Languages : Racket Equipment : A dagger, a memento from your past life, a set of traveler's clothes, a pouch with 10 sp. Feature: Outcast Your Bounty is higher than usual, due to a serious misdeed that has been (fairly or unfairly) attributed to you, along with some aggravating factors. d10 Outcast Outcast 1 Evasion 6 Assault on a Guard 2 Desertion 7 Sedition 3 Betrayal 8 Riot 4 Public Execution Interruption 9 Brigandage 5 Resisting Arrest 10 Pillage Your Bounty increases by 100 gp. Suggested Characteristics Fugitives are Knaves hunted early in the game, with Bounties probably higher than their companions’. They could be poor wretches unjustly accused of wrongdoings they never committed; people who rebelled against injustice; idealists who sided against guards and pretentious nobility; or downright criminals who won’t let others push them around. d8 Personality Trait 1 I keep a low profile and I always watch my back. 2 I definitely avoid talking to guards and notables, if possible. 3 I don't trust anyone, and I'm always afraid that someone will report me. 4 I can't stand authority and justice, because they always operate against poor people only! 5 Every time I enter an enclosed area, I start checking all the escape routes available. 6 I am sympathetic to those who are persecuted by the law. 7 If I stay too long in the same place, I start to get nervous, and I look for a way to move somewhere else. 8 I've got a plan to leave this county and find a place where they don't have my face hanging on every damn tavern wall! d6 Ideal 1 Solidarity. The poor and wretched should be helped or left alone. (Good) 2 Justice. One day, the powerful will be subject to the law like everyone else. (Lawful) 3 Freedom. There is no real freedom for those who cannot go where they want or try to redeem themselves. (Chaotic) 4 Indifference. Everyone can go to Hell! The only thing I care about is never having chains on my wrists again, and there's nobody I wouldn't kill to keep my freedom. (Evil) 5 Common Sense. What is the point in having a system of laws, if those who enforce them are often worse than those who break them? (Neutral) 6 Ambition. Someday I'll find proof of my innocence, or enough Big Pieces to pay off my debt. (Any) d6 Bond 1 Friendships born between prisons' walls cannot be broken. 2 The memories of a loved one are the only bond I have to the life I used to have before, that life I ran away from. 3 There's somebody who saved my life helping me escape. Today, I still feel I owe everything to that person. 4 Those who no longer have anyone build fraternal relationships with their companions. That's how allies become family. 5 Even knowing who I was and the kind of things I was running from, someone treated me kindly. I'll never forget that. 6 Sooner or later, I'll take my revenge. The cause of all my troubles will have to choose whether to repay me in gold or blood! d6 Flaw 1 I can no longer bear any restriction, not even from my companions 2 I've tried, but after that bloody betrayal, I believe I really can't trust anyone anymore. 3 I often have nightmares and disturbing recollections of my time in jail. 4 I have obsessions and phobias related to the traumas I've suffered. 5 Because of all that happened, I no longer respect authority. 6 I still hold a hell of a grudge toward those who made me a fugitive. I always end up hating everybody who reminds me of them

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

