# Ghost Knight (Midgard)

**description**: You joined the Ghost Knights of Morgau, also known as the Order of the Knights Incorporeal, either willingly or as a result of being conscripted, and were bound in service to an officer in the order—most likely a vampire, darakhul, or priestess of the Red Goddess. As a humble foot soldier, you almost certainly took part in the brief and bloody war to seize the Electoral Kingdom of Krakova for the Principalities, fighting alongside both undead troops and living warrior-priests of Mavros and Marena. Your bravery in battle and loyal service mean you are next in line to enter the ranks of the undead, joining the Order of the Red Shield as an Initiate Brother or Sister. But unlife as a ghoul or vampire spawn doesn’t appeal to you, so you’ve decided to strike out on your own and leave the Order behind. Perhaps you were given an honorable discharge in recognition of your diligent service and released from your obligations, or maybe you simply deserted. Either way, your time in the ghost knights taught you much about the undead and the art of war in Morgau. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Intimidation Tool Proficiencies: One type of gaming set Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A tabard displaying the Order’s insignia (a skull on a red background), a battle trophy (perhaps a Krakovan banner or a broken shield), a gaming set of your choice, and a pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: When the Going Gets Tough Keeping up with fast-moving ghoul soldiers taught you how to march at a brisk pace without losing awareness of your surroundings and to keep going for longer. You can move at a fast travel pace outdoors without suffering a penalty to your passive Wisdom (Perception) score, and you can travel for up to 10 hours per day before risking exhaustion. Suggested Characteristics Ghost knights have been through a lot while serving in the armies of Morgau—the horror of what they see while fighting among the undead leaves a lasting impression on their personalities. It’s hard not to become scarred by what they’ve experienced, but many ghost knights go on to develop strong ideals or form long-lasting bonds as a result of their time in the order. d8 Personality Traits 1 Before going into battle, I always make sure my sword is sharp and my armor has been polished until it gleams. 2 What I saw on the battlefields of Krakova still haunts me to this day. 3 However grim the situation, I try and find the humor in it to keep my comrades’ spirits up. 4 Ever since I joined the Ghost Knights, I prefer to sleep all day and be active during the night. 5 I swear a lot. It keeps me fucking sane. 6 Only an idiot blindly follows orders. 7 I like to tell stories of my military exploits and am not afraid to embellish my tales to make them more exciting. 8 If in doubt, stab first and ask questions later. d6 Ideal 1 Greater Good. I once fought on the side of the vampires and the ghouls. Now I fight on the side of the innocent and the righteous. (Good) 2 Responsibility. I have the utmost respect for my commanders and would never question their orders on the battlefield. (Lawful) 3 Glory. Even if I am unsure of the cause I fight for, I always fight bravely and well. (Neutral) 4 Might. Only the foolish would stand against the armies of Prince Lucan and the shroud-eaters. (Evil) 5 Independence. It is time for the common folk to rise up against their oppressors. (Chaotic) 6 Nation. The Principalities and the people living in them are what matter to me. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I stand firm as the champion of the poor and downtrodden common folk of Morgau. 2 My trusty weapon saved my life in Krakova and is my most treasured possession. 3 If Grand Marshall Princess Hristina gave me the command, I would gladly lay down my life for her. 4 I would do anything for the men and women who fought alongside me on the battlefield. 5 One day my parents will be proud of me and what I’ve achieved. 6 I watched a darakhul eat a little boy—someday I will track him down and make him pay. d6 Flaw 1 My sleep is still disturbed by terrible nightmares of ghouls feasting on the dead. 2 I will not run from a fight, whatever the odds. 3 I enjoy the company of the undead more than the living. 4 Being on a losing streak makes me all the more determined to win my money back. 5 I did something terrible during my time in the Order and will stop at nothing to keep it secret. 6 I sometimes think dark, murderous thoughts about those close to me.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

