# Ghoul Imperium Deserter

**description**: You have served your emperor and his officers dutifully, and it has brought you nothing. The rewards you have been promised—a herd of fattened manlings for feasting upon, a troop of skeletons to serve your needs, and possibly a zombie or three for light security—all of these things and more have failed to materialize in whole or in part, and now you want what you feel is coming to you, even if you have to live among the feeble mortals of the surface lands to get it. While some Ghoul Imperium deserters are found amongst vampires and their dhampir progeny, most frequently they are darakhul, many of whom are veterans of the constant conflicts with the ghoul emperor’s many enemies, both above and below the surface of the world. You are viewed with suspicion if not outright hostility by the majority of the people you meet. Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Performance Tool Proficienies: Disguise kit Language: Darakhul Equipment: A bag of caltrops, a hunting trap, a disguise kit, a humanoid skull or femur, and a pouch with 25 gp Restriction: Darakhul or Dhampir You can choose this background only if you are a darakhul or a dhampir. Feature: Alter Ego You have a second identity that includes documentation, established acquaintances, and disguises that allow you to assume this persona. Additionally, you have a safehouse in one of the cities or towns of the Crossroads region. This safehouse is of average quality and is registered in the name of your alter ego. Suggested Characteristics While benevolence isn’t completely unknown to the darakhul of the Ghoul Imperium, deserters are often marked with a streak of selfishness or unbridled self interest. Often their ideals and bonds are shaped by the type of company they keep. d8 Personality Trait 1 I will do whatever it takes, barring personal harm, to get what I want. 2 Caution is as necessary on the battlefield as in the bargaining chamber. 3 If no one saw this, it didn’t happen. 4 If you have what I want, I will take it. 5 Trickery and persuasion are the same thing. 6 I am owed a blood debt that will be repaid with interest. 7 Happiness is as pointless as sorrow. 8 Killing should be done in the bloodiest fashion possible. d6 Ideal 1 Power. Those weaker than myself deserve neither mercy nor pity. (Evil) 2 Control. I know what is best. Kneel and do my bidding. (Law) 3 Selfishness. If I get what I desire, there may be some little thing left for you. (Evil) 4 Benevolence. We were free creatures in life. It does not have to be different in un-life. (Good) 5 Anarchy. If everyone rises up as one, they cannot strike at all of us. (Chaos) 6 Fairness. We toil for our masters, and what does it gain us? When do we see reward for our efforts? (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 My standard bearer has been with me through hell and high water. I will see to it that he makes it through this too. 2 I take a fingertip from each dwarf I slay and string them on a thong I wear around my neck. 3 After I fell in battle near Triolo, my spouse remarried and took our children to live with the new family. I will find and recover my children while punishing my spouse’s betrayal of my memory. 4 This rose engraved blade has seen my family’s fortunes fall. It will now see them rise again in eternal life. 5 The gnomes of Niemheim took me in when I was near my second death. I will protect gnomes wherever I find them. 6 I was branded a traitor and driven into exile. I will return in force and bring glory to my name. d6 Flaw 1 I can only stomach meat that is cut from living prey. 2 When I am telling the truth, it seems like I am lying. 3 I cannot help but to be deceitful when I am speaking to an authority figure. 4 My tone is loud and aggressive, even when I am feeling calm. 5 I cannot read my mother tongue, but I will not admit this fact. 6 When living people are near me, I lick my lips and salivate profusely. Variant Ghoul Imperium Deserter: Escaped Slave You were part of the Ghoul Imperium not as one of its ghoulish citizens but as one of its living slaves. You can choose this variant only if you are not a darakhul or dhampir. As a “skilled” slave, you survived longer than your fellow “fleshling” slaves who were food for the Imperium’s masses. You might have served as the personal attendant to a noble who flaunted you as proof of their wealth or an artisan who had slaves supplement their apprentices—a darakhul who doesn’t need to eat its slave is a wealthy or talented darakhul indeed. You eventually made your escape by sneaking to the surface on a merchant’s caravan or through the many dark and dangerous tunnels of the Underworld. Perhaps a living merchant even took pity on you and smuggled you out. Whatever your role as a slave in the Ghoul Imperium and your method of escape, you are now free. Your former master might still be looking for you and your loved ones have long presumed you dead. Your Alter Ego is the new identity you have built for yourself after being unable to return to your former life, but your safehouse might be the home of a former traveling companion or relative who held out hope for your survival. Rather than proficiency in Performance, you might have proficiency with one set of artisan’s tools. And instead of a humanoid skull or femur, you can start with a small trinket you stole when you made your escape, though the trinket has no value except as something sentimental to your former ghoulish master.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Underworld Player's Guide

