# Gnoll-Caravan Raider

**description**: Gnolls are found in large numbers throughout the Southlands. While many are civilized (more or less) and join local armies to fight as shock troops, their savage cousins roam the deserts and wilderness preying on caravans. Gnolls are accomplished raiders, attacking with stealth, creating chaos and panic, and then slipping away with the plunder before the merchants and their guards know what’s hit them. While some gnoll raiders follow Bastet or her jackal-headed husband Anu-Akma, the worst of them have turned to the dark god Laughing Nkishi or have joined the vile Doomspeakers cult. Gnoll raiders like throwing alchemist’s fire, smoke bombs, and other homemade concoctions to wreak havoc when they raid a caravan. They favor giant hyenas as mounts. Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics, Intimidation Tool Proficiencies: Alchemist’s supplies Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A flask of alchemist’s fire, an annotated map of the desert showing the most popular caravan routes, a trophy from a successful raid, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Desert Rat You know the caravan routes and oases of the Southlands like the back of your hand and can move at a fast travel pace through the desert without taking the usual –5 penalty to your passive Wisdom (Perception) score. Your experience in stealing from caravans allows you to quickly search through trade goods and other plunder. You gain advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) checks to work out which are the most valuable items. Suggested Characteristics While gnoll raiders are all robbers and few could be considered kind-hearted, some are more savage and bloodthirsty than others, who may possess one—maybe even two—redeeming features. Gnolls are bullies, preying on those weaker than themselves and grudgingly obeying those that are stronger. Ideals and bonds are often shaped by the god the raider follows. d8 Personality Traits 1 I just need one more big score, then I can give up raiding caravans for good. 2 It’s a good idea to scout first, charge second. 3 I could never live in the city. I only sleep well under the desert stars. 4 I try not to leave any witnesses alive. 5 I have no time for weak-minded fools. 6 These fat, oily merchants need the money much less than I do. 7 Biting off a finger or two usually gets them to tell me where they’ve hidden the loot. 8 I love the smell of freshly spilled blood on the sand. d6 Ideal 1 Cunning. I like to stay at least two steps ahead of my allies, and three steps ahead of my enemies. (Any) 2 Hedonism. Have a good time, all the time. (Chaotic) 3 Greed. I see what I want, and I take it. (Evil) 4 Family. I raid caravans to make sure my family doesn’t starve. (Neutral) 5 Independence. No one tells me what to do. (Chaotic) 6 Might. Nkishi rewards the strong and punishes the weak. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I lost my father’s scimitar on a raid and will not rest until I win it back. 2 Soon, I will be considered worthy to read the Book of Nine Dooms. 3 I would gladly lay down my life for my packmates. 4 My daughter is living somewhere in the city of Per-Bastet, and I need to find her to tell her I’m sorry. 5 One day I will travel south to Dabu and pledge my service to the Ama of the Gnolls. 6 I took part in a bloody raid on a caravan of peaceful pilgrims and still feel guilty to this day. d6 Flaw 1 I like to feast on the entrails of my enemies. Mmmm, tasty! 2 I abhor senseless violence. 3 I try to get away with doing as little as possible. 4 If I hear music, I can't help myself—I have to howl along. 5 If the odds are stacked against me, I don't stick around. 6 I'm incapable of sticking to a plan.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

