# Graverobber

**description**: Some folk regard graves as sacred ground, a memento of the ones who passed away from the world, some see them as places that they won’t visit, even after death, and others consider graves to be a source of uncanny wealth. You, as a graverobber, are the third. You visit the graves of Kanrath or Cyherested, not to mourn, but to plunder. A shovel and a well-groomed grave are all that you need to reach the riches you desire. However, every profession has its own difficulties, especially in Tolia. Bodies in Kanrath and Cyherested are used by city officials in many ways, for purposes such as blood experiments or raising an undead army. Dead bodies are thus quite valuable. It is likely for you to dig an empty grave, or clash with other graverobbers or enforcers while you’re trying to do your job. Regardless, if you can find a well-preserved body, or some belongings that it was buried with, you’re likely to make plenty of money. Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Athletics, Medicine, Sleight of Hand, and Stealth Tool Proficiencies: Thieves’ tools Equipment: A shovel, a crowbar, a hammer, 50 feet of hempen rope, a set of common clothes, a simple rag, a pouch containing 100 KF/CS Feature: Outcast You are unpopular among the non-criminal citizens of your city, those who know that you are a graverobber try to avoid you at all costs. However, the criminal underworld needs folk like you. You can find shelter or maybe a couple of small side-hustles at places that are run by people of your mindset. Suggested Characteristics All you need is to be stealthy, clever, and cautious to become a graverobber. You might also be a bit glum as you spend a lot of time around the dead. d8 Personality Trait 1 I keep my distance from society; my line of work requires me to do so. 2 I like to steal from the dead, who cannot hurt me. 3 My work is dangerous as I walk alone at night, and it’s thrilling to me. 4 The idea of treasure in graves excites me. 5 I don’t need to be dead silent because I steal dead bodies, I love to talk. 6 My work disgusts me, but I need coin and I need it bad. 7 I’m not a graverobber, I am a treasure hunter. 8 Dealing with the dead has made me unpleasant. d6 Ideal 1 Survivor. I am just trying to survive. (Neutral) 2 Defiler. I take pleasure from desecrating a grave. (Evil) 3 Greedy. I want to obtain all the riches that lie underground. (Neutral) 4 Altruistic. I take coin from the dead and give them to the living. (Chaotic) 5 Materialist. I hurt no one by stealing from the dead, why is it a bad thing? (Any) 6 Respectful. I do not touch the graves of people who are to be held in high esteem. (Lawful) d6 Bond 1 I am looking for the wealthiest tomb that I can dig. 2 I have come across a good-old friend of mine while gravedigging. I should find out who caused their death. 3 I’ve found a treasure map in a grave, but don’t know where it leads. 4 I have dug the wrong grave and now I’m wanted by the authorities. 5 I might have set an entity free while I was raiding a tomb. 6 I have a family that desperately needs food and I must provide for them. d6 Flaw 1 I am haunted by a ghost whose grave I’ve recently dug. 2 Stealing has become my way of life. 3 I am terribly afraid of dying. 4 The dead speak to me. 5 I murdered and sold a few people when fresh dead bodies were needed. 6 I cannot be happy knowing that I will die someday.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

