# Grounded

**description**: Despite the inherent vertical aspects of birdfolk culture, you have always felt safer and more at peace with your feet firmly planted on the soil. You are practical and level-headed, but due to your different perspective on the world, other birdfolk see you as quirky or unsettling. Your unique insight allows you to connect with the humblefolk who live under the forest canopy in ways perch-dwelling birdfolk cannot. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Insight Tool Proficiencies: one type of Artisan’s Tools Languages: one of your choice Equipment: a set of Artisan’s Tools (one of your choice), a walking stick, a trinket from another culture, traveling clothes, and a belt pouch with 5 gp An Odd Bird Among birdfolk you are somewhere between an oddity and an outcast. Some consider your aversion to heights a rejection of birdfolk culture, leading many to find you off-putting. Choose how your community regards you or roll on the table below to determine how you fit in. d6 Community Place 1 I am considered weak or unskilled and many treat me like a fledgling. 2 I am looked upon as a traitor to my people. 3 My family wants me to return to the perch, but I just can’t. 4 I am not welcome back in my home perch. 5 I am viewed as an oddity, someone for others to laugh at and tease. 6 I have found a new community on the forest floor. Feature: Find Another Path Since you have lived your life close to the ground, you are familiar with the undergrowth in the same way other birdfolk are familiar with the canopy. You can always recall the general layout of the terrain around you while traveling along the forest floor. If your path is ever blocked by an obstacle that requires you to climb or otherwise gain height to circumvent it, you can always find a way around, so long as such a path exists. Additionally, you are adept at finding shelter in the Wood while traveling, and can usually locate a suitable safe shelter (a cave, a tree hollow, or bramble thicket) somewhere on the forest floor for you and up to five other creatures. Suggested Characteristics Birdfolk who are grounded often find ways to cope with their aversion to canopy life. Some have completely forsaken their old lives in favor of new ones in undergrowth communities, while others keep ties with family and friends in the perches where they were born. d8 Personality Trait 1 I always second guess my choices. 2 I have learned to not let the comments of others affect me. 3 I’m eager to show the benefits of my unique perspective. 4 I’m slow to trust someone new, but open up over shared hardships. 5 I manufacture difficult situations to prove my abilities. 6 I get embarrassed easily, even when someone tries to compliment me. 7 I will deny my fears to everyone. 8 I want to see how others handle situations I’m afraid of. d6 Ideal 1 Adversity. Others think of me as weak, but I will prove my worth with hard work and determination. (Lawful) 2 Encouragement. I try to seek out and support others like me who are seen as outcasts. (Good) 3 Exploration. I yearn to experience unique cultures and discover new places. (Chaotic) 4 Safety. In this dangerous world, it’s best to keep your head down and stay cautious. (Neutral) 5 Rebellion. Who cares what others think of me, so long as my actions reflect how I feel in my heart? (Chaotic) 6 Compromise. The best way to respect each other’s differences is to find a solution that doesn’t exclude anyone. (Good) d6 Bond 1 My family has been the subject of ridicule ever since I left my home perch. 2 A bully from my childhood now holds a position of power in my home perch. 3 I follow the teachings of a wise outcast I met in my travels. 4 I feel kinship to a culture outside my own. 5 I won’t tolerate anyone who insults me or my friends. 6 I have found a new family on the forest floor, and they mean more to me than anything. d6 Flaw 1 I am incapable of action when I’m at great heights. 2 I lash out at the slightest insult. 3 I keep a distance from others so they won’t learn of my fears. 4 I project my insecurities onto others. 5 I am uncouth and mannerless. 6 I find hard to trust other birdfolk.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Hit Point Press

**book**: Humblewood

