# Hantei Family - Imperial Court

**description**: The Hantei family, which includes the Emperor and his immediate family, is truly “Imperial,” insofar as the Emperors who have reigned over Rokugan have come from this family. At any time, it consists only of the ruler of the Empire, the Imperial spouse, and any children who potentially stand to inherit. Imperial heirs are taught by the best instructors available from the Great Clans, but their lofty position can make a traditional education difficult, for many instructors are loath to admonish a student of such standing. Members of the Hantei family are sometimes oddly sheltered—they sit at the head of one of the most powerful organizations in the world, yet they rarely leave the Imperial City. They wield unrivaled power, yet are separated from its consequences by so many layers of bureaucracy and distance. This can be difficult for many individuals to cope with, and if the plays and novels are to be believed, has led to more than a few members of the Hantei family sneaking out into the world incognito (or being thrust into it by happenstance). Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, ceremonial tea set. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak, sign, read, and write Courtly Rokugani, an archaic version of the language used in many old texts and in some ceremonies. Equipment: Resplendent regalia, wakizashi, calligraphy set, ceremonial tea set. Background Feature: Heights of Power You grew up in the Imperial Court, a place both perilous for its intrigues and oddly separated from the dangers of the rest of the world, granting you the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the politics within the Imperial Capital. You can name Imperial family heads, ranking bureaucrats and other leaders, and you know their respective positions and allegiances. You know Imperial history quite well, particularly as it pertains to the deeds of the Emperor and the Imperial families. You know proper etiquette and protocol in the Imperial Capital. You know certain secrets that have been elided from the official histories of Rokugan. Suggested Feats Life in the Imperial Court requires developing certain talents, especially as relates the art of persuasion, diplomacy, and intrigue. If making an Imperial Court character, the following feats could be good thematic choices: Fashionable, Watchful Ancestors, and Celestial Authority.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

