# Haunted Region - Commoner

**description**: Brooding skies smother the land, and jagged precipices cut the Heavens. Unfamiliar animals and plants, changed by hellish influence, assault the eyes with strange colors, textures, and movements. The wind blows bitter, and the nights are long. Scattered all throughout the world, one can find places palpably affected by the malign presence of vengeful ghosts, corrupted spirits, and unspeakable acts. The Crab Clan’s lands are often so afflicted, as if even the Kaiu Wall cannot fully contain the misery leaching out from the Shadowlands. The Yodha of the Ivory Kingdoms also know the vile denizens of the Shadowlands all too well, as they vigilantly guard the border between the Ghostlands and their gleaming cities. In other places, hungry spirits can become trapped in the realm of mortals, or they wander in from the unregulated slums of the Realm of the Hungry Dead, plaguing the living. Ancient battlefields with restless dead, forests filled with primordial hunters of humanity, and other fell places can have a similar effect. Yet life goes on, even in the face of such supernatural dread. People who hail from regions with such hazards may see the world as an altogether more dangerous place, but they also know how to survive spiritual threats that others might not even know exist. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, choose one other Dexterity-based skill (Acrobatics, Sleight of Hand, or Stealth). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool, divination kit. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes, dagger or spear, any one tool, divination kit, and 5 sp. Suggested Feats: Battlefield Training, Charm Connoisseur, Survivalist’s Eye. Background Feature: Worldly Wisdom As a resident of a particular region, you have the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your place of origin. You can name major families, prominent merchants, and other leaders in the region as well as their respective positions and allegiances. You know the layout and local residents in the neighborhood where you grew up or where you live now, along with any unusual features, shortcuts, or hidden wonders in your home region. You have knowledge of the impact of crime, poverty, or political unrest that you have experienced in your homeland. You know the trade that you grew up around extremely well, even if you do not practice it yourself. This might be woodcraft, hunting, or fishing in a rural village, commerce or artisanry in a bustling city, agriculture in a farming town, or sailing in a seaside port, to name only a few examples. You can always figure out where to go to get work when in your home region or a similar area.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

