# Haunted Villager

**description**: Life is bleak and relentless under vampire rule for the common folk of the Blood Kingdom. You were a hard-working peasant or craftsman living in one of the villages or small towns in Morgau, Doresh, or Krakova. The days were long and only fleeting moments of joy punctuated your miserable existence. What little money you made was barely enough to keep your family clothed and fed, and the menacing presence of the elders and the priestesses of the Red Goddess made true happiness elusive. Then one day, things took a sudden turn for the worse when a traumatic incident changed your life forever. In the aftermath of the tragedy, you turned your back on your village and headed out into the wider world to begin your adventuring career. Perhaps you felt your destiny lay elsewhere, or maybe you needed to escape from a place filled with bad memories. Terrible Incident What was the tragic event that led you to leave home and take up a life of adventure? Come up with your own or roll on the table below. d8 Event 1 You were living in the Electoral Kingdom of Krakova when the vampires of Morgau and Doresh invaded, and you watched your spouse get eaten by a pack of ghouls. 2 Your son was bitten by a werewolf in the forest and claimed the wound was from a bear. When he turned on the night of the full moon and attacked your spouse, you killed him, only realising what you’d done when his body reverted to human form. 3 Your father joined the Order of the Knights Incorporeal and willingly submitted to ghoul fever to become one of the undead. 4 Your sister was chosen by lot to be sacrificed by the local priestess on the altar of the Red Goddess when the harvest failed. 5 Slavers seized your spouse and daughter when they went to visit the neighboring village and took them to Hengksburg to be sold in the Meat Market. 6 Evil fey stole your newborn child and replaced him or her with a changeling. 7 Your closest childhood friend served the local Elder in his castle. Yearning to escape the tortures of the living, he asked his master to drain his blood and now serves him as a vampire spawn. 8 The loathsome hag who lives deep in the forest kidnapped and cooked your children in her cauldron. Skill Proficiencies: Nature, Survival Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of artisan’s tools (one of your choice), a token from a deceased family member, a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Born of the Soil You are familiar with the fields, forests, and mountains of the Blood Kingdom and have no problem finding your way in the countryside, with or without a map. When you arrive at a village in the Principalities, you receive a warm welcome from the local peasants and can readily find someone willing to give you a good meal and a bed for the night. Suggested Characteristics Haunted villagers are shaped by dark events in their past, and the loved ones they lost still haunt their dreams every night. Sometimes the tragedy they experienced leads them to seek revenge on the vampires and other dark forces that cause so much misery, and to fight for freedom and for the common people against oppression. Family, friends, home, and village are most often important bonds to haunted villagers. d8 Personality Traits 1 I’m a survivor. Nothing life throws at me now can be worse than what I’ve already endured. 2 I speak my mind, and that sometimes causes offense. 3 I’m not cutting my hair or shaving my beard until I’ve avenged my family. 4 I eat heartily and belch loudly afterward in appreciation. You never know where your next meal is coming from. 5 I don’t trust people who don’t work with their hands. 6 I may never be a hero, but I’ll never be a coward. 7 I am driven by wanderlust and always feel compelled to move on after a day or two in one place. 8 I’m always picking up odds and ends that I come across in my travels. You never know what might come in handy. d6 Ideal 1 Greater Good. It is our duty to make things better for those who are suffering. (Good) 2 Freedom. I stand ready to take action against the elders and help the populace throw off the yoke of oppression. (Chaotic) 3 Community. We need to look out for each other and keep our community safe from harm. (Lawful) 4 People. I care about my family and my friends from the village, and have little interest in high ideals. (Neutral) 5 Retribution. I will have my bloody revenge. The end justifies the means. (Evil) 6 Destiny. I am following a higher calling and nothing can sway me from the path. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I’ll make sure no one else in my family dies a violent death. 2 The tools of my trade are my last connection to my previous life. I keep them to remind me of what I once was. 3 I will return to free the people of my village from the baron’s tyranny. 4 I carry my loved one’s journal in my breast pocket and read it every night. 5 I will make those who hurt my family suffer. 6 It should have been me that died that night and not my loved one. Their sacrifice drives me forward. d6 Flaw 1 My dreams are sometimes so terrifying I wake up screaming. 2 I feel guilty for abandoning my family and my home, but I couldn’t stay there a moment longer. 3 When I think about what I will do to the creature that killed my family, my fury is all-consuming. 4 I cannot trust anyone until they prove themselves worthy beyond all doubt. 5 I drink heavily to forget the bad things that happened. 6 I secretly yearn to become an elder.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

