# Healer

**description**: You have dedicated a great deal of your life to understanding the body, how to cure it and how to keep it healthy. You may be a priest in a temple, an apprentice under a physician or even a self-taught medic. You know how easy it is to cause damage, and in contrast how difficult it is to fix it. Your studies encouraged you to research and practice your expertise wherever your travels may take you to. Skill Proficiencies: Medicine and Nature Tool Proficiencies: Herbalism kit and Poisoner’s Kit Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A healer's kit, a herbalism kit, a poisoner's kit, a small knife or scalpel, a notebook and pencils, a set of common clothes, and a pouch containing 5 gp. Feature: Medical Professional You have a reputation as a healer of the sick, and are often called upon by those who are suffering from disease or injuries. You can usually gain an audience with anyone who needs treatment — even if protocol would normally prevent you from doing so — simply by agreeing to offer your assistance. Additionally, you can acquire shelter, food and even payment in settlements in exchange for offering to help a community with your expertise as a medic. Payment may not always be monetary, and depending on the economic state of the settlement it may not even be valuable. Healer Spells Prerequisite: Spellcasting or Pact Magic class feature For you, the Spells on the Healer Spells table are added to the spell list of your Spellcasting class. (If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these Spells are added to all of them.) Healer Spells Spell Level Spells Cantrip Spare the Dying, Resistance 1st Healing Word, Purify Food and Drink 2nd Aid, Healing Spirit 3rd Aura of Vitality, Life Transference 4th Aura of Life, Death Ward 5th Mass Cure Wounds, Raise Dead Your magic manifests in a number of colors, spraying a pleasant floral aroma. Whenever you heal someone, a faint aura of the same color as your magic trails behind them for a moment. Suggested Characteristics Healers are defined by the focus on their work and attention to details. Because so many of the illnesses they treat often have similar symptoms, they are careful about the things they say and the questions they ask, always looking to gather precise and accurate information. They tend towards cleanliness and organization, as they need to keep their tools sterile and their supplies ready at all times. d8 Personality Trait 1 I prefer to save violence as a last resort. 2 I keep all of my possessions meticulously clean, and I hate any kind of filth. 3 I make incredibly poor jokes in an attempt to put others at ease. 4 I have many stories of seeing serious injuries. Sometimes a bit too...graphic. 5 I try to be as honest as possible. Being transparent is the best way to make a diagnosis after all. 6 I present everything I say as a guess or estimate so that I don’t look foolish if I turn out to be wrong. 7 I try to make conversation at the most inopportune times. Sometimes even in the middle of a surgery! 8 I'm haunted by the memories of people I couldn't save. d6 Ideal 1 Aid to All. Every sick or wounded person deserves my help, regardless of the life they lead. (Good) 2 Learning. Tradition and established research are important to preserve so that we don’t lose the accumulated knowledge of those who came before. (Lawful) 3 Evolution. The threats to people's lives are always evolving. I need to do the same, no matter what. (Chaotic) 4 Professional. I don't particularly care for those I heal. As long as they pay, I will be there to heal them. (Neutral) 5 Health. I strive to remedy illness and injury; health is the goal. (Any) 6 Observer. There is so much to learn by studying those who suffer. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 My people are afflicted with a rare disease, and I must find the cure. 2 I share all of my discoveries with my fellow healers, to further the goals of our trade. 3 I wish to prove that “mundane” healing is just as viable as magic. 4 I work closely with a group that aims to eliminate a particular disease from existence. 5 My sister died in childbirth. I became a doctor because of people like her. 6 One of my patients died inexplicably, and I must find out why. d6 Flaw 1 My bedside manner is awful. 2 I have no filter when it comes to explaining the terrible outcomes of a given situation. 3 Memories of a horrible plague that I failed to cure still haunt me to this day. 4 I tend to lecture people about proper health, even when they don’t want to hear it. 5 The sight of blood makes me queasy, and I can only treat those who have no external wounds. 6 I am only interested in the ailments my patients suffer from, not the people themselves.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

