# Hellrider

**description**: You are one of the Hellriders, an elite company of mounted warriors that protects Elturgard, the Kingdom of Two Suns. The Hellriders get their name from the brave cavalry that rode into the Nine Hells alongside the angel Zariel long ago. Today, these honorable riders fiercely defend Elturel atop mighty destriers and dutifully give ten percent of all earnings to the city’s coffers. Hellriders are easily recognizable due to their crimson and white armor and banners bearing the crest of Elturgard: the sun and the smaller, blazing Companion. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, Persuasion Languages: One of your choice Tool Proficiencies: Your choice of gaming set or musical instrument Equipment: One set of traveler’s clothes, a signet, a banner or seal with the crest of Elturgard, and a pouch containing 9 gp Feature: Respected Rider As a Hellrider, you are well-respected within Elturgard, and your heraldry is recognized throughout Faerûn. While in the Kingdom of Two Suns—encompassing Elturel, Triel, Scornubel, Soubar, and Berdusk—you can commandeer fresh mounts for you and your party. Typically, this occurs at outposts such as Windstream Lodge, but Hellriders and their companions are held in high regard and can resupply in any Elturgard settlement. Use the warhorse statistics for your mount and the riding horse statistics for those of your comrades. Hellriders traditionally operate within Elturgard, but on occasion the High Watcher or High Rider has sent Hellriders to other lands. Outside of the Elturgard, you can purchase non-exotic mounts from merchants sympathetic to the Hellriders at half price. Advancement Once they have completed their training, a warrior is inducted into the Hellriders through a special ceremony held by the High Rider and an elected priest of Helm known as the High Observer. Once initiated, a Hellrider can continue to prove themselves by advancing in rank. Hellrider Ranks Rank Name Role 1 Hoof Knight 2 Quarter Standard Bearer 3 Stallion Under-Marshal 4 Destrier Marshal 5 High Rider Commander Suggested Characteristics A Hellrider’s rigorous training produces an equestrian knight with a reputation for discipline, vigilance, and fury. Though each rider may seem identical when galloping across the hills of Elturgard, these high expectations can have profound effects on an individual Hellrider’s outlook. d8 Persona lity Trait 1 I tell other Hellriders’ stories as if they were my own. 2 My armor must remain spotless so that it may reflect the light of the Companion. 3 My horse goes wherever I do. 4 Only death frees a Hellrider from their post. Some say I welcome it. 5 I was a hellion growing up. I often take the time to educate (or chastise) children I meet in my adventures. 6 When I’m on the job, I never crack a smile. 7 I reserve eye contact for those I respect. 8 I haven’t cut my hair since I joined the Hellriders. d6 Ideal 1 Kindness. The light of the Companion burns bright within my soul. (Good) 2 Justice. By upholding the law, we defend the rights of all. (Lawful) 3 Fury. I am relentless in the pursuit and destruction of my enemies. (Evil) 4 Freedom. Everyone should be free to pursue their livelihood. (Chaotic) 5 Loyalty. When I make an ally, it’s for life. (Any) 6 Nation. My city, kingdom, and its people are all that matter. (Any) d6 Bond 1 So long as the Companion burns over Elturel, there is still hope for Faerûn. 2 My name and deeds will be immortalized in the songs of the Hellriders. 3 I idolize the High Rider and dutifully follow their commands. 4 I have a mighty steed that I prize above all others. 5 I’m not the first Hellrider in my family, and I won’t be the last. 6 I have sworn the strict oaths of the Creed Resolute. I vow to uphold the laws of Elturgard, protect its citizens, and serve the greater good. d6 Flaw 1 I am always honest with those of higher authority. 2 When I’m off duty, I am somewhat inattentive. 3 Though I have sworn to vanquish evil, I secretly fear it. 4 I trained for years to be a Hellrider. I have little patience for those who are privileged by birth. 5 I am suspicious of those who extend offers to me. 6 I was never supposed to be a Hellrider. I worry that one day I’ll be discovered as a fraud.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Anthony Joyce-Rivera

**book**: Baldurs Gate - The Fall of Elturel

