# Hero of the Apocalypse

**description**: When the old world came to an end, you didn't just watch. You tried your best to save people, fighting enemies or helping others get to a safer location. Even if you were inexperienced, you did whatever you were capable of, and some people are still alive today because of you. After the rebirth of your world in Braythe, you stayed in contact with some of those you have saved, and maybe others who have helped at your side. These people will never forget you, and you will never forget them. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Survival Tool Proficiencies and Languages: One language of your choice, one vehicle type of your choice Equipment: A pouch containing 10 gp A set of traveler's clothes An explorer's pack Any one musical Instrument or Gaming Set you are proficient with A symbolic gift of one of the survivors you have saved Forever thankful: Those who you have saved will always be thankful to you. You can find a place to hide or rest, or gather information from them, unless your presence or giving out the information seriously endangers them or their loved ones. They will shi⁠eld you from anyone searching for you, but will not risk their lives for you. Suggested characteristics: Helping others comes naturally to you. Whether you do it out of compassion, loyalty or to get paid, giving up isn't an option once you have taken on a responsibility. Even when facing the end of the world, you kept going, not allowing fear or desperation to overwhelm you. Traits I believe that everyone is worth saving, even if it's not always possible. I am a quick thinker, and adapt to new challenges in seconds. I ignore all danger to myself when protecting others from danger. Thinking is too slow. I act on my intuition. I always keep an eye out for danger - to me or to others. I love the thrill of barely getting away with my life. I'm not just confident. I survived the apocalypse. I can get through anything! Longer periods of peace or boredom make me nervous. Ideals Life. All living things have a worth of their own. (Good) Society. A society needs the strong to protect the weak, or it will collapse. (Lawful) Survival. I do whatever must be done to survive the moment. (Chaotic) Power. There is no limit to the dangers I might face, so there shall be no limit to the power I seek. (Evil) People. I'm loyal to my friends and to those I've taken responsibility for, everyone else can look out for themselves. (Neutral) Destiny. We are the survivors. We are meant to make something meaningful with our lives! (Any) Bonds I have no idea what happened to my family in the apocalypse, and I am still searching for them. While fleeing from danger, I have lost sight of one of the people I was responsible for. I still hope they are alive, and keep looking for them. Among those I saved, there is one person in particular that means a lot to me. The champion of my world saved us all. I will fight everyone who stands against them. I have seen the world burn. I have learned to appreciate the land on which I live, and will protect it and its inhabitants. Someone attacked me while I tried to save others, but got away. I will find and I will end them. Flaws I am overprotective. I will not allow anything bad happening to those I am responsible for. I get agitated easily. Even at first signs of danger, I feel like I am back in the last moments of the apocalypse. I have survived, and I am going to enjoy the life I was granted. Give me all the pleasures the world has to offer! For me, the battle for survival never ended. I constantly look for danger, and even seek it actively. Seeing so much suffering and death was more than I could handle. Today, I bottle up my emotions, so they can't overwhelm me. I consider myself a saviour, and I am driven by the need to save others - even if they don't want me to.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

