# Hida Family - Crab Clan

**description**: The Hida family trains its members to guard Rokugan against the horrific denizens and spreading doom of the Shadowlands first and foremost. Its castles are built into the Kaiu Wall itself, and its training grounds overlook swaths of the twisted realm beyond. The family’s task is an eternal vigil to keep the Empire safe from unthinkable horrors as its founder once did. However, unlike the divine warrior who founded the family, the members of the family today are not demigods but mortals, and every victory comes at a price in supplies, morale, and lives. This harsh responsibility makes many members of the Hida family exceedingly pragmatic, with little time for the polite but deadly maneuverings of other courts. If that time could be spent studying the weaknesses of monsters or experimenting with new battle tactics that might reduce the rate of attrition in future engagements, most Hida would prefer not to waste it on frivolous political posturing. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Choose one of the following tools: blacksmith’s kit, bowyer’s kit, or board or card game. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Traveling clothes, wakizashi, one finger of jade, one of the following tools: blacksmith’s kit, bowyer’s kit, or board or card game, and 5 gp. Background Feature: Know Your Enemy You grew up in the penumbra of the Shadowlands, and the threat it poses is second nature to you, granting you the following benefits: You know the signals with flares, flags, and smoke used along the Carpenter Wall, along with each one’s meaning. You can identify common Shadowlands creatures, such as the undead and lesser horrors, and you know how to dispatch them. You grew up hearing stories and songs of heroes who faced greater evils still, such as oni and Lost champions, and might have even seen one on the battlefield. You know all too well the whispered promises of power that pervade the Shadowlands and how to steel your soul against their call. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Crab Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Hida Defender School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Hida Defender school of warfare, make Constitution and Strength your highest ability scores, and Wisdom next to help you stay vigilant. Begin in the bushi class. At 3rd level, choose the Protector archetype. Put the rest of your levels into bushi to create a dedicated front-line combatant, or take three levels of courtier and choose the Diplomat archetype to create a battle leader who helps allies stand fast against the dreadful foes you must face.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

