# Hightailer

**description**: Your life wasn't really the best in the old world. You got from day to day, maybe even had some success. But when things got difficult, you had a tendency to just move on. This gave you a certain freedom, but also a lack of security - financially as well as emotionally. When the apocalypse came, you did what you do best: You ran. Fortunately, in the right direction. Be it fate or luck, you ended up in a region that was saved by the champion of your world. But since then, you never really stopped running. Travelling from town to town, maybe even from country to country, you only look forward. The past just hasn't much to offer for you. Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, Survival Tool Proficiencies and Languages: Gaming Kit, and one language of your choice Equipment: A pouch containing 5 gp A set of traveler's clothes A Dungeoneer's Pack or an Explorer's Pack City hunch: Whenever you come into a new town or city, you quickly notice the most important buildings - or have a hunch on where to find them. From the guard's tower to the best inn (whatever that means to you), you know where to look for such places (and how to avoid them). Suggested characteristics: You burn the bridges behind you. Most people don't matter much to you, even though you might have a small number of close friends. That doesn't necessarily mean you don't care about people, in general, just not so much about specific individuals. You've seen some bad things, so looking forward is usually the better option - the future is, at least, something you can shape. If only by heading into a new direction. Traits The goal of life is happiness. For every decision I make, I ask myself: Will this make me happy? The past is a haunted place. I prefer not to look at it, and run away from everything that reminds me of the past. I've never had a lot of friends, and I never felt close to my family. I learned to rely on myself. I don't trust easily, but also don't expect others to trust me. I'm good at social situations. I know what to do and what to say - I just don't feel what I pretend to feel. I'm not running away. I'm running towards a better life. I'm used to other people only helping me in exchange for something. I usually don't wait until they ask. Let's just get it over with. I'm a thrillseeker. Every new adventure makes me forget I might miss something in my life. Ideals Happiness. All I want in life is happiness - for me and for everyone else. (Good) Adaptation. Wherever I go, I act as the locals do. I'm only a guest, and I always respect the local laws. (Lawful) Change. Nobody should be forced into a life they don't want. I'll offer my help to anyone looking for a life change. (Chaotic) Selfishness. Most people I meet, I won't ever see again. I try to get as much out of others as I can. (Evil) Avoidance. I try to never stay too long in one place. Things get complicated when you stay too long. (Neutral) Curiosity. Why look back, when there's a whole new world to explore? Curiosity drives me forward, every single day. (Any) Bonds I had one person (or animal) in my life that I trusted. I have no idea what happened to them during the apocalypse, and I think of them often. My nomadic life really started after one heated discussion with an important person in my life. Things got so bad that I left, and never returned. During the apocalypse, someone helped me survive. They just did it, without asking anything in return. And I can't stop thinking about it. I have fallen in love, but never confessed it to the person. They're still alive, and I am still in love. I love stories, and regularly take my time to escape into them. Whether told by a bard or written in a book, I can always enjoy a new tale. When I travel, I try to have at least one novel with me. Sometimes, burning a bridge doesn't fully work out. There's someone I have wronged in the past, and they are still looking for me. Flaws I have a variety of learned roles to interact with other people. Only a few that are close to me know my real self. When under pressure, I tell people whatever I think they want to hear, even if it's a lie. This includes social pressure, and also happens among friends. I have an addiction. But it's not a problem. I can stop whenever I want to. Seriously! I can be ruthless. When you don't get attached to people, it can be easy to forget they have feelings, too. I'm lonely. Even if I tell myself I don't need anyone else, deep down I do. I fulfill this need with superficial affairs and meaningless "friendships". I'm socially awkward. I never really learned how to interact with others. And I always feel like they know I don't know what I'm doing.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

