# Hiruma Family - Crab Clan

**description**: Having lost their lands to the spread of the Shadowlands centuries ago, the Hiruma family does little in the way of administration of territory or collection of taxes. Instead, members of this family train and serve as the eyes and ears of the Crab beyond the Wall, warning of attacks and staging spoiling raids when a particularly powerful horror begins to gather an army around itself. It is a desperate, dangerous task, but the warnings facilitated by the skills of the Hiruma allow the Crab to respond quickly to any threat, and their proactive strikes can save hundreds of lives. Due to the ceaseless danger of the Shadowlands, the Hiruma rotate between service beyond the Wall and service inside the Empire, where they function as scouts, messengers, and bodyguards. The Hiruma School teaches its adherents to fight in light armor rather than the heavy plate favored by the Hida, relying instead on speed and precision, for when facing a monster the size of a building in open ground, armor avails you little. Skill Proficiencies: Survival, choose one other Dexterity-based skill (Acrobatics, Sleight of Hand, or Stealth). Tool Proficiencies: Chemist’s kit, dice and cup. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot and Ivindi, one of the languages of the Ivory Kingdoms. Equipment: Traveling clothes or unremarkable garb, wakizashi, one finger of jade, chemist’s kit, dice and cup, and 3 gp. Background Feature: Know Your Enemy You grew up in the penumbra of the Shadowlands, and the threat it poses is second nature to you, granting you the following benefits: You know the signals with flares, flags, and smoke used along the Carpenter Wall, along with each one’s meaning. You can identify common Shadowlands creatures, such as the undead and lesser horrors, and you know how to dispatch them. You grew up hearing stories and songs of heroes who faced greater evils still, such as oni and Lost champions, and might have even seen one on the battlefield. You know all too well the whispered promises of power that pervade the Shadowlands and how to steel your soul against their call. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Crab Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Hiruma Skirmisher School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Hiruma Skirmisher school of warfare, make Dexterity and Wisdom your highest ability scores, and Constitution next to keep you in the fight. Begin in the bushi class. Consider selecting the Graceful Combatant feat for maximum flexibility in weapon use. At 3rd level, choose the Vanguard archetype, then switch to the shinobi class to improve your stealth and monster-hunting prowess. At 3rd level of shinobi, choose the Saboteur archetype for access to traps and contraptions. Put the rest of your levels into bushi or shinobi based on whether you want to emphasize durability or deadliness.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

