# Host

**description**: For years, your body was not your own. You lost control of yourself to a creature more powerful than you, known as your “rider”. You have more control of yourself now, but it may still influence your decisions, or you may still be a victim of stigma from the things you did under its control. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Perception Tool Proficiencies: Disguise kit and one instrument or gaming set. Languages: Two of your choice; your native language and one gained from the creature you were host to. Equipment: A book of supernatural creatures with pages ripped out, a piece of jewelry that doesn’t belong to you, two sets of common clothes, and a pouch containing 5gp. An Uninvited Guest What creature or force took control of you for its schemes? How did you get free? Work with your GM to determine exact details of your rider and your relationship to it, or roll on the table below. D8 Rider 1 Naivety or desperation drove me to attempt to summon a fiend, which tricked me into becoming its puppet. 2 While exterminating an unknown aberration, it implanted a piece of itself in me, which took me over. 3 A spirit escaped an exorcism by possessing my body. 4 A lich implanted a piece of its soul within me to preserve its own life, and its will overpowered mine. 5 I inhaled spores of a sentient fungal colony, which infected my brain and took control. 6 After a severe injury, I fell into a deathlike slumber, and a revenant inhabited my body as its vessel. 7 An elder genie, stricken with the ennui of immortality, took over my body as a flight of fancy. 8 A powerful celestial, believing I was destined to cause great strife, overtook me in the interest of the “greater good”. Feature: Monstrous Connection Your experiences with your rider grant you an unusual insight into how supernatural creatures think and behave. Note down the creature type of your rider (aberration, fiend, etc.). When confronted with a creature of this type, you can communicate simple ideas with it, even if it couldn’t normally communicate. If you communicate with such a creature as part of making a first impression while not in combat, the creature’s starting disposition is one step better than normal, from hostile to neutral, or neutral to friendly. Suggested Characteristics Being a host to a supernatural creature doesn’t have to define your character, but it should definitely have an effect on them. Here are some traits to flesh out the person they’ve become. D8 Personality Trait 1 I am largely unfazed by the supernatural, having been dealing with it for so long. 2 I never pass up an opportunity to learn about strange creatures and phenomena. 3 Whenever something interesting happens, I keep extensive notes on it, for fear my memory might fail me later. 4 I take opportunities to “test” my autonomy through chaotic and unpredictable gestures and actions. 5 I love making friends and meeting new people, since I’ve been restricted from doing so. 6 I sometimes come across as naive due to having been robbed of opportunities to grow. 7 My mannerisms come across as unusual or alien to common folk. 8 I often say things aloud that I meant to only say in my head without noticing. D6 Ideal 1 Freedom. Impinging on any creature’s autonomy is a cruel business. (Neutral) 2 Control. Servitude is the only serenity anyone can ever know. (Evil) 3 Authority. The word of greater powers must be observed. (Lawful) 4 Loyalty. No one is an island; we must act to serve others. (Good) 5 Change. Hierarchies that give one control over another must be destroyed. (Chaotic) 6 Survival. I fought for everything I have, and it’s up to others to do the same for themselves. (Any) D6 Bond 1 I’m still on rather good terms with my rider, either out of sympathy or familiarity. 2 I want to destroy my rider, and its kin. I will never forgive what was taken from me. 3 I have a high bounty on my head in some places for the actions of my rider. 4 A friend risked their life to give me my autonomy back, and I owe them dearly. 5 I have a list of people my rider wronged who I’m trying to make amends to. 6 I still carry out the work of my rider, but in my own way, now. D6 Flaw 1 I often try to “make up for lost time” by indulging too deeply in the pleasures of life. 2 I don’t like making decisions for myself, and will try to defer to others even when I’m the expert. 3 I can’t stand being alone; it feels wrong after having another consciousness with me for so long. 4 I take foolish risks with my body sometimes because I forget it’s no longer preserved by a powerful being. 5 My conscience is nearly nonexistent, as my only guiding role model was an alien intellect. 6 I still don’t really take my autonomy seriously, and don’t feel responsible for anything I do or that happens to me. Variant: Escape You may potentially have managed to purge your rider from your body in your travels. Here are some potential ways that could have happened. D4 Escape 1 A powerful ritual drove the creature out, nearly killing you in the process. 2 With years of planning and preparation, you were able to outsmart your rider and reassert control. 3 The rider’s work was complete, and it departed willingly, leaving you to clean up its mess. 4 Your rider abandoned your body when you were killed by adventurers, who later resurrected you.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

