# Ide Family - Unicorn Clan

**description**: In its centuries of wandering, the Unicorn Clan had a need for good ambassadors. It was Ide, one of Shinjo’s original followers, who helped her create alliances and navigate foreign powers in the early days of the clan’s great journey, and Ide’s descendants still perform this role for the clan. Today, the Ide tradition trains some of the finest ambassadors who have not only helped smooth the clan’s return to Rokugan, but also maintain its alliances with the Ujik, the Qamarist Caliphate, and beyond. Members of the Ide family tend to be very accustomed to foreign cultures, speak several languages, and might even have served in distant courts to promote the Unicorn Clan’s interests. Other members of the Ide family focus on trade, keeping resources flowing along the Sand Road into Rokugan to further bolster the Unicorn Clan’s prestige and influence. Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or gaming set, mounts. Weapon Proficiencies: Hunting bow. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and any two other common languages of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes, resplendent regalia, dagger or wakizashi, hunting bow and quiver, any one artisan tool or gaming set, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Child of the Five Winds You were raised in the Unicorn Clan, granting you the Clan of Shinjo’s unique perspective on the world. You gain the following benefits: You have an idea of politics outside the borders of Rokugan, which types of governments rule foreign lands, major conflicts between other countries, and what type of foreign imports make their way into Rokugan. You know many basic facts of life about foreign lands, particularly the Burning Sands, the Ivory Kingdoms, and beyond from stories your family has passed down of your ancestors who traveled to those lands. You know at least some foreign words from numerous languages, such as Nehiri, Ivindi, Myantu, and Portuga. You are not fully conversant in these languages unless you select them as known languages, but you can often discern a bit of meaning from familiar words. You know the basics of mounted combat tactics, along with various other aspects of the proper handling and care of horses. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Unicorn Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Ide Emissary School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Ide school of diplomacy, make Charisma and Wisdom your highest ability scores, followed by Constitution. Begin in the courtier class, selecting the Diplomat at 3rd level. Consider putting two levels into shinobi to develop your skills as a hunter and traveler, or put the rest of your levels into courtier to maximize your social prowess.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

