# Ikomo Family - Lion Clan

**description**: The Ikoma family are storytellers who weave history and myth into a grand tale of the Emerald Empire. They serve as the memory not only of the Lion Clan but of the Empire as a whole. Boasts, tears, and stories are the tools the Ikoma use to advance the Lion in the courts. While the Dragon Clan records history without clear bias, the Ikoma family of the Lion Clan glorify Rokugan and its leadership in all they create. Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Dice and cup, any one musical instrument. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and Courtly Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Resplendent regalia, unremarkable garb, wakizashi, dice and cup, any one musical instrument, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Know the Past, Find the Future You were raised in the Lion Clan, the most famous and expansive military power in Rokugan, granting you the following benefits: You know history quite well, especially as it pertains to military actions, political shifts in power, and various challenges faced by the Emerald Empire over the centuries. You know the current military situation in Rokugan and the lands beyond. You can identify and know the proper purpose of all Rokugani battlefield weapons, even if you are not personally proficient in their use. You know about common military maneuvers and engagements, such as feigned retreats, flank attacks, raids, and sieges. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Lion Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Ikoma Bard School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Ikoma school of history, make Charisma and Dexterity your highest ability scores, with Constitution as a third priority. Begin in the courtier class, selecting the Diplomat archetype at 3rd level. Pick rhetorical flourishes that needle your enemies and expose vulnerabilities in their defenses or inspire courage in your allies. Afterward, depending on your preferred playstyle for the character, put three levels into duelist to unlock the Deathdancer archetype, or put three levels into shinobi to reach the Infiltrator archetype to be a battlefield spy. Ikoma Shadow School Quick Build If you want to build a character trained in the Ikoma tradition of stealth and sabotage, make Intelligence and Dexterity your highest ability scores, with Wisdom as a third priority to keep your senses sharp. Begin in the courtier class to create a solid cover, but switch to the shinobi class after 1st level. Continue in the shinobi class, selecting the Saboteur archetype at 3rd level of shinobi. Then put the rest of your levels into shinobi, or detour back to courtier for two levels for the Investigator archetype to gain access to more rhetorical flourishes in order to gather key intelligence on your enemy’s weaknesses.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

