# Interpreter

**description**: In a galaxy with hundreds of systems, thousands of worlds, and a vast array of cultures, communication is a constant challenge. On the civilized worlds, maws, and other places where disparate peoples gather, professional interpreters are almost indispensable. Without them, business and diplomacy would be impossible, and misunderstandings and conflict would surely fill the void. Living in such vibrant places, it is only natural that interpreters should get caught up in the adventures and machinations of great people, and perhaps even rise to greatness themselves. The benefits they bring to an adventuring party, including information gathering and the ability to communicate with a wide range of individuals, are not to be sniffed at. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Persuasion Languages: Any two of your choice Equipment: A phrasebook, identification documents, a small recording device, a set of fine clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Flawless Protocol You have memorized a vast library of basic greetings, handshaking techniques and polite gestures from a thousand different cultures. You almost always know the correct way to address unusual aliens or foreign dignitaries and can even make some educated guesses, good enough to avoid giving offense, when it comes to strange or uncontacted peoples. Role You could have worked in several different environments as an interpreter. Choose one or roll on the table below: d8 Role 1 Diplomatic aide 2 Maw station staff 3 Personal assistant 4 Protocol servitor 5 Interplanetary legal counsel 6 Document translator 7 Historian/antiquarian/scholar of linguistics 8 Naval communications officer Suggested Characteristics Of all the people of the galaxy, very few spend more time around people than interpreters. Consequently, they tend to possess extremely refined social skills and personalities that revolve around people and relationships. d8 Personality Trait 1 I sometimes switch language mid-sentence without noticing. 2 I love to gossip. 3 I use long, complicated words that few people understand. 4 I get bored quickly when I’m on my own. 5 I have a fondness for puns and wordplay. 6 I enjoy learning about other cultures. 7 I stay up to date with all the latest political developments. 8 My typing speed is incredible. d6 Ideal 1 Accuracy. I aim to be precise and clear in everything I do. (Lawful) 2 Neutrality. The principles of neutrality and noninterference are critical to me. (Neutral) 3 Diplomacy. Nothing makes me happier than brokering peace by helping people to understand one another better. (Good) 4 Friendship. My closest pals are always my highest priority. (Any) 5 Manipulation. I seek to pull on strings behind the scenes, for my own benefit. (Evil) 6 Comedy. I live to tell jokes and play tricks on people! (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I am gradually translating a massive, multi-volume work from a distant planet. 2 I am on a quest to find the last living speaker of an ancient language, so that it can be preserved. 3 I have a friend on every maw. 4 I did some interpreting for a famous person, and made contacts in high places. 5 I have been asked to act as a go-between by two warring factions. 6 I will do whatever my guildmaster asks. d6 Flaw 1 I can’t keep my big mouth shut, even about important secrets. 2 I get anxious if I spend too much time alone. 3 I am a compulsive liar. 4 I am often too passive and slow to take action. 5 I am practically innumerate. 6 Powerful people are out to get me.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Dark Matter Starter Kit

