# Inventor

**description**: You were born and raised in the most technologically advanced city in the material plane, or maybe you had an apprenticeship from a master who belonged there. Perhaps you were born in the northern metropolis of Kryo Aima in the world of Igimas, or you grew up in the city of Sharn in the realm of Eberron. Ever since you were young you have seen marvelous creations that inspired you. Magically-fueled vehicles, golems, firearms and every piece of magitech you can imagine, these all left you in awe. Enough that you sought to learn how to make them yourself. And now you are seeking to forge your own path, through adventure. What inspired you to do so? Perhaps you are seeking to create something grand, unlike anything the world has seen and you need materials, inspiration and more knowledge. Or maybe you caught wind of some mysterious ruins where ancient technology and artifacts have been discovered? Whatever the reason, you have ventured out with purpose and ambition. Crafting Specialty What was the field of craftsmanship that you specialized in? d6 Crafting Specialty 1 Constructs and Golems 2 Magitech Weapon 3 Vehicles 4 Firearms 5 Architecture 6 Prosthetics Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, and choose one from Arcana, History or Perception Tool Proficiencies: Tinker's Tools and choose two of the following: Smith's Tools, Painter's Supplies, Woodcarver's Tools, Mason's Tools, Jeweler's Tools or Glassblower's Tools. Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: a set of common clothes, a dark leather apron, Tinker's tools, 4 oil flasks, a hammer, a magnifying glass, your first prototype invention of tiny size or smaller, a set of books on engineering and building and a pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Creator's Community With your knowledge and skill to create technological marvels you command the respect of all sorts of artists and craftsmen to whom you present your work. Provided nothing has happened to make them hostile to you, these folks will regard you in a very positive light. They will aid you with their local connections, through which you'll be able to learn about good places to purchase or acquire raw materials, information about the identities of remarkable people in your line of work and even possible individuals who might be interested in buying your creations or commissioning you for custom projects. Suggested Characteristics To be an inventor is to have a much different view of the world than most. Maybe you're motivated by profit, seeing all the world can provide as resources to fuel your ambitions. Or perhaps knowledge itself is what drives you, learning how the world itself works beyond the complexities of magic. It could very well be that you view your inventions as the one way you can acquire power for yourself. Whatever the reason, you have chosen a life of adventure. How did this particular way of seeing the world shape the person you are? d8 Personality Trait 1 I treat all my projects and creations with the same care an overprotective parent does for their kids. 2 I zone out or try to change the topic at hand if it isn't interesting to me. 3 I often quote famous inventors and engineers, while adding my own sprinkle of wisdom. 4 When there is nothing to do, or I am deeply in thought, I get my hands busy by disassembling and putting back together the closest item. 5 The moment I see a scrap of metal, wood or unique stone I cannot help but take it. It might be useful for something later. 6 It is impossible to hold back when I see a new device. I need to know how it works! 7 I constantly write down notes about my observations and make sketches of any interesting discoveries. 8 When excited I tend to speed up my speech to the point of it sounding like gibberish. d6 Ideal 1 Convenience. I design and create my inventions to make life easier for myself and others. (Any) 2 Organization. Everything has its place. In that place is where it should be. (Lawful) 3 Change. Progress is a wave. I need to ride it and won't let regulations or stagnation get in my way. (Chaotic) 4 Helping Hand. The ultimate goal of all my creations is to help out the people who need help the most. (Good) 5 Self-sufficient. I create in order to serve myself and those close to me. If someone else wants inventions they can either pay me or start inventing themselves. (Neutral) 6 War Profiteer. As long as there's someone who wants to hurt others, I have a business opportunity. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 My first workshop is nothing but ruins. I don't know if it was an accident or sabotage, but I need to find the truth. 2 Every invention I make has a secondary objective. To outdo my rival and show I'm the better inventor. 3 An old partner of mine stole some very valuable research and plans I spent years working on. I'm going to get them back, by force if needed. 4 Once upon a time, a child was in awe of my inventions. I'd like to make such emotions blossom in the hearts of others for as long as I can. 5 All the royalties I receive for my inventions go to my family. I need to make sure they are alright. 6 I do not enjoy the company of other people all that much. The simple intelligence of my creations is a lot more comfortable to be in the presence of. d6 Flaw 1 I may enjoy my destructive inventions a bit too much. 2 The next person who insults my craftsmanship will find a hammer flying towards their eye. 3 I will snap at anyone who is disrupting my concentration when working. 4 I have the finesse of a hammer when it comes to idle chatter. 5 Sometimes I end up treating people as idiots when I realize they don't understand my work. 6 One time, years ago, one of my creations mangled a noble's face by accident. To this day they hunt me down.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

