# Isawa Family - Phoenix Clan

**description**: The Elemental Masters who sit on the Council of Five are the true rulers of the Phoenix, and these masters are almost always drawn from the Isawa family. These masters come from a venerable tradition; the Isawa family’s ritualist school predates even the Emerald Empire itself, having been brought south by inhabitants of the Dawn Peaks region centuries before the fall of the divine siblings. The Isawa have a continuous culture stretching back to their ancient homeland, and have also had centuries to learn to commune with the spirits that abide in Rokugan and the most effective ways to request their blessings. Skill Proficiencies: Religion, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, or Nature). Tool Proficiencies: Any one mystic implement. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Jindallaean, and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Sanctified vestments, wakizashi, any one mystic implement, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Spiritual Knowledge You were raised in the Phoenix Clan with access to some of the most secretive and sacred lore in Rokugan, granting you the following benefits: You are familiar with the religious practices of Rokugan, such as the rites practiced by various priesthoods, the invocations of ritualists, the Teachings of Shinsei, and even the traditions that existed before the Empire’s foundation, such as the traditions of the Isawa and the ritual practices of the people who dwell in the Dawn Peaks. You know some of the most significant spirits that reside across the land from stories or perhaps even personal interaction. You have an instinctive feeling for when the spirits of a place have become imbalanced or disquieted. You know the names and locations of all major shrines in Rokugan. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Phoenix Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Isawa Elementalist School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Isawa school of rituals, make Intelligence and Constitution your highest ability scores. Begin in the ritualist class, choosing the Elementalist archetype at 2rd level. Put the rest of your levels into ritualist to reach the Rhythm of Elements feature for extremely powerful invocations, or consider a brief detour into courtier for the Investigator archetype to play up your character’s scholarly tendencies.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

