# Iuchi Family - Unicorn Clan

**description**: The Iuchi are a ritualist family whose practices stretch back to the Unicorn Clan’s departure from Rokugan. Having left behind the spirits of his homeland, Shinjo’s follower Iuchi learned a unique mystic art called the way of names, which allowed him to command and bind spirits within powerful talismans. Iuchi learned numerous different forms of mysticism and sorcery during his long life, but his heirs have focused on the way of names, honing it into a potent art. Now that they have returned to Rokugan, however, the Iuchi family face scrutiny from the Phoenix Clan, whose priests are concerned about the risks of introducing this new form of magic into Rokugan that the Phoenix Clan neither controls nor fully understands. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or mystic implement, mounts. Weapon Proficiencies: Hunting bow. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and Ujik. Equipment: Sanctified vestments or traveling clothes, dagger or wakizashi, any one artisan tool or mystic implement, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Child of the Five Winds You were raised in the Unicorn Clan, granting you the Clan of Shinjo’s unique perspective on the world. You gain the following benefits: You have an idea of politics outside the borders of Rokugan, which types of governments rule foreign lands, major conflicts between other countries, and what type of foreign imports make their way into Rokugan. You know many basic facts of life about foreign lands, particularly the Burning Sands, the Ivory Kingdoms, and beyond from stories your family has passed down of your ancestors who traveled to those lands. You know at least some foreign words from numerous languages, such as Nehiri, Ivindi, Myantu, and Portuga. You are not fully conversant in these languages unless you select them as known languages, but you can often discern a bit of meaning from familiar words. You know the basics of mounted combat tactics, along with various other aspects of the proper handling and care of horses. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Unicorn Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Iuchi Artisan School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Iuchi way of names, make Intelligence and Constitution your highest ability scores. Begin in the ritualist class, and choose the Artisan archetype at 2rd level, selecting Charm Creation as your mystic craft. Put the rest of your levels into ritualist to maximize your spiritual potency.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

