# Ivory Kingdoms Naga - Non-Human

**description**: In the Ivory Kingdoms, naga inhabit many of the rivers. They rule great underwater cities, which only a few humans are ever lucky enough to visit due to the logistical difficulties of keeping a human both underwater and alive for long periods of time. However, they often visit the cities of humans, trading with the various fractious kingdoms that, in the eyes of the naga, seem to rise and fall in days. The naga as a whole generally stay out of the political affairs of humans when they can avoid it, but they have been known to send warriors to assist the Yodha of the Ghostlands in fighting rakshasa and other horrors that would defile the lands of human and naga alike. Individual naga sometimes do become embroiled in human affairs, though this is generally seen as risky behavior due to the short time horizon on which most humans seem to think and operate. In the Ivory Kingdoms, most naga do not bother to charm humans with an illusion of a human form, and most humans are not especially surprised to see naga going about their business. Naga trade pearls, fish, and certain underwater commodities for precious stones such as coral and durable metalwork, gold being the most common. They generally wear no clothing, or a few accenting accessories of materials that do not rust or rot in water. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool of your choice. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, River Speech, and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Any one artisan tool of your choice and 5 gp. Suggested Feats: Artisan’s Ingenuity, Genuine Idealist, Watchful Ancestors. Background Feature: Walker of Secret Ways You were raised among a culture that consists predominantly of nonhumans, and might not even be in the Mortal Realm. As such, you have a different way of understanding the world than most humans, granting you the following benefits: You know the history of your own culture and how it has interacted with other groups across the centuries. You know a great deal about passing through regions that human inhabitants of Rokugan generally view as impassable in relative safety, such as through the spirit realms, the Shadowlands, or the Shinomen Forest. You can identify the dangers and areas of safety in these places. You instinctively recognize the taboos of spirits and otherworldly beings when visiting their domains, though you do not necessarily have all the information needed to deal with them. You know about the various realms below, beside, and above, and can recognize the common markers of their inhabitants.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

