# Izzet Engineer

**description**: Armed with an inventive intellect, a love of magical technology, and an unquenchable energy, you are an enthusiastic participant in the research work of the Izzet League . Though you’re likely to begin your career as a mere attendant, you can aspire to become a skilled mage or alchemist, a laboratory supervisor, or even a flamethrower-wielding scorchbringer tasked with defending Izzet laboratories. The Izzet are obsessive, brilliant, inspired, and an unpredictable force of chaos in Ravnica, and you epitomize all of those qualities. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Investigation Languages: Choose one of Draconic, Goblin, or Vedalken Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools Equipment: An Izzet insignia, one set of artisan’s tools, the charred and twisted remains of a failed experiment, a hammer, a block and tackle, a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 5 gp (Azorius 1-zino coins) Feature: Urban Infrastructure The popular conception of the Izzet League is based on mad inventions, dangerous experiments, and explosive blasts. Much of that perception is accurate, but the league is also involved with mundane tasks of construction and architecture—primarily in crafting the infrastructure that allows Ravnicans to enjoy running water, levitating platforms, and other magical and technological wonders. You have a basic knowledge of the structure of buildings, including the stuff behind the walls. You can also find blueprints of a specific building in order to learn the details of its construction. Such blueprints might provide knowledge of entry points, structural weaknesses, or secret spaces. Your access to such information isn’t unlimited. If obtaining or using the information gets you in trouble with the law, the guild can’t shield you from the repercussions. Izzet Guild Spells Prerequisite: Spellcasting or Pact Magic class feature For you, the spells on the Izzet Guild Spells table are added to the spell list of your spellcasting class. (If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these spells are added to all of them.) Izzet Guild Spells Spell Level Spells Cantrip produce flame, shocking grasp 1st chaos bolt, create or destroy water, unseen servant 2nd heat metal, rope trick 3rd call lightning, elemental weapon, glyph of warding 4th conjure minor elementals, divination, Otiluke's resilient sphere 5th animate objects, conjure elemental Your spells tend to be loud, flashy, or explosive, even when the effect is unremarkable. For example, when you open the portal of a rope trick spell, the portal might be outlined by harmless, showy sparkles. If you use an arcane focus, it probably takes the form of an intricate device that could include metal gauntlets, glass canisters, copper tubing, and leather straps attaching it to your body. The mizzium apparatus described in chapter 5 is a magical version of this gear. The chaos bolt spell is a favorite of Izzet spellcasters because of its unpredictable nature. Suggested Characteristics Members of the Izzet League embody some combination of chaotic, frenetic energy with intellectual curiosity, in varying proportions. Some are committed to academic pursuits, and others just like explosions. Personality Traits d8 Personality Trait 1 I have a hard time staying focused on … oh, and my brain tends to jump from one … did I mention focus? 2 I get really excited about my ideas and I can’t wait to talk about them and start putting them into practice and tinkering with them and I want to tell you about how exciting it all is! 3 It’s not magic—or anything, really—if you do it only halfway. Whatever I do, I give it all I’ve got. 4 I do what my gut tells me. 5 Life’s an experiment, and I can’t wait to see what happens. 6 I pepper my speech with the incomprehensible jargon of my trade, like mizzium droplets inserted into a weird-field suspension. 7 Great ideas are fine, but great results are what counts. 8 If you can guess what I’m about to do, that means I’ve run out of imagination. Ideals d6 Ideal 1 Guild. My guild is all that really matters. (Any) 2 Creativity. Half the world’s troubles come from stodgy thinking, stuck in the past. We need innovative solutions. (Chaotic) 3 Discovery. Every experiment has the potential to reveal more secrets of the multiverse. (Any) 4 Science. A rigorous application of logical principles and protocols will lead us toward progress more surely than any belief system. (Lawful) 5 Fun. I love my job! Despite the dangerous working conditions, there’s nothing I’d rather do. (Chaotic) 6 Power. Someday I’ll find or create the magic that will make me the most powerful being in Ravnica. (Evil) Bonds d6 Bond 1 I have dedicated my life to finding a solution to a scientific problem. 2 I’ll never forget the laboratory where I learned my skills, or the other attendants who learned alongside me. 3 I’m convinced it was sabotage that destroyed my first laboratory and killed many of my friends, and I seek revenge against whoever did it. 4 I have the schematics for an invention that I hope to build one day, once I have the necessary resources. 5 A fellow student and I are racing to solve the same scientific puzzle. 6 I would do anything the guildmaster told me to do. Flaws d6 Flaw 1 If there’s a plan, I’ll probably forget it. If I don’t forget it, I’ll probably ignore it. 2 I get bored easily, and if nothing is happening I’ll make something happen. 3 Nothing is ever simple, and if it seems simple, I’ll find a way to make it complicated. 4 I tend to ignore sleep for days when I’m conducting research, often at the expense of my own health and safety. 5 I’m convinced there’s not a soul in Ravnica, except maybe the great Niv-Mizzet , who can match my boundless intellect. 6 I’m incapable of admitting a flaw in my logic.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Guildmasters' Guide to Ravnica

