# Journalist

**description**: Similar to other cosmopolitan cities with huge populations, journalists or radio hosts are well-known in Tolia. Both occupations are considered useful tools for the ruling class and citizens. The ruling classes use them for propaganda, while citizens need them to learn about their cities and community. Even though there is no journalism school in Tolia, agencies and senior journalists find newbies and teach them the ropes. The rookies usually work as assistants, reporters, and artists (drawing crime scenes and portraits) in their first few years. After spending a few more years on the job, they start to form relationships with the higher-ups of their city that are usually beneficial for both. The higher-ups need advertisement and propaganda while journalists need money and protection. You are a journalist or a radio programmer who tries to survive the chaotic political and social environment of Tolia. Unless you are incredibly famous, you probably work for long hours and are underpaid. Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and Insight Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A notebook and papers, a set of common clothes, and a wallet containing 150 KF/CS Feature: Know Where to Look Your years on the job have taught how to investigate properly and do proper research. You have advantage on your Intelligence (Investigation) checks. Suggested Characteristics You have a tendency to seek out new acquaintances who you think may be useful, and to develop a relationship with them. d8 Personality Trait 1 I talk too much. 2 I like having power over important people through knowledge. 3 I hate my job but I don’t have a better way to make money in mind. 4 My words are my weapon of choice. I can make anything public. 5 It’s very hard for me to trust people. Those who appear to mean well often have dirty secrets. 6 I believe my job is the most important of all, and that people owe me respect because of it. 7 I work hard because I don’t know how else to live. 8 I love my job. d6 Ideal 1 Information. I must inform and thus protect the citizens. (Good) 2 Personage. Information is the path to glory. (Any) 3 Revolution. I secretly support anarchists and want to overthrow the rulers. (Chaotic) 4 Retribution. The rulers of the city must pay for all the misery. (Any) 5 Loyal. I support the system. (Any) 6 Objective. I never let my opinions and emotions affect my work. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I would die to make important news that can challenge the system. 2 I would do anything to help the citizens of Tolia. 3 I will become the greatest journalist/radio host there ever was. 4 It is my duty to teach rookies how to be real journalists. 5 I work hard to preserve my newspaper/ radio channel. 6 My work is my life. d6 Flaw 1 I am obsessed with my news being interesting. 2 I cower away when things go wrong. 3 I would do anything to be famous. 4 My articles and shows are too long. 5 I love scandals and I love causing them. 6 I believe propaganda is necessary, even if it’s fake news.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

