# Kaito Family - Phoenix Clan

**description**: The small Kaito family has been given the task of safeguarding the many shrines scattered across the Phoenix holdings, from small altars sheltered by a single tree to massive sanctuaries. To fulfill their responsibilities, the Kaito have mastered the use of charmed arrows and prayers to protect the shrines from spiritual foes, and practical archery to fend off more mortal dangers. The Kaito are rarely seen outside the Phoenix lands, as they have so many tasks within, but they occasionally make pilgrimages to visit other shrines. Skill Proficiencies: Nature, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Bowyer’s kit, any one other artisan tool. Weapon Proficiencies: Hunting bow. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Sanctified vestments, wakizashi, hunting bow, quiver, bowyer’s kit, any one other artisan tool, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Spiritual Knowledge You were raised in the Phoenix Clan with access to some of the most secretive and sacred lore in Rokugan, granting you the following benefits: You are familiar with the religious practices of Rokugan, such as the rites practiced by various priesthoods, the invocations of ritualists, the Teachings of Shinsei, and even the traditions that existed before the Empire’s foundation, such as the traditions of the Isawa and the ritual practices of the people who dwell in the Dawn Peaks. You know some of the most significant spirits that reside across the land from stories or perhaps even personal interaction. You have an instinctive feeling for when the spirits of a place have become imbalanced or disquieted. You know the names and locations of all major shrines in Rokugan. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Phoenix Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Kaito Shrinekeeper School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Kaito tradition of shrinekeeping, make Dexterity and Wisdom your highest ability scores. Begin in the bushi class for proficiency with various weapons including the longbow. After 1st level, switch to the ritualist class for two levels, selecting the Artisan archetype and Charm Creation as your mystic craft. Then, return to the bushi class for two levels, selecting the Vanguard archetype at your 3rd bushi level to use the Versatility of Form feature with special arrows for maximum effect. Divide the rest of your levels between ritualist and bushi as you see fit based on emphasizing the spiritual or martial sides of your character.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

