# Kaiu Family - Crab Clan

**description**: Monuments to the skill of the Kaiu family’s engineers and architects are everywhere in the Crab lands, from the vast Kaiu Wall itself to the armor and weapons used by those who stand guard over it. The Kaiu family is responsible for maintaining the road network supporting the fortifications, the siege engines that crush and shatter the Shadowlands forces, and defensive works spread across the interior of the Crab holdings. As a result, members of the family are taught to think logically while remaining open to creativity, and seek both practical and innovative solutions to the Crab Clan’s unending and ever-evolving problems. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Mason’s kit, any one other artisan tool. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or traveling clothes, wakizashi, one finger of jade, mason’s kit, any one artisan tool, and 5 gp. Background Feature: Know Your Enemy You grew up in the penumbra of the Shadowlands, and the threat it poses is second nature to you, granting you the following benefits: You know the signals with flares, flags, and smoke used along the Carpenter Wall, along with each one’s meaning. You can identify common Shadowlands creatures, such as the undead and lesser horrors, and you know how to dispatch them. You grew up hearing stories and songs of heroes who faced greater evils still, such as oni and Lost champions, and might have even seen one on the battlefield. You know all too well the whispered promises of power that pervade the Shadowlands and how to steel your soul against their call. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Crab Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Kaiu Engineer School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Kaiu Engineer school of warfare, make Intelligence and Dexterity your highest ability scores, with Wisdom next. Begin in the bushi class for proficiency with armor and crossbows. After one level, switch to the courtier class. At 3rd level of courtier, choose the Investigator archetype to reflect your detail-oriented training. Put the rest of your levels into bushi if you want to emphasize direct conflict, or multiclass again to shinobi and select the Saboteur archetype at 3rd level for access to traps and other innovative battlefield weapons for your siegecraft.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

