# Kakita Family - Crane Clan

**description**: The Kakita family maintains two of the most renowned academies in the Empire: the Kakita Duelist Academy and the Kakita Artisan Academy. Each of these traditions has produced some of the finest artists of every generation. Duelists wield the sword, protecting the Crane Clan’s interests with sharp finality, and artisans write, paint, and sculpt works that stirs hearts for generations. The students of the Kakita tradition are encouraged to master a single art absolutely. For duelists, this often means focusing on iaijutsu , the draw-cut technique that they use to win the Crane Clan’s legal contests with other clans. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or any one musical instrument. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak, read, and write Courtly Rokugani, an archaic version of the language used in many old texts and in some ceremonies. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or traveling clothes, wakizashi, any one artisan tool or musical instrument, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Courts and Culture You have a strong awareness of the politics within Crane lands and beyond, granting you the following benefits: You can name major family heads and other leaders, and you know their respective positions, allegiances, heraldry, and relationships. You know about the state of political affairs between the clans. You know proper etiquette and protocol in the Imperial Capital. You have a working knowledge of the high arts and the great masters of old. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Crane Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Kakita Artisan School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Kakita Artisan school, make Charisma and Wisdom your highest ability scores. Begin in the courtier class. After 2nd level, switch to the ritualist class for two levels, selecting the Artisan archetype. Pick the mystic craft that best fits your character’s art. Afterward, switch back to courtier for the remainder of your levels. Kakita Duelist School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Kakita school of dueling, make Dexterity and Wisdom your highest ability scores, with Constitution as a third priority. Begin in the duelist class. When available, choose the iaijutsu cut martial techniques, and crescent moon defense to empower your counterattacks. At 3rd level, select the Blademaster archetype. Put all additional levels into duelist, or put three levels into courtier and select the Diplomat archetype for a more politically savvy character.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

