# Karelagne Naval Magewright

**description**: Karelagne Naval Magewright “Few things are as beautiful as a ship under full sail, breaking through the aether.” You have spent your life in service to the glory and power of the Karelagne Navy, utilizing your technical and magical prowess to build advanced aether vehicles to ensure nothing stands against the Empire’s might. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Investigation Tool Proficiencies: Tinker’s tools, vehicles (choice of air, land, or sea) Equipment: A naval uniform, ink drawing of the first ship you worked on, tinker’s tools, and a pouch containing 20 gp Bonus Trait: Improviser Officer Progression: If you use the optional Seafarer Advancement Rules (see chapter 7), you increase your officer station rank by one in your choice of shipwright or boatswain Feature: Swift Ship Mend Years of service in the Karelagne Navy have enabled you to swiftly diagnose and mend vehicles. You fix problems on the fly, using your instincts and experience to guide you. While under duress, you gain advantage on checks made to repair a vehicle of your chosen type. Suggested Characteristics Naval Magewrights are the lifeblood of a vehicle, a necessary component to keep sailing. They use a combination of magic and technology to patch things together quickly in emergencies. Many are steadfast and responsible, while others reflect the unpredictable nature of the sea with personalities as chaotic as their repair methods. Personality Trait d8 Personality 1 I find people barely tolerable. None are as interesting as the vehicles that sail the seas. 2 My understanding of the vehicles on the aether seems unconventional. I always trust my gut when making choices. 3 I love being around others, always enthusiastically sharing my knowledge and expertise. 4 Blending magic and technology is an art form. All my creations include intricate designs that are both functional and exquisite. 5 The winds and seas of the Expanse speak to me. My whispered responses have labeled me a weather witch, a moniker I wear with pride. 6 I remain unfazed by even the most shocking situations, facing them with a strange, calm detachment. 7 Becoming a skilled magewright was not a path I chose. I resent being forced to live my life in the navy. 8 Others falsely believe that my soft voice means that I am weak. I use this to my advantage. Ideal d6 Ideal 1 Art. The Starlight Seas are the epitome of art. I seek to manipulate its currents to create stunning ephemeral creations. 2 Discovery. Sailing the expanse is exciting, but nothing thrills me more than discovering an unsolved puzzle or unraveling a mystery. 3 Understanding. I spend my time constructing elemental sea charts and searching for a deeper meaning in the universe through its currents. 4 Meaning. I am transfixed by language, often overanalyzing other people’s speech to find meaning where there is none. 5 Protection. I believe that the planar portals are incursions endangering my native plane. With the knowledge I gain, I seek to repair these rifts. 6 A Dream. When I was young, a dream spoke to me of another elemental plane. I have obsessed over its existence my whole life, but have yet to find this unnamed plane. Bond d6 bond 1 I have an affinity for magic and technology, and work to blend them together more seamlessly. 2 I have an easy manner that encourages others to trust me with their deepest secrets. I use my sympathetic ear to impart the wisdom of the seas. 3 I was gravely injured when a strange elemental creature saved my life. I have vowed to repay its kindness. 4 My family has served on my ship for generations, and it is my heritage and legacy. I ensure it remains a true home to its crew. 5 Long ago, a dying crewmember’s mind was stamped upon mine. I use the memories imprinted upon me to ensure they are never forgotten. 6 I am driven to make my current ship outstrip all others with new innovations in naval magic. Flaw d6 Flaw 1 Due to an explosion, my ears ring constantly, sometimes making it difficult to hear important commands or whispers. 2 I am obsessed with the perfect ship, which causes me to overwork, neglect other aspects of my life, and be perpetually exhausted. 3 I have become so reliant upon magic and ritual that I struggle to perform tasks without them. 4 Jealousy has clouded my heart, and I work to undermine my superior officers or subtly sabotage my ship. 5 I am as unpredictable as the seas. My volatile nature makes those around me nervous and stressed. 6 I suffer from bouts of memory loss. This causes me to repeat tasks I’ve already accomplished or to lose track of time and events.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 32048

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

