# Kitsuki Family - Dragon Clan

**description**: The samurai of the Kitsuki family are most well-known for their training’s emphasis on keen perception and their investigative techniques that rely upon making the most of physical evidence, including the smallest clues other magistrates might overlook. A small family, they serve the Empire as magistrates and the Dragon Clan as courtiers. In both roles, their eye for deception and knack for finding the truth serve them well. Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool of your choice. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes, unremarkable garb, wakizashi, swordbreaker, any one tool of your choice, and 8 gp. Background Feature: Life in the Mountains You have lived in the rugged mountains of Dragon lands for much of your life and know the environment and culture well, granting you the following benefits: You know who within your clan has been awarded membership into the Inner Circle of Togashi, although you would not be privy to the secrets of the Inner Circle unless you are also a member. You know more about monastic life and traditions than most other clans, having likely interacted with the Togashi Order throughout your life. Due to the rugged nature of your homeland, you know how to properly prepare mountain flora and wildlife for human consumption. You have a working understanding of many physical phenomena of the natural world and the beauty and dangers present in wild lands. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Dragon Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Kitsuki Investigator School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Kitsuki school of investigation, make Intelligence and Dexterity your highest ability scores, with Wisdom as a third priority. Begin in the courtier class, selecting the Investigator archetype at 3rd level. Focus on rhetorical flourishes that gather clues about your foes, letting you weaken them to your allies’ attacks. Afterward, consider a detour into either duelist or shinobi for three levels, depending on whether you want to emphasize your character’s direct combat or subtle investigation skills. Then put the rest of your levels into courtier.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

