# Knotted Tails Tribe - Non-Human

**description**: The Shadowlands is a harsh environment even for beings immune to its corrupting influence, filled with cunning horrors and ravening undead. Some nezumi tribes have dedicated warriors among them, trained to fight these threats for the tribe from birth, but this is not the case for the Knotted Tails. Being a relatively small tribe of a few dozen, most members of the tribe take on different roles as necessary, and no roles are considered demeaning. Every Knotted Tails nezumi is thus not only a guardian, but also a scavenger, lookout, healer, and pup-sitter. Though their martial discipline is somewhat informal, many wear armor constructed from scraps of metal and wood, or scavenged from the dead. In recent years, some among the Knotted Tails have even become enamored with the valor of the humans they have seen face terrible odds in the Shadowlands, and have sought out any information they can on human martial virtue from the members of the Crab Clan who visit their lands. Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Blacksmith’s kit or bowyer’s kit. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Stone-Click, and one other language of your choice. Equipment: Animal-hide armor or unremarkable garb, club, field medicine kit, whetstone, blacksmith’s kit or bowyer’s kit, and 5 sp. Suggested Feats: Artisan’s Ingenuity, Battlefield Training, Survivalist’s Eye. Background Feature: Walker of Secret Ways You were raised among a culture that consists predominantly of nonhumans, and might not even be in the Mortal Realm. As such, you have a different way of understanding the world than most humans, granting you the following benefits: You know the history of your own culture and how it has interacted with other groups across the centuries. You know a great deal about passing through regions that human inhabitants of Rokugan generally view as impassable in relative safety, such as through the spirit realms, the Shadowlands, or the Shinomen Forest. You can identify the dangers and areas of safety in these places. You instinctively recognize the taboos of spirits and otherworldly beings when visiting their domains, though you do not necessarily have all the information needed to deal with them. You know about the various realms below, beside, and above, and can recognize the common markers of their inhabitants.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

