# Kuni Family - Crab Clan

**description**: No ritualist tradition is more feared in the Emerald Empire than that of the Kuni family, which teaches its members to root out any sign of evil, whether in Crab lands or beyond. The Kuni family has an extremely unusual structure, even for a family built around maintaining religious traditions. While most members of the family serve in administrative roles or train as warriors, those with the knack for speaking to spirits are trained not by a series of teachers alongside fellow students, but by a single mentor, with whom they are apprenticed. This means that there is little hierarchy or accountability within the so-called Kuni Purifier School: each teacher is expected to devise their own curriculum and methodology, with only occasional gatherings by the entire group to share findings. As a result, some Kuni are willing to delve far deeper into the dark secrets of the Shadowlands than is advisable. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Alchemist’s kit. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also read Kuni ciphers, a series of symbolic codes used to conceal dangerous secret knowledge that members of the Kuni tradition encounter. Equipment: Sanctified vestments or unremarkable garb, wakizashi, one finger of jade, alchemist’s kit, and 5 gp. Background Feature: Know Your Enemy You grew up in the penumbra of the Shadowlands, and the threat it poses is second nature to you, granting you the following benefits: You know the signals with flares, flags, and smoke used along the Carpenter Wall, along with each one’s meaning. You can identify common Shadowlands creatures, such as the undead and lesser horrors, and you know how to dispatch them. You grew up hearing stories and songs of heroes who faced greater evils still, such as oni and Lost champions, and might have even seen one on the battlefield. You know all too well the whispered promises of power that pervade the Shadowlands and how to steel your soul against their call. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Crab Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Kuni Purifier School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Kuni Purifier school of rituals, make Intelligence and Dexterity your highest ability scores. Begin in the bushi class for one level to improve your durability and gain access to martial weapons. Then switch to the ritualist class, selecting the Elementalist archetype at 2nd level. Focus on selecting invocations that inflict negative conditions on Lost creatures, like jade strike and Lady Sun’s smile , and select either Earth or Fire for your elemental alignment. Switch to shinobi for one level to get the Merciless Strikes, Expert Prowler, and Ninjutsu features to help you in clandestine ventures. From here, put the rest of your levels into ritualist or bushi depending on whether you want to focus on more powerful invocations or greater melee combat potential.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

