# Legendary Lineage

**description**: You have heroes in your family background and the story of your ancestors is known far and wide. Perhaps your parents were a famous adventuring duo, or a grandparent hunted and killed great evils. Maybe your heroic bloodline has many heroes within it going back as far as any can remember. Whatever the case, the deeds of those who came before you are great and the public's expectation of your accomplishments is even greater. The weight of your family name affects all you do. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, History Tool Proficiencies: Vehicles (land) Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of traveler's clothes, a wood figure made in the likeness of an ancestor, a signet ring, a gaming set in which you are proficient, and a belt pouch containing 15 gp Feature: Good Reputation Since your family name is known, you can reap many benefits by flying the flag of your heritage. People in positions of power and privilege are willing to take a meeting with you and grant you favors. The DM decides the extent and effect of these favors, but they shouldn't involve lavish gifts or great personal risk to the granter. Suggested Characteristics You've lived a different life than those less famous than you, and probably don't know yourself as well as you should. Since birth you've been told you are special and destined for greatness, which is an idea you may be eager to prove or disprove. You're used to being under pressure and to folks talking about you both to your face and behind your back. As you start your adventuring career you have a choice to make. Most people of a heroic lineage who adventure either embrace the family name or try to get out there and make their own way. The result, however, is the same–a determined hero trying to show the world they're something more just a lucky kid with the right parents. d8 Personality Traits 1 I am polite and humble to all who fawn over me. 2 I'm sure you've heard of the great heroes of my family, but let me tell you anyway. 3 I am quiet in public and don't enjoy being noticed. 4 I boast about how I will put my ancestors’ deeds to shame. 5 I am attracted to people who don't fawn over me right away. 6 I often find reasons to excuse myself from large groups of people who love me for my name. 7 I am able to fake smile for anyone, even if I hate that person. 8 I always ask for people to give me free stuff because I can. d6 Ideals 1 Family. I intend to uphold my family name. (Lawful) 2 Superiority. I was born better than everyone and so I deserve better than everyone. (Evil) 3 Individuality. I am not my family's name and will make my own legend. (Chaotic) 4 Leadership. I feel a call beyond my heritage to protect the people who look to me. (Good) 5 Aspiration. I want to make the people who believe in me proud. (Neutral) 6 Generosity. I was lucky to be born into this family and I will give back to those less fortunate. (Good) d6 Bonds 1 I wield the same weapon my ancestor used. 2 No one knows the real me like my childhood best friend. 3 A parent won't respect me until I make good on the family name. 4 I would do anything to protect the town where I grew up. 5 I have my eye on a quiet cottage to which I plan to retire. 6 I feel like the only person who really gets me is my dog. d6 Flaws 1 I can only handle so much fawning before I explode in anger. 2 If not praised constantly, I doubt myself. 3 If you speak ill of my ancestors, I will punch you in the face. 4 I prefer to have someone else fix my personal problems. 5 I put down others to boost my own confidence. 6 If something is fashionable, I avoid it at all costs.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Castle Skydawn Design

**book**: Xanathar's Lost Notes to Everything Else

