# Mage Craft Dissident

**description**: Mage Craft Dissident “Fools sing their songs of lament and prose, unaware their downfall is of their own making.” Mage Craft Dissidents are spellcasters who have cast off the crutch of technology, believing its usage will lead to civilization’s downfall. Utilizing the aether by drinking tiny amounts of the poisonous liquid, these spellcasters enter what they call “wraith dreams” - vivid hallucinations believed to be eerie premonitions of the future, often involving impending doom and disaster. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Insight Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of common clothes, a small book of arcane lore, a tiny vial of liquid aether, and a pouch containing 10 gp Bonus Trait : Tireless Officer Progression: If you use the optional Seafarer Advancement Rules (see chapter 7), you increase your officer station rank by one in your choice of quartermaster or surgeon Feature: Wraith Dreams Imbibing small quantities of aether, you can induce a state of lucid dreaming called wraith dreams, which gift you with visions of the future. Once a day, these dreams grant you advantage on a single knowledge check. However, if you drink more than a mouthful of aether, you are still subject to the harmful effects of aether poisoning. Suggested Characteristics Mage Craft Dissidents are secretive by design, often thought fools or deemed too dangerous. Generally, being followers of time, they seek to hide in plain sight, waiting for their visions to be proven right. Personality Trait d8 Personality 1 I believe everything is interconnected and I look for ways to find my connections to everything I encounter. 2 I view time as a false construct and ignore demands to delay or rush any action. 3 Having seen visions of the dismal future, I work tirelessly to save the world from this horror. 4 Only the most powerful wielders of the arcane should be allowed to use aether. It disgusts me to see others use it flippantly. 5 I try to appear more intelligent than I am. I overuse metaphors – often incorrectly. 6 Being the center of attention terrifies me. Mice are louder than I am, and I speak in the softest of tones. 7 I am harshly rigid in my life. Everything has a purpose and must be planned out exactly. 8 Concerned with being misunderstood due to my speech, I speak slowly and overexplain things. Ideal d6 Ideal 1 Prevent Catastrophe. Our understanding of the Starlight Sea is flawed. We must learn its true purpose before it consumes us. 2 Nature. True magical power is found in the verdant reaches of the wilds. We must preserve these spaces before all magic is lost. 3 Ancestors. The spirits of our loved ones flow around. I wish to understand these spirits and bring them peace. 4 Education. I work tirelessly to educate those around me about the sorrows and pain of technology. 5 Self-Improvement. I seek to harness the echoes of the world that flow through time and space. 6 Longevity. Time tears away cherished memories and ravishes our bodies. Stalling its march drives my actions. Bond d6 Bond d6 Bond 1 In the mists of the Starlight Sea are indistinct shapes, lost souls killed by technology. I must put their souls at rest. 2 Elemental confluxes fascinate me, and I investigate their energies to harness them for my designs. 3 I am determined to rediscover lost magics and use them to displace technology. 4 The silence of space is frightening. Filling it with laughter and love drives me. 5 Magic speaks to us in dreams. I help others understand their dreams and navigate the mysteries they reveal. 6 We stopped caring about our histories, so we are doomed to repeat them. I will not make that mistake. I will record history as best as I can. Flaw d6 Flaw 1 Technology revolts me so strongly that I can act irrationally when forced to utilize it. 2 I have become reliant upon drinking aether. If I go too long without, I become erratic and unreliable. 3 I am unable to resist ceaselessly lecturing people about the dangers of technology. 4 Unsatisfied with being overlooked, my mannerisms and speech are overly exaggerated. 5 Wraith dreams have left me unable to tell reality from fantasy, leading me to make strange leaps in logic. 6 I casually disregard minor problems until they become overwhelming.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 32048

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

