# Mageborn

**description**: Mageborn Requirement: You must be a bard, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard You manifested arcane magical abilities at a young age, and were taken into the guardianship of the Amethyst Academy. You learned to harness your magic at a secluded magical school. After you came of age and completed your apprenticeship, you became free to pursue your own interests, but you must respect the laws and customs that govern all those with spellcasting powers. Under the Edicts of Lumen, mages are disinherited of any noble titles, and cannot own land. Skill Proficiencies: Two of the following: Arcana, Deception, Investigation, Perception Languages: Draconic or Elven Equipment: A gnarled wand made of wood, a duster jacket, a satchel for material components and potions, an amulet or other trinket of importance to you Tool Proficiencies: Either calligraphers’ supplies or alchemists’ supplies Feature: Bookworm Once per day after you finish a long rest, you can spend one hour to create a spell scroll. You need only paper and ink to do so, and the level of the spell you can create equals one half your proficiency bonus (rounded down) or lower. The scroll you create must be a spell you know or have prepared. It crumbles to dust in 24 hours. Mageborn Quirk (1d8) 1 My eyes are two different colours. 2 Whenever I cast a spell, my voice echoes and an unknown wind seems to blow around me. 3 My eyes glow with octarine light when I am casting spells. 4 I hear voices and sounds when close to magical entities, as if the magic itself speaks to me. 5 I have full conversations with myself out loud that occasionally can get heated. 6 Magic floods my mind and makes it difficult to sleep without constant nightmares and visions. 7 I speak to beings from other planes of existence who manifest as simple creatures before me. 8 I have a birthmark in a unique shape that appears every day for 2 and a half hours, then vanishes. Personality Trait (1d8) 1 I idolize one of the archmages of the Academy and hope to prove myself to them in time. 2 Nothing will get between me and my goals. When people say something I care about is impossible, I prove them wrong. 3 I am confident in my powers, and do not fear the horrors of Drakkenheim, for I can bend reality. 4 I am constantly reading books. The more knowledge I can obtain, the more I can outwit friends and foes alike. 5 I am a mage for hire and am not afraid to use my magic to get my hands dirty. A lot of people will pay top coin for a skillset like mine. 6 I am a sucker for a good mystery and pride myself in my ability to solve them. 7 Everyone is always so serious - we all die in the end, might as well enjoy the ride. 8 I always push myself to be the best at whatever it is I set out to do. Ideal (1d6) 1 Respect. My powers are a blessing and a curse, and I work diligently to show people not to fear magic. (Good) 2 Knowledge . I left the Academy on good terms to work at one of the many historical institutes of the world, hoping that my love for books and history would be of use. (Any) 3 Love. I left the Academy due to love, and I plan to keep my promise to that love. (Good) 4 Forgiveness. I must undo the mistakes of my past by proving myself to those I care about most. (Good) 5 Power. Delerium is power, and I must learn all I can about its origins and properties if I am to harness that power. (Chaotic) 6 Independence. I stand alone from the Academy for a reason. I do not wish to be on their bad side, but I do not wish to be on their good side either. (Neutral) Bond (1d6) 1 It is my duty to protect the Amethyst Academy. 2 My life’s work in the study of delerium caused my expulsion. I must continue that research to prove its value. 3 The mysteries of my past and my power are tied to the meteor. I need answers. 4 My terrible mistake was covered up by my mentor in the Academy. I owe them my life. 5 My nightmares have guided me to Drakkenheim. I must investigate these visions. 6 I come from a long line of wizards, my exit from the Academy was highly upsetting to them and I need to earn my way back into their favour, even if it means risking my life in Drakkenheim. Flaw (1d6) 1 I walk straight into danger. What’s the worst that could happen? 2 I believe my plan is always far superior to everyone else’s. 3 I am distracted by possibilities of gaining knowledge or power, regardless of the cost or danger. 4 I overcomplicate most situations with small details and over analyzing simple things. 5 I get angry quickly, and cause more harm than good with my magic when I get mad. 6 I can’t get enough delerium. I want the power for myself. Variant Mageborn: Malfeasant Mage You were expelled from the Amethyst Academy for some trespass, real or imagined, or perhaps you were never taken in by them and learned magic on your own. Common folk are often mistrustful of spellcasters who do not wear the Amethyst Academy colours, so you may need to hide your identity and abilities, especially from the Amethyst Academy and the Knights of the Silver Order.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 21300

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Dungeons of Drakkenheim

