# Matsu Family - Lion Clan

**description**: The Matsu are the courageous, implacable heart of the Lion. As the largest family in the Empire, the Matsu fill the ranks of the vast Lion armies. Founded by Lady Matsu, one of the greatest of all samurai in the early Empire and one of the few to claim a victory over Akodo in single combat, they retain many matriarchal traditions in her honor, including several elite military units that are exclusively female. Due to their numbers, when members of other clans think of the Lion Clan, the Matsu are often the group that first come to mind. Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Sword maintenance kit. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Traveling clothes, wakizashi, sword maintenance kit, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Know the Past, Find the Future You were raised in the Lion Clan, the most famous and expansive military power in Rokugan, granting you the following benefits: You know history quite well, especially as it pertains to military actions, political shifts in power, and various challenges faced by the Emerald Empire over the centuries. You know the current military situation in Rokugan and the lands beyond. You can identify and know the proper purpose of all Rokugani battlefield weapons, even if you are not personally proficient in their use. You know about common military maneuvers and engagements, such as feigned retreats, flank attacks, raids, and sieges. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Lion Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Matsu Champion School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Matsu school of battle, make Strength and Constitution your highest ability scores, followed by Charisma. Begin in the bushi class, selecting the Vanguard archetype at 3rd level. Then switch to the duelist class for three levels, selecting the Deathdancer archetype if you want to be an overwhelming presence on the field or the Adept archetype if you want to specialize in dual wielding. Put the rest of your levels into bushi to make yourself as durable and potent as possible, selecting martial techniques that help you engage large groups of enemies.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

