# Media Investigator

**description**: You’ve made your career out of getting the latest scoop, piece of gossip, or finding just the right contact to get you hard evidence on a story. You may be doing it because you like it, or perhaps it’s the only thing you’re good at. Or maybe you’re looking for that really big story, the one that’ll either set you up for life or prove whatever you believed all along was actually true. Skill Proficiencies: Computers, Investigation Tool Proficiencies: Disguise Kit, Media Kit Equipment: Fancy clothing, Recording Unit, SIM Unit, 150 cubil. Feature: Media Contacts Information is the currency of your trade, and you have a network of resources and contacts that you use to find out something new and verify what you know. Whenever you need to find information or the latest rumors on a particular person, place, or event, you know who to talk to and may even get some bonus information not normally obtainable. Suggested Characteristics To a media investigator, there’s nothing more important than the scoop. Many investigators feel the weight and responsibility of delivering the truth, or at least their view of it, to the rest of the galaxy. This sometimes causes them to have a cynical view of people, as sometimes even the simplest of truths can be made hard to uncover. There are also unfortunately those who have fallen down the slope of peddling opinions over actual facts. d8 Personality Trait 1 I need to know everything about anyone I meet. 2 I run towards danger if it can get me a story. 3 Whenever I’m somewhere new, I try to dig up the best rumors from the locals. 4 I am very private about myself. I know the cost of putting your business out in the public eye. 5 I am not easily intimidated by anyone. 6 I like to be, or at least be with, the smartest person in the room. 7 I share my cynical point of view in most conversations. 8 I find that flattery often wins over insults when dealing with a confrontation. d6 Ideal 1 Business . Everyone can go about their business so long as it doesn’t affect me. (Neutral) 2 Noble Cause . Truth and justice are the foundations of a good community. (Good) 3 Professional . I take pride in my work and refuse to have it corrupted with dishonesty. (Lawful) 4 Manipulation . The only truth is the one which has the greatest influence. (Evil) 5 Freedom . Free speech and freedom of information surpasses any established regulation. (Chaotic) 6 Responsibility . It is my responsibility to keep all those within my circle of influence informed and educated. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I’m hiding a secret that could topple governments if I’m found out. 2 I lost someone I loved due to mysterious circumstances. I will not stop until I find the truth. 3 Everything I do is to honor an idol or icon in my profession who came before me. 4 I have a rival who will stop at nothing to ruin my credibility. 5 My friends and allies are the only things more important to me than the story. 6 My selfish actions have ruined the lives of many. Everything I do from now on is to redeem myself. d6 Flaw 1 I often assume that I know more about a situation than others. 2 I often speak to people as if they are children that need to be educated. 3 I have trouble determining the line that goes too far with people’s privacy. 4 I’m quick to assume people are lying to me. 5 I have no problem making money off of the misery of others. 6 I will do anything to protect my reputation. Anything.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

