# Menghes Ordu - Non-Rokugani

**description**: One of the largest ordus in residence belongs to the Menghes family under the patriarchal leadership of Menghes Daidu. Daidu is a lean, long, sour-faced man, and his wives, brother, sons, daughters, nephews, and grandchildren make up the majority of the ordu’s population. The Menghes family are excellent herders of sheep, and one of Daidu’s wives, Bortelun, is a renowned weaver of blankets, carpets, and other woolen goods. The Menghes family is also ambitious, hoping to secure high-ranking positions thanks to their alliance with the Moto family in Khanbulak or among the White Horde—or, at minimum, good marriages and enough wealth to start their own ordus for Daidu’s children. Daidu’s yurt is a large and impressive affair, its wool walls dyed a pale orange. A white horsehair banner flies from a pole near the tent’s entrance, marking the family as followers of the Lords of Death. A small shrine travels with the ordu, and the shrine includes an urn with a name: Orojin, Daidu’s eldest son. Orojin was killed in a skirmish twelve years ago, and Menghes Daidu holds the Calamac family responsible. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool, mounts. Weapon Proficiencies: Hunting bow. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Ujik, and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or traveling clothes, dagger, hunting bow and quiver with 20 willow-leaf arrows, any one artisan tool, and 5 gp. Suggested Feats: Battlefield Training, Fashionable, Seasoned Rider. Background Feature: Neutral Party You have certain advantages due to being an outsider who is not implicated in local politics, such as: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your homeland. You know its forms of government, religions, and other organizations, as well as the various factions and individuals of note that strive to control these groups. You know the lay of the land where you grew up extremely well and know many people in that region. You know the trade that you grew up around well, even if you do not practice it yourself. Because you are from outside of Rokugan, members of Rokugani courts and other political organizations view you as being neutral to their conflicts. They do not assume that you favor a particular side, and might go to extra lengths to sway you to theirs if they think you are an asset who might help them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

