# Mercenary

**description**: Having participated in battles for coin as a sell-sword, you're no stranger to risking your safety and even life for just a chance at acquiring wealth. But now, as an adventurer, you look forward to the chance of even greater prizes. Your experience as a freelancing warrior means you have familiarized yourself with the ways of mercenary life, and you likely have haunting reminders and scars from your time out on the field. You might have served with a large outfit, such as the Bloodaxes from Sundabar in the Forgotten Realms or the Golden Blade Mercenary Company in the world of Igimas. You might also have belonged to a smaller company, or even several of them. However, you're looking for something new. Greater treasures and the freedom to choose your own tasks are on the table now. Whatever your reason for leaving behind the life of a soldier of fortune, your expertise makes you an asset in combat, and you have a new way of following that path now. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics and choose one from Persuasion or Intimidation Tool Proficiencies: Land Vehicles or one type of artisan's tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A dark cloak, a badge with the sigil of the mercenary company you worked with, any simple weapon, a set of dice or deck of playing cards, Thieves' tools, a set of Traveler's clothes and a pouch containing 6 gp Feature: Mercenary Life You know the life of a merc as only someone who has lived through it can. You are able to identify mercenary companies by their sigils and symbols, and you have a little knowledge about most of them, including the public identities and the reputation of the members of the leadership, as well as the latest work they have partaken in that is public knowledge. You can find a place with the crowds at the taverns and other establishments where mercenaries spend their time, as long as you speak the language. You can find mercenary work between adventures with sufficient pay to maintain a comfortable lifestyle. Suggested Characteristics You are a mercenary who hunted down your employer's targets for coin. Were you happy in this life? What made you leave it behind to become an adventurer? Did you leave it at all? d8 Personality Trait 1 I hold myself to a strict personal code. 2 All of my personal possessions are stashed away in places only I know of. 3 I enjoy showing off my skills. What better way to get my name out there after all? 4 No finger is lifted, nor blade unsheathed unless an offer of wealth is made. 5 To me the sound of steel clashing is just as pleasing as that of a fat jingling coin pouch. 6 I'm always positive and helpful, as long as I am properly compensated. 7 I would do whatever is necessary to not be disarmed or unable to cast magic. The moment those tools are out of my reach I'm nothing but prey. 8 Training is a necessity. Sharpening one's skills allows one to be ready even in a moment of respite or weakness. d6 Ideal 1 Glory Seeker. My deeds will be known across the land, sooner rather than later. (Any) 2 Golden Word. I never break my promises. Never. (Lawful) 3 Opportunistic. Wherever there's chaos, there's work to be had. (Chaotic) 4 Good for Sale. I will only ever take jobs to help others, never putting them down. (Good) 5 No charity. If there's no money involved, it is not worth fighting for. (Neutral) 6 Victory or Death. In this line of work, the strong live and the weak starve. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I turned to this life to uplift my family from extreme poverty. They need me and I will help them. 2 I fight so that one day I can impress a person I hope to court one day. 3 A great hero I admire started out as a mercenary. I hope to be just like them. 4 My companions are part of my family. A slight on them, bodily or otherwise, is a slight on me. 5 I seek to keep a grand secret I found out while on the job. You better forget whatever you heard. 6 I'm always respectful...as long as the employer keeps the gold flowing and doesn't forget who's the one with the killing instrument in the room. d6 Flaw 1 Gold is my best friend. Yes, even more than all of you. 2 No matter how good I am at this line of work, I never enjoyed hurting others. 3 My life is swamped by debts of my past. I need to pay them and this work barely keeps up with them. 4 I never fail a mission, no matter what unsavory methods I have to resort to. 5 If it meant staying alive, I would use a civilian as a meat shield. 6 A powerful figure seeks to remove my head from my body. So I'll get theirs first.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

