# Mharoti Emissary

**description**: You are an agent of the Dragon Empire abroad in the nations of Midgard. You might be traveling as a legitimate ambassador, or without displaying your allegiance. Wherever you go, you present a “true” version of history regarding the Mharoti empire and the kingdom you happen to be in. The details of this tale encourage sympathy toward the empire and dissent toward the local government. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, History Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A text of “accurate” history, propaganda pamphlets, a set of fine clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Underground Network You have access to a network of safe houses set up by other Mharoti agents throughout Midgard. You can recognize a safe house by key phrases or symbols, and you know the password to gain entry. All major cities and most settlements of any significant size have at least one such safe house. Local agents and Mharoti sympathizers swayed by propaganda can have any number of useful rumors and tips. Suggested Characteristics Mharoti emissaries are split into two main groups: overt and subtle. Overt emissaries hide in plain sight and are often in some official guise, such as a merchant or diplomat. Subtle emissaries insinuate themselves into the local populace without attracting attention. In either case they are delicate in their approach, lest the local authorities discover them too quickly. d8 Personality Trait 1 I can talk my way out of anything. 2 I always respect local customs and work hard not to buck them. 3 I never pass an opportunity to experience local customs. 4 I work some element of my message into every interaction. 5 I try to connect with the people I’m dealing with. 6 I exhibit some minor quirks of a type of great dragon. 7 I say just enough to get people interested, and then let them come to me. 8 I always have an escape route planned. d6 Ideal 1 Loyalty. Unity provides strength. (Any) 2 Subversion. Societal structures are stifling, and must be destroyed so people can thrive. (Chaotic) 3 Fairness. People deserve the opportunity to choose the course of their lives. (Neutral) 4 Conquest. I will overthrow those too weak to stand on their own. (Evil) 5 Security. Strong government and structure provides safety. (Lawful) 6 Improvement. I work to elevate the lot of others. (Good) d6 Bond 1 The Empire annexed my home and my life changed for the better. I’ll bring the same fortune to others. 2 I live to serve my homeland. 3 I’ll bring down the nation that harbors my enemies. 4 I came to know the glory of the Empire only after fighting against it, and now I’m seeking to make up for that. 5 I am actually a double-agent, working against the Empire in secret. 6 I owe my life to the person who recruited me. d6 Flaw 1 I resent the slightest scrutiny into my motives or origin. 2 I secretly hate the Empire and all it stands for, but I can’t let it show or I’ll be killed, or worse. 3 I set my sights high and push hard and fast to achieve my lofty goals. 4 I always leave some common detail behind, a calling card, even when my work is secret. 5 I dismiss other ideologies because mine is obviously superior. 6 I hate people who seem more secure or free than I feel.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

