# Miner

**description**: You grew up in the Free Cantons of the Ironcrags, the kobold city of Lillefor, or the human mining communities of the Seven Cities. You learned how to dig deep beneath the surface of Midgard in search of iron, copper, silver, gold and rarer metals, or valuable minerals and gemstones. Whether you used clever technological innovations and magic to get at these prized ores and precious stones, or relied on your brute strength and dogged determination, it was an exciting and dangerous life. Hazards such as flooding, pockets of flammable and poisonous gas, cave-ins and red-hot magma were commonplace, and you sometimes needed to defend yourself against the hostile creatures of the realms below as you worked. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Nature Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A miner’s pick, a shovel, a lamp, a piece of chalk, a caged canary, a set of common clothes, and a gold nugget or uncut gemstone worth 25 gp Feature: Underground Adept Your experience in the mines has taught you how to survive in underground environments. You are accustomed to dim light and can make Wisdom (Perception) checks without disadvantage in shadowy areas. You also have a good memory for the twists and turns of underground tunnels and passages, allowing you to retrace your steps unerringly through tunnels you’ve traversed before and to estimate how deep below ground you are. Suggested Characteristics Miners come from tight-knit communities, so clan, family, and tradition are important to them. They value industriousness and persistence and have little time for feckless layabouts. Some are still driven by the pursuit of material wealth; others turn their backs on gold and greed. d8 Personality Trait 1 I love the rhythm of the picks chipping away at the rock face. 2 Being a miner is tough. Digging through solid rock to find gold isn’t a job for wimps. 3 I left my clanhold because it was time to see the world. 4 The lust for gold drove my father mad. I warn everyone I meet of its danger. 5 I am happiest wandering alone in dark places below the ground. 6 It’s best to stick to the old ways and traditions that our tribal elders taught us. 7 I can tell you stories of things living beneath the earth that will make your hair stand on end. 8 I take pride in my work. Mining has taught me not to cut corners. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom. I served ten years under the mountain before I saw the sun. No one should have to suffer as I did. (Chaotic) 2 Dedication. Hard work builds character. (Neutral) 3 Community. It’s our responsibility to keep our families and friends safe from the dark creatures of the depths. (Lawful.) 4 Beauty. Gold and jewels are only worth seeking if they can be turned into wondrous works of art. (Any) 5 Greed. I won’t stop until I’ve plundered ten times my weight in gold. (Evil) 6 Generosity. We should all share our wealth with those less fortunate than ourselves. (Good) d6 Bond 1 My canton is my home and hearth. 2 When my father died, my mother gave me his miner’s lamp. I keep it polished and bright, just like he did, in his memory. 3 I am a sworn and loyal member of the Fraternal Order of the Illuminated Brothers. 4 A rival miner cheated me out of my lucky strike and I lost out on a fortune. One day I’ll get my revenge. 5 My sister saved me from a gas explosion. I owe her my life. 6 I’m adventuring to provide for my family. Their mine is exhausted. d6 Flaw 1 Wide open spaces make me uncomfortable. 2 The sight of gold can send me wild with excitement and lust. 3 I ran from a cave-in and abandoned my comrades to their fate. 4 There are tentacled things in the dark that haunt my dreams. Sometimes I wake up screaming. 5 I stole gemstones from the family mine and gambled them away. 6 When I see someone idling, I give them a piece of my mind.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

