# Mirumoto Family - Dragon Clan

**description**: The Mirumoto family is renowned for their founder’s unique two-sword style, called “Two Heavens,” but they train their scions to be more than just bushi and duelists. The Mirumoto family also oversees the management and mundane duties of the Dragon Clan, allowing the ascetics of the Togashi Order to pursue their paths on the way to Enlightenment. Living in a harsh, mountainous region with a sparse population, Mirumoto samurai tend to be practical and down-to-earth. They are less inclined to draw distinction between the work of samurai and commoners, and it is not uncommon to see Mirumoto samurai stepping in to help with a barley harvest or mending broken fences in an outlying hamlet after a harsh winter. As the largest family of their clan, the Mirumoto are the samurai whom most think of when they think of the Dragon Clan, and their family often handles jobs that require them to leave Dragon lands. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or gaming set of your choice. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Traveling clothes, wakizashi, any one artisan tool or gaming set of your choice, and 8 gp. Background Feature: Life in the Mountains You have lived in the rugged mountains of Dragon lands for much of your life and know the environment and culture well, granting you the following benefits: You know who within your clan has been awarded membership into the Inner Circle of Togashi, although you would not be privy to the secrets of the Inner Circle unless you are also a member. You know more about monastic life and traditions than most other clans, having likely interacted with the Togashi Order throughout your life. Due to the rugged nature of your homeland, you know how to properly prepare mountain flora and wildlife for human consumption. You have a working understanding of many physical phenomena of the natural world and the beauty and dangers present in wild lands. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Dragon Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Mirumoto Adept School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Mirumoto Two Heavens school of swordmastery, make Dexterity and Intelligence your highest ability scores, with Constitution as your next priority. Begin in the duelist class, selecting the Adept archetype at 3rd level. Focus on martial techniques that let you create an unpredictable, flexible fighting style. Put the rest of your levels into duelist if you want to focus on one-on-one battles, or consider taking three levels of bushi to unlock the Vanguard archetype’s ability to flexibly wield different weapons.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

