# Miya Family - Imperial Court

**description**: Legend has it that when the War against Fu Leng was finally won, it was the original Miya who brought the news of the victory to the first Hantei, who lay dying. The Emperor commanded Miya to continue spreading the news of the war’s end across the Empire. As he did so, he and his retainers assisted the war-ravaged Empire in rebuilding, leaving a sense of hope and purpose in their wake. When he returned to the Imperial City a hero, the wily Otomo saw an opportunity. He convinced the new Emperor, Hantei Genji, to allow Miya—still Otomo’s loyal follower—to found his own family, and a new Imperial family was born. Today, the Miya still serve as the Emperor’s heralds, ambassadors of goodwill, and cartographers, traveling across the Empire in the course of their service. Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, any one other artisan tool. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak, sign, read, and write Courtly Rokugani, an archaic version of the language used in many old texts and in some ceremonies. Equipment: Traveling clothes, wakizashi, calligraphy set, any one other artisan tool, and 12 gp. Background Feature: Heights of Power You grew up in the Imperial Court, a place both perilous for its intrigues and oddly separated from the dangers of the rest of the world, granting you the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the politics within the Imperial Capital. You can name Imperial family heads, ranking bureaucrats and other leaders, and you know their respective positions and allegiances. You know Imperial history quite well, particularly as it pertains to the deeds of the Emperor and the Imperial families. You know proper etiquette and protocol in the Imperial Capital. You know certain secrets that have been elided from the official histories of Rokugan. Suggested Feats Life in the Imperial Court requires developing certain talents, especially as relates the art of persuasion, diplomacy, and intrigue. If making an Imperial Court character, the following feats could be good thematic choices: Fashionable, Watchful Ancestors, and Celestial Authority.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

