# Monster

**description**: Your actions are depraved, and your current crimes extend beyond callous greed or mischief. You have invented ways to harm others that shock the most jaded cutthroats and sell swords. You take perverse pleasure in staying one step ahead of those who would punish you for your heinous acts. All fear you, even the evil hearted. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Intimidation Languages: Two languages of your choice Equipment: 1 vial of Antitoxin, 1 vial of Poison (Basic), 1 flask of Oil, tinderbox, and a belt pouch containing 15 gp Are Monsters born or bred? Is evil an unalterable trait or a learned behavior? Every Monster began as someone – or something – else. Choose the nature of your monstrous origin, or roll on the table below. D6 Origin 1 Child of Darkness . I was raised by vile cultists, vicious thieves, or another villain. 2 Survivor. I alone survived the destruction of my home and family. Brutality was the only way to escape. 3 Child of Cruelty. I was raised by cruel parents without decency or mercy. I learned their lessons well. 4 The Cold-Hearted. At an early age I studied my victims with fascination. Small fires, small animal deaths, and small steps towards infamy. I never felt concern or empathy for others. 5 The Opportunist. At every stage of my life, I learned when or how to use cruelty, pain, or deceit to achieve my goals at any cost. 6 The Nightmare. No one knows why you became the Monster. You are the terror that cannot be reasoned with, cannot be sated, and devastate everything around you. Monstrous Deeds Some monsters murder. Some steal from the vulnerable. Others destroy places of sanctity or beauty. Driven by pure chaotic compulsion, or raw emotions such as anger, fear, or revenge. Choose the nature of your monstrous crimes, or roll on the table below. D8 Deeds 1 Absentee Parent 2 Arsonist 3 Cultist 4 Kidnapper 5 Murderer 6 Torturer 7 Trophy Collector 8 Violent Drunk Feature: The Dark Place You are skilled at finding refuge in a location that locals fear to tread. A house thought haunted, a mine thought abandoned, a tower thought crumbling. You can retreat to these places for a short time, but have limited access to food, water, or supplies. It is a respite, not a reprieve. Suggested Characteristics A Monster’s destructive acts are so depraved that no other word describes them. A Monster can be brutish and cruel, lacking empathy. D8 Personality Trait 1 I leer at people in a disturbing manner 2 I am unnervingly quiet, my silence disturbs others 3 I am gregarious and outgoing, causing others to let their guard down 4 I am a keen observer, studying others to find their weaknesses 5 I make small, odd noises to disrupt the conversations of others 6 If I want it, I take it 7 If others cherish it, I seek to destroy it 8 I do not fear consequences for my actions D6 Ideal 1 Principle. I hurt only those who can fight back. (Lawful) 2 Anarchy. Let it all burn, we are all wicked. (Chaotic) 3 Void. Life and death are toys of the Gods, nothing matters. (Neutral) 4 Resolution. I cannot undo my past; I can only prevent others from repeating my mistakes.(Good) 5 Revenge. As I was harmed, so will I harm. (Evil) 6 Strength. This is the only way, no one can stop me. (Any) D6 Bond 1 I swore an oath to follow my deity’s edicts to the very end. 2 I covet something so strongly, I will stop at nothing to have it. 3 All I love was lost, they will lose all they love. 4 There are old folk stories of terrible past deeds, my legacy will replace those tales. 5 I will never be forgiven, so every day I must seek forgiveness. 6 Someone I once loved awaits my return, I must earn their trust. D6 Flaw 1 I risk everything in pursuit of my passions 2 I leave behind evidence of my crimes 3 I experience overwhelming emotional breakdowns 4 I experience debilitating addiction 5 I crave notoriety 6 I am actively hunted for my crimes

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

