# Monster Hunter

**description**: The world is a dangerous place. Monsters great and small lurk in the dark places: in caves, in castles, maybe in your attic right this very moment. While others hunt deer, you hunt monsters, not for food, not for sport, but for survival. Without people like you, the world would soon be overrun by dragons, demons, even the dead don't stay quiet. You have spent years studying these creatures, how they fight, where they nest, and most importantly, how you can kill them. There's money to be made by people willing to take a stand against these monsters, but perhaps you fight for more personal reasons. Are you part of a guild, or clan, or secret society? Do you work alone? Your style and methods may change based on your class, but at your heart, you are someone who takes the fight to the monsters that others would rather believe are only stories. You, of course, know better. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, and Nature or Survival Tool Proficiencies: Herbalism Kit Languages: Choose two from Abyssal, Deep Speech, Draconic, Giant, Infernal, Sylvan, Undercommon. Equipment: Three charms or trinkets, a trophy from a slain monster, a flask of holy water, a set of common clothes and a pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Lore Master You always know the best place to gather information on monsters and monster hunting techniques. Whether secret meeting places for others like you, shamans who owe you favours, or hidden libraries known only to a few, you can always gain insights into local monsters' tactics, lairs, and lore. Suggested Characteristics Monster hunters face the worst of what the world has to offer. While not all of them will be saints, all of them put their life on the line to protect others. Some might view themselves as the only thing standing between civilization and ruin, others might view their work as the will of the gods. All of them will have nightmares. d8 Personality Trait 1 I always tell stories of monsters I have faced, even when no one asked. 2 I'm slow to adopt new ideas or technology. The old ways are always the best. 3 I am never afraid. Or at least, I'll never admit it. 4 While I know how to deal with monsters, people are too complicated for me. 5 I long to save up enough money and retire from this life. 6 I always think I know the best strategy to deal with a monster, even one I've never faced. 7 I have learned to live with what I've seen, but I would not wish this life upon anyone else. 8 Every night before going to sleep, I must pray, splash holy water around, and burn sacred herbs. Otherwise I'll get eaten. d6 Ideal 1 Religion. The gods challenge us, protect us, and will reward us for our fight against evil. (Law) 2 Humanity. I fight so people don't have to know what's really out there in the dark. (Good) 3 Survival. The monsters must be defeated. At any cost. Otherwise we all die. (Chaotic) 4 Knowledge. I hunt to study the monsters of the land. I want to learn more about them. (Any) 5 Coin. I do what I do because the money's good. If you can't pay, I don't slay. (Neutral) 6 Vanity. I hunt monsters to show I'm the greatest warrior alive. (Any) d6 Bond 1 A witch brought me back to life after a failed hunt. I bring her the spoils from my quarry: teeth, eyes, skin, whatever she asks for. 2 There are hunters like me all over the world. All of them are welcome at my camp, and to share their stories. 3 I took up the hunt to protect my people. 4 I hunt because it is what my father did, and his father before him. 5 The best way to stay alive is to have someone watch your back. I'll never leave anyone behind. 6 A wise old warrior taught me the secrets of the hunt. I strive to live up to their example. d6 Flaw 1 There is one kind of monster I cannot face. I fought it once, and it still terrifies me to this day. 2 I spend all my gold on drink, food, and fun, then have to head out hunting again. 3 My years of study and hunting have made me overconfident, I face any challenge, no matter how dangerous. 4 My fight against evil is the only one that matters. The petty laws of men are of no concern to me. 5 My long years in the wilds have made me forget my manners. 6 I am paranoid, and see monsters everywhere I look.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

