# Moto Family - Unicorn Clan

**description**: The Moto are descended from the Ujik, the nomadic peoples of the Plains of Wind and Stone west of Rokugan, who drive their herds across the steppe. Indeed, the Moto family are still very much politically involved with many of the Ujik social units called ordus , which range in size from single families to vast, moving cities. Within the Unicorn Clan, the Moto train some of the finest heavy cavalry units and form much of the backbone of the Unicorn Clan’s military might. Whether in Rokugan or in distant lands where the Unicorn have journeyed, the Moto are often the first to the fray, their fast steeds and skilled riders breaking enemy lines then peeling away with the swiftness of a sandstorm. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or musical instrument, mounts. Weapon Proficiencies: Curved saber. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and Ujik. Equipment: Traveling clothes, curved saber, dagger, any one artisan tool or musical instrument, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Child of the Five Winds You were raised in the Unicorn Clan, granting you the Clan of Shinjo’s unique perspective on the world. You gain the following benefits: You have an idea of politics outside the borders of Rokugan, which types of governments rule foreign lands, major conflicts between other countries, and what type of foreign imports make their way into Rokugan. You know many basic facts of life about foreign lands, particularly the Burning Sands, the Ivory Kingdoms, and beyond from stories your family has passed down of your ancestors who traveled to those lands. You know at least some foreign words from numerous languages, such as Nehiri, Ivindi, Myantu, and Portuga. You are not fully conversant in these languages unless you select them as known languages, but you can often discern a bit of meaning from familiar words. You know the basics of mounted combat tactics, along with various other aspects of the proper handling and care of horses. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Unicorn Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Moto Ranger School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Moto tradition of cavalry, make Dexterity and Constitution your highest ability scores. Begin in the bushi class, selecting the Vanguard archetype at 3rd level. Consider selecting the Graceful Combatant feat to maximize your weapon options, or the Animal Companion feat for a bond with a loyal steed. Take three levels of shinobi to unlock the Saboteur archetype, granting you access to traps and emphasizing your skills as a hunter. Then put your remaining levels into bushi.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

