# Mountain's Witness

**description**: Dontrona Mountain, Sable Mountain, Demon Mountain; call it what you will, this spire of mystery and infernal plots looms large on both the horizon and in the dreams of Rothenians. You know more than most of this place, for you have made a bargain with its masters. Once a dangerous wasteland occupied by long extinct people, the mountain at the southern edge of the Wormwood now hosts a scheming malevolence. The sorcerer known as the Master is a legendary figure on the plains. His children, born from unions both unholy and unspoken, spread themselves across Midgard. They work in favor of their father, that demon-binder and self-proclaimed descendent of Vael Turog. What machinations do his children fuel? The slate and stone of the mountain know; perhaps you do, too. You have made a bargain with agents of the mountain. How did this bargain come to be? Did you seek the servants of the Master yourself in a bid for power or knowledge? Did they find you one night as you camped near the road, tempting you with promises and gold? Do you wish an audience with the Master? What did they ask you to burn in the fel-flames to seal the agreement? Their devilish faces grinned luridly and coaxed you, here is the fire, come make your mark. What must you do, having breathed the sulphuric smoke of the hells? You walk the plains unmarked by your agreement. Others see you for what you appear to be: adventurer, scholar, devout, bandit, merchant. But the children of the Master and their servants know you by another name. They call you a witness. One day, you hope they call you knyaz, a lord of the infernal spire. Today, however, you have a missive to send. No detail is inconsequential. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Persuasion Languages: Infernal Equipment: varies (see the Bargain feature) Feature: Bargain You have made a contract with one of the demonic children of the Master. They may see and hear through you as though you were a familiar. This observation comes and goes depending on the patron. You are aware of when your actions are being monitored, but others are not. Your patron's observation of your life is magical and can be detected by spells such as detect magic while it’s occurring. The observation only functions on the Material Plane. As a reward for being a witness, you are paid 25 gp per month for each level of experience you’ve gained. You start your adventuring career with either: A sustained comfortable lifestyle, a furnished home, two sets of noble's clothes, and 50 gp stored in a chest, or A riding horse with saddle, an explorer's pack, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a belt pouch containing 25 gp. Suggested Characteristics Those who strike bargains with agents of the Master don’t consider themselves reckless; they see themselves only as ambitious. If they take great chances, it’s only to win great rewards in pursuit of that ambition—and in service to the Master. d6 Personality Traits 1 I am confident and content. 2 The bargain has made me paranoid. 3 I love to see new things and meet new people. 4 I have no problem lying to others. 5 I love spending money. 6 I show my teeth when I smile. d6 Ideal 1 Power. All that matters is growing your influence. (Evil) 2 Results. If in the end your task is accomplished, why be concerned with your method. (Chaotic) 3 Service. I perform important work for those above me. This service is its own reward. (Lawful) 4 Wealth. Money moves mountains. (any) 5 Bridge. I have sacrificed my privacy so that dark powers might be transformed by seeing beauty and love. (Good) 6 Knowledge. Knowledge is the only true resource; I must give it to receive it. (any) d6 Bond 1 I will do my time, then reap my reward. 2 This cursed bargain must be revoked by any means necessary. 3 I will see the world, meet with queens, slay my enemies, and be judged worthy of a place on the mountain. 4 I must slay the creature I made this bargain with. 5 Demon Mountain will fall, and my bargain is a necessary price to get close to its rulers. 6 I will deceive another creature into replacing me in this bargain. d6 Flaw 1 When my patron watches through me, I grow bitter and cruel. 2 I cannot rest properly for a day after being an active witness. 3 Visions of the Eleven Hells appear before me at inopportune times. 4 If I let someone too close, they will discover my secret. 5 I am terrible with money. 6 I seek greater and greater danger to impress my patron.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

