# Muse

**description**: A muse is someone who inspires great works of art, epic poems, or daring acts of bravery. They are loved and celebrated wherever they go, and have legions of adoring fans, artists, and suitors. Many muses are artists in their own right, and travel the world to inspire and be inspired by others. Often beautiful, always brilliant, muses might turn to a life of adventure to escape the confines of city life, experience daring adventure, or just to get some battle scars. A muse might be considered blessed by the gods, or cursed with a great and terrible beauty that marks you as different to everyone around you. Do you enjoy your position of influence? Or do you find it isolating, and long for a normal life? Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion and Performance Tool Proficiencies: Choose from a Disguise Kit, Calligrapher's Tools, Painter's Tools, or Potter's Tools Languages: Choose one from Celestial or Sylvan Equipment: A set of fine clothes, a small portrait of you, a wood carving of you, an abstract painting depicting your personality, a collection of poems you wrote or inspired, and 5 gp. Feature: Font of Inspiration Your mere presence helps the act of creation. You can inspire artisans, bards, and anyone else you meet to create art, or create art yourself without traditional tools or materials. You know artists or patrons who can provide your party with shelter and aid you with information on local people of interest, rumors, and gossip. Suggested Characteristics Muses are often embroiled in high society, and as such might utilize charm in one circle, guile in another, and effortless grace whoever they're with. They can inspire people to be their best selves, or ruin lives with a glance. A muse can be an artist, politician, intermediary, or spy, and may be all of these and more. You might be tired of being fawned over, and long to break away from what is expected of you. But whatever you do and wherever you do it, you do it with style. d8 Personality Trait 1 I'm a great lover and supporter of the arts. 2 I pretend to be against violence, but secretly I love a good fight. 3 I'm generous with my time, energy, and money. 4 I'm a scholar, philosopher, and historian, and strive to learn all I can. 5 I'm always working on a new project, yet I never seem to finish anything. 6 I try to inspire everyone around me to be the best they can be. 7 While I may entertain dozens of people in a day, I long for solitude. 8 I flirt with everyone I meet. d6 Ideal 1 Duty. I live to create and inspire. I will never ignore my calling from the gods. (Law) 2 Risk. You can't make great art without taking risks. (Chaotic) 3 Arrogance. I am beauty incarnate. I deserve to be worshipped. (Evil) 4 History. There have been many muses throughout history. I must play my part. (Neutral) 5 Beauty. Everything is beautiful. Everything should be celebrated. (Any) 6 Creation. All art has value, and I will inspire and encourage all who I meet to create something special. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I inspire art wherever I go, so it is my duty to travel across the land. 2 Long ago, I made a deal for my beauty and good fortune. I must honor the terms of that bargain. 3 Despite all my admirers, there's only one person for me. 4 I consider myself blessed by the gods, and give thanks to them each day. 5 I'm on a quest to create the world's most epic poem. 6 Everyone's an artist, and all artists are my friends. d6 Flaw 1 I believe I'm the most attractive, interesting, and wonderful person in the world. I can't handle it when someone disagrees. 2 If the art I inspire isn't up to my standards, I take it as a personal insult. 3 I never pay full-price for drinks, lodging, or gear. There's always someone I can charm for a discount. 4 Secretly, I know nothing about art. As long as I nod and smile, I don't need to. 5 I love it when people fight over me, and actively encourage it. 6 I'm painfully insecure, and need to be constantly validated by others. 

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

