# Mystic of Baba Yaga

**description**: “…I met a man upon the road, (a wanderin’ was I wonderin’) He said he bore a heavy load, I saw no pack upon his back, He said look close inside this sack, I saw an egg with two clawed toes! (a reelin’ now a reelin’) He said, SHE COMES FOR ME AND WHAT I STOLES! I swore I’d never say a thing (a fearin’ now a fearin’) Now I got no tongue for which to sing (she found me, aye she found me)…” -Excerpt from a Kharivian Jig (author unknown) The buzz of bees drunk on pollen, the cracks left by footsteps on a frozen puddle, the whispering of pines on windless nights: the signs of Grandmother are everywhere. You see them, you see them all. Baba Yaga, as changing as the Sands of Sorrows, as steady as the placement of the stars. Grandmother she is called, though she has only daughters. The legends of this powerful witch are known far beyond the Rothenian Plain. You carry the stories of her in your heart, memorized and trotted out too often in conversation. You have been called odd, ill-fated, and worse, but you take comfort in your surety that she is watching you. You have spent time in study of her. What was it that drew you to her? Did you have a vision while riding to Bjornshafen? Did you hear a raspy voice inside Kariv singing that only you could hear? The fog condensed on the window from the breath of tavern-goers in Vidim; did it show you the shape of your future? Magic has always drawn you. The ley lines call to you, ask for you. You see the cairns built upon the Rothenian Plain, where the ley lines cross and knot. You know it is perilous to invoke her and deadly to seek her company, but there, just now, you saw the way the sparrow took flight. Its flapping was portentous. She watches, she knows, she is here. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Insight Language Proficiencies: Two of your choice Equipment: A staff with an old lantern affixed to it, an herbalism kit, a set of traveler’s clothes, a belt pouch with 10 gp. Feature: Grandmother's Touch Your obsession with Grandmother Yaga has, for better or worse, drawn her attention to you. You may spend a day locating and interpreting the signs of the great witch (counts as downtime). After doing so, you may choose one of the following: Locate Veela: The location of the nearest Veela appears to you in a vision. Baleful Eye: One of your eyes becomes yellow and milky for a day. The eye allows you to see into the souls of nearby creatures and detect any lies they tell. Good-hearted folk who see the clouded eye treat you with suspicion or outright hostility. Sustained by Dust: Your food and water requirement for the next day are met by eating one pound of any organic matter. Suggested Characteristics Mystics of Baba Yaga are never free of her whispering in their minds. Even when they can’t hear the voice, when its faint gibbering is drowned out by groans of pain or cries of terror—even then, they know the whispers are still there. d6 Personality Traits 1 Do not fret or be sullen, all signs point to success. 2 I enjoy knocking people off their high places. 3 My mood shifts with the wind. 4 I dance with abandon when in gravest danger. 5 Laughter is its own spell. 6 My wrath is unwavering and cruel; my enemies will fear me. d6 Ideal 1 Enlightenment. The truth of the world is an unending series of silken veils which I must pull back. (any) 2 Her Bidding. I believe my actions are directed by Grandmother, so they are infallible and right. (Lawful) 3 Madness. Erratic behavior and esoteric pronouncements destabilize the convictions of others, allowing their minds to be free. (Chaotic) 4 Euphoria. The state of mind provided by this special tea is all I need to see the truth. (any) 5 Harbinger: Doom. The end comes soon, and Grandmother works to hasten it. Nothing matters but impressing her. (Evil) 6 Harbinger: Freedom. By unifying her magic and the will of the gods, we will all know freedom from tyranny. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I will meet Baba Yaga one day, and she will grant me a boon as payment for my affection and hard work. 2 The ley lines of Midgard will one day be mine to control. 3 I will find a magical artifact that grants me access to Grandmother's hut. 4 I must take the mystery and magic of Grandmother beyond these plains, working on her behalf across this world. 5 I will wed a Veela; our child shall bring the end of things. 6 Baba Yaga and I will rule Midgard together. d6 Flaw 1 My belief in signs and portents sometimes leads me astray. 2 My behavior is often erratic and off-putting to others. 3 I am haunted by nightmares of Grandmother and sometimes cannot sleep. 4 Having been rejected as eccentric, I am slow to trust and warm to others. 5 Butterflies and moths terrify me to the point of paralysis. 6 I am mad.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

