# Newly Risen Noble

**description**: Note: This variant modifies the Noble background from the Player's Handbook . When Is a Noble Not a Noble? Just as you can be a noble without the noble background, you can also take the noble background or its Position of Privilege feature even if your character isn't part of the nobility. This is an especially good option for wealthy or influential members of dragonmarked houses. As a dragonmarked “noble,” you're either close to house leadership or part of an especially wealthy or powerful branch of the family—and people know it. You’re treated as an equal by nobles, you can request an audience with local authorities, and common folk are generally impressed by you. Gaining Privilege … Just as adventurers can become soldiers or criminals during a campaign, it’s possible for them to be raised to the nobility. The traditions associated with this are described in later sections, but what’s the practical impact of this elevation? Does a new noble gain the benefits of Position of Privilege? What are their duties and responsibilities? An adventurer could gain a noble title as a reward for service, or in some nations, a soldier could win their title through battle. This might be a substantive title—one that grants land and subjects, which can be passed down to heirs—or simply a courtesy that doesn’t carry lands or duties. Being granted a knighthood may not confer the benefits of Position of Privilege, but it also probably won’t prevent you from further adventuring. On the other hand, becoming a Lhazaar prince might grant that privilege, but it also complicates your adventuring life significantly! You’ll either need to manage your principality or employ people to do it for you (the Valenar method) and hope they do a good job. When you grant player characters substantive titles as part of a campaign you’re DMing, you may wish to make the management and defense of their domain an integral part of the campaign moving forward. On the other hand, if Boranel grants someone the title of Shield of the East, it’s a symbolic courtesy that carries significant weight with Brelish nobles (as it reflects the favor of the king), but it bestows no actual responsibilities and doesn’t have the impact of Position of Privilege in other nations. The “Variant Noble: Newly Risen” sidebar presents a background variant you might select if your character’s meteoric rise draws attention from people who hope to benefit from your newfound influence. Alternatively, a DM might consider granting the Rising Star feature to a character who rises to the nobility during a campaign. Variant Noble: Newly Risen Your family has risen to the aristocracy very recently. Service to the crown, a heroic deed, or an extraordinarily generous donation may have contributed to your success. Though older and more entrenched noble families meet their obligations toward you, they may still look on you with disdain. Meanwhile, there is no shortage of other folks looking to ride your coattails to a new and better life. Feature: Rising Star Your name is known among monied individuals in your home country. You generally enjoy the utmost respect of non-aristocratic upper and middle classes. You can expect reasonable accommodations and inside information from such people in return for a simple non-monetary favor, such as passing their name or details of their business along to another noble.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Keith Baker Presents

**book**: Chronicles of Eberron

