# Nomad

**description**: You are a natural traveler, having moved around from place to place your whole life. The only place you’ve ever felt like you belonged is with your tribe itself, but you have no real attachment to a home of any kind. Your family is the only stability that you’ve ever known. Whether you migrated due to necessity, because you were driven from your home, or to find new customers for your wares, being a nomad has both given you a unique way of life and insecurity issues all at once. Still, you feel a deep connection to the traditions of your tribe and keep to your tribal rituals even when you are not with them. Skill Proficiencies : Nature, Survival Tool Proficiencies : Choose one instrument or artisan’s tools Languages : One exotic language of your choice Equipment : A set of tribal clothes, a waterskin, an explorer’s pack, a piece of jewelry from your tribe, and a pouch containing 5 gp. Feature: By the Stars You are able to navigate perfectly by using the stars as your guide. In any clear conditions at night, you are unable to be lost. You are also able to easily map the area with extreme detail and lead your party while traveling at night with no penalties to movement due to difficult terrain. Alternative Feature: Traveler’s Speak As a nomad, you learned to speak Nomadic Cant, a secret language spoken among nomads, performance and carnival troupes, and other migrant or vagrant communities. Nomadic Cant is a mix of dialect, jargon, and code that differs from Thieves’ Cant and allows you to speak freely without people understanding unless they are also of the nomadic tradition. In addition, you understand a set of secret markings and symbols used to convey short, simple messages. These symbols are used to identify nearby oases, warn against dangerous terrain ahead, or where the nearest trade merchants are residing. Suggested Characteristics You have always felt that since your homes were temporary, your culture and your life are rather temporary as well. d8 Personality 1 I quickly pick up on local accents. 2 I refer to my life as a nomad often. 3 I prefer to sleep under the stars. 4 I don’t enjoy being tied down to one place. 5 I am true to my word. 6 I enjoy making crafts out of things I find in new places. 7 I find beauty in the little details of life. 8 I have a sweet tooth. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom. I crave the life of a nomad and the freedom it gives me. (Chaotic) 2 Organized. I have everything in place so I can quickly move if needed. (Neutral) 3 Musical. I have a passion for music and dance. (Neutral) 4 Wealth. Trade and money are essential for survival. (Neutral) 5 People. I don’t care about ideals, only people. (Neutral) 6 Respect. The way to keep a party together is through mutual respect and trust. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I am always thinking of my family. 2 One day I will own my own permanent home. 3 I know where a secret source of freshwater is in a location I once lived. 4 A family member became a street beggar, and I hope to find and help them. 5 I am worried I will lose all that I have. 6 I buried a chest with 100 gp worth of treasure in case of a future emergency. d6 Flaw 1 I am a terrible singer. 2 I am quick to judgment. 3 I don’t take criticism well. 4 I am extremely afraid of spiders. 5 I am superstitious. 6 I become furious when people order me around. 

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

