# Northlands Reaver

**description**: The Northland's brutal winters breed harsh people; perhaps none more so than the reavers. Your life is a series of challenges to be overcome, spoils to be taken, and honor to be earned. You have sailed the icy northern seas in the dead of winter and the black of night, and you have put your enemies to the blade and the flame. Your name is fear on the lips of your foes and glory in the songs of your comrades. Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Survival Tool Proficiencies: Vehicles (water) Languages: Giant Equipment: A plundered memento from a past raid, a coil of hemp rope, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a pouch containing 5 gp. Feature: Reaver’s Journey Many sailors fear to sail far from charted water and familiar shores. Some balk at steering into the teeth of a gale in the dead of night. They are not you. As long as you aren’t traveling at a fast pace, you can’t lose your way under normal conditions. Inclement weather, lack of tools, or magic might impose penalties or steer you awry at the GMs discretion. Additionally, if you don’t undertake any other activity while traveling on a rowed vessel, you can drive the rowers to push beyond their ordinary limits. The rowers can crew the ship for 1 additional hour before risking exhaustion. Suggested Characteristics Northlands reavers live by a strict code of behavior and honor that seems paradoxical to outsiders. Though you are brutal in battle, you are also fearless, honorable, and hospitable. This even applies to your enemies outside of battle, so long as they return the courtesy. Bloodthirsty reavers are common, though, and those who reject honor and become outlaws are among the most feared brigands in all of Midgard. d8 Personality Trait 1 I drink. I sing. I fight. I live. 2 I long for the next test against a worthy opponent. 3 I come alive on the sea and pine for the salt air when I must leave it behind. 4 I never lay my most trusted weapon aside. 5 I love to tell stories of my great deeds. Some of them aren’t exactly true—at least, not yet—but that doesn’t matter. 6 I see omens in everyday occurrences. 7 I never back down from a challenge. 8 I quote the ancient songs for wisdom. d6 Ideal 1 Honor. I am generous in hospitality, fair in judgment, and fearless in battle. (Any) 2 Greed. What others have is mine for the taking. (Evil) 3 Tradition. Our ways are the legacy of the gods. Who are you to say differently? (Lawful) 4 Provision. I’ll provide for my people and keep them safe. (Good) 5 Freedom. We take what we need and go where we please. (Chaotic) 6 Survival. The world is harsh, and I’ll do what must be done to survive. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 My ship is worth more to me than all the mead in Bjeornheim. 2 Those who fight beside me earn my respect. 3 Even a hated enemy who shows me honor can expect the same in return. 4 My father’s axe bears a strange rune. I know it holds the key to my destiny. 5 My mother’s ship was lost at sea, but she’s still out there. I’ll find her. 6 My clan’s home is sacred ground. I’ll do anything to protect it. d6 Flaw 1 I lose myself in the heat and blood of battle. Orders and plans become a distant blur. 2 Alliances are all well and good, but gold is gold. 3 A slight demands blood. No other payment will do. 4 I ran from battle once. I’m running from the shame still. 5 Everything I have, I took from the one I betrayed. 6 I chafe under the expectations of honor.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

