# Nurian Theurge

**description**: The Southlands kingdom of Nuria-Natal is steeped in the magic of life and death. The greatest keeper of this knowledge is the theurge. As a theurge, you study the flow of the River Nuria that gives life to the desert, both physically as a source of fresh water, and magically as one of the largest ley lines in the world. You are the keeper of life and preserver of the dead for the next world. Most theurges are either clerics or wizards, but all have a working knowledge of both divine and arcane magic. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Religion Tool Proficiencies: Calligrapher's tools Languages: One of your choice between Ancient Nurian and Celestial Equipment: A roll of linen strips, sacred texts and diagrams, a set of common clothes, a small packet of spices, and a pouch containing 5 gp. Feature: Preservation The first theurges venerated Anu-Akma and learned the secrets of mummification. By applying those teachings, you can prepare a body for the final journey or even for the return to life. With 8 hours of work and access to proper materials such as linen and spices (25 gp cost), you can preserve a dead creature's body. This preservation slows decay, allowing a body to remain intact for potentially thousands of years if undisturbed. A preserved body counts as 1 day dead for every month that passes for purposes of spells or other magical effects. Suggested Characteristics Theurges are somber, solemn individuals. Many of them serve a god such as Aten or Anu-Akma. All are studious individuals who hold knowledge of the past in high regard. Theurges range from compassionate keepers of the dead, to dour souls who seek the darkness of preservation through undeath. d8 Personality Trait 1 Scriptures of the gods give us insight into any situation, and I quote them often. 2 I show great respect for any place of burial. 3 I am quiet and contemplative. Others tell me I am unnerving, but I don't see it. 4 I smell of spices and oils. 5 My clothing always bears some seal of the gods of the dead. 6 Desecration of the dead drives me to righteous rage. 7 I always carry a supply of fresh, potable water. 8 I enjoy learning about other people's lives. d6 Ideal 1 Comfort. Fear is defeated by compassion and by easing the suffering of others. (Good) 2 Equality. Ultimately everyone, regardless of station, will know the gods' peace. (Neutral) 3 Aspiration. Skill and knowledge lead toward self-improvement. (Any) 4 Power. Knowledge of life and death yields mastery over both. (Evil) 5 Duty. The gods set down expectations that must be followed. (Lawful) 6 Whim. I choose when and how to exercise my power. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I conduct at least minor funerary rites for all slain creatures, even my hated foes. 2 Death will not claim me; I will rise above it. 3 I'll go out of my way to defend burial sites. 4 I can't return to my home temple until I recover something of great value to my faith. 5 I will amass the world's greatest collection of necromantic lore and magic. 6 An ancient figure of great power has risen as undead, and I must see it returned to rest. d6 Flaw 1 I have a disturbing obsession with the undead. 2 I'm terrified of necromantic magic. I avoid it at all costs. 3 I will trade anything or anyone to secure eternal life. 4 I take a fatalistic view of life and death, often dismissing the deaths of those who aren't close to me. 5 I resent the gods for their greed, and I want to undermine their power. 6 My understanding of the world is unshakable.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

