# Of River's Hollow

**description**: You were born in River’s Hollow or raised there for at least 5 years and have been taught to worship DexMya. You know your destiny is to become a powerful Wardling and protect the world from evil. You have learned about the Oor and serve as an intermediary between the gods, nature, and the rest of the world. Skill Proficiencies : Insight, Religion Language : Sylvan Equipment : A small trinket that reminds you of home, a set of common clothes, a simple weapon of your choice, and a pouch containing 15 gp. Feature: Childlike Wonder You have a naturally curious and open-minded outlook on the world, which allows you to learn new skills easily. Every 3rd level, you may select a skill in which you are not proficient and gain proficiency in that skill. Suggested Characteristics You have been shaped by your friendships and mentors. Your dedication to becoming a Wardling can make you a bit intense but also loyal. d8 Personality 1 When I learn about a new way to use Oor, I can’t help but try to figure out how it works. 2 I am secretive about what I can do with my magical abilities. 3 I was taught only to fight if necessary and will always accept surrender. 4 I feel like everything is a sign from DexMya. 5 I prefer to take night patrols or night watches. 6 I am a stickler for the rules of River’s Hollow. 7 I will always be ready to help my friends. 8 I will never back down from a fight. d6 Ideal 1 God-touched. I want to please DexMya, and that guides my choices. (Neutral) 2 Reliable. I will always follow through on my promises to my best ability. (Good) 3 Courage. I will accept any adventure that benefits the world. (Good) 4 Chivalry. I respect the Wardling code of conduct of bravery, honesty, and defending the weak. (Good) 5 Wanderlust. I will accept any adventure that allows me to travel. (Chaotic) 6 Laughter. I believe that life needs to be fun. d6 Bond 1 My fellow Wardlings are my brothers and sisters. 2 I honor Or’Mya at all costs. 3 I will make a fey friend. 4 My familiar is more valuable to me than anyone else. 5 I’m secretly sad that I don’t get to play instead of fulfilling my Wardling duties. 6 I will master my craft. d6 Flaw 1 I do not like to use magic at all. 2 I have trouble keeping my concentration. 3 I will pursue justice to my own detriment. 4 If someone calls me “just a kid,” I cannot control my rage. 5 I look down on casters who are not properly trained in magic . 6 I am annoyingly competitive.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 8938

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

