# Of the Silver Staff

**description**: You were born into or trained as a member of the Silver Staff, resident in the Argent Halls adrift in the Starscape. Life among the vor’tai acolytes saw you tutored in the mastery of your physical form, and the broadening of your mental horizons, with long hours of martial training being followed by late nights among the scrolls and tomes the Staff guard. There are mentions of non-vor’tai members of this ‘Silver Staff’ – how did they get there? Planar travel is no small feat. Perhaps the vor visit our realm for recruitment purposes? Sooner or later, however, adventure found you. Whether by your own choice or by another’s, you no longer call the Halls home. Think about why your character left – was it their decision or one made for them? Under what circumstances might they be able to return? Do they want to? Think also about where your character is now, how it might differ from the Starscape, and how time in the plane of stars might have affected your character. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Acrobatics Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A scroll or text written in an ancient language, a silvered quarterstaff, a set of traveller’s clothes, and 5 gp. Feature: Starlit Senses Your time in the Silver Staff has attuned you both to the telepathic currents between creatures and the influence of the stars. You learn the message cantrip, and while starlight 1 shines upon you, you cannot be surprised. The Starscape is your native plane. Suggested Characteristics Compared to the mundane realm, life in the Starscape and the Argent Halls is very different – it can be quite a shock when these two worlds meet. d8 Personality Trait 1 I have a set schedule of training and study that I must follow each day. 2 I studied texts in a variety of languages, many of them ancient. I often sprinkle my dialogue with phrases and idioms in these old tongues. 3 I'm accustomed to how things worked in the Starscape and the Argent Halls and am regularly baffled by other realms and people and how they function. 4 The vor'tai I lived with could intuit my thoughts, feelings, and even sight. I've gotten used to being a very open person as a result. 5 Repetitive exercises and the pursuit of 'mastery' have meant I am now a perfectionist in all things. 6 Time flows differently in the Starscape, and I have a loose grasp on it. 7 I devour books voraciously, and I hate when a day goes by where I haven't learned something. 8 Living with telepaths means I now trail off sentences or start in the middle of one, expecting people to still be able to follow. d6 Ideal 1 Education. Through careful tutelage, I have been taught how to master both my mind and my body. I hope to pay forward my masters' investment in me to others. (Good) 2 Strength. There are the strong, both of the mind and of the body, and there are the weak. I exist to lead the weak. (Evil) 3 Nihilism. Through study I have come to realize my own insignificance in the vastness of the cosmos and the march of time. Why fight it? (Neutral) 4 Entropy. In order to affect meaningful change, a little uncertainty must first be introduced. I try to be that uncertain element. (Chaotic) 5 Discipline. The body and mind can be harnessed to achieve anything, but only if they are applied correctly, and consistently. (Lawful) 6 Praxis. I have learned that all the knowledge in the world is of no use unless it is also applied. Only through action is anything accomplished. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I have in my possession an important magical artifact that I must guard with my life. 2 I have been entrusted with an important task by my masters in the Halls. They say I am uniquely suited to it, though did not elaborate on why. 3 I left the halls with another acolyte that was a close friend, but we were separated. I'm trying to find them again, and make sure they're alright. 4 I was brought into the Silver Staff as an orphan. I'm trying to find out who my parents were, and what happened to them. 5 Our order's numbers dwindle, and I've taken it upon myself to seek out worthy apprentices. 6 I am on an assassination mission of critical importance. d6 Flaw 1 My perspective on right and wrong is on a more cosmic scale than others' and I can come across as cold or unfeeling as a result. 2 I use any opportunity I have to bring up my time in the Starscape. Any opportunity. 3 I'm very harsh and judgmental about how others look after their mind and body, having spent so long being taught how to hone mine. 4 There was never any real urgency when I was with the Silver Staff, and I don't react well under time pressure. 5 I got used to living with relatively few possessions during my time with the Staff. Now, I'm discovering I actually really like possessions. Also gold. 6 I'm not cut out for this! I liked the scrolls! None of the scrolls wanted to kill me! 1 – Ok, yes, sunlight is technically light from a star, you're very clever. It's up to your GM whether that counts or not.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Animancer

**book**: Enchiridion Vaz’kin’rai

