# Officer

**description**: In a crowded and chaotic city, crime is a common occurrence that must be prevented. To keep non-criminals safe, the enforcers in Kanrath and the C.B.I. in Cyherested work tirelessly. As an officer of law enforcement, you are one brave soul that has pledged an oath to protect the order at all costs. You may be a patrolling officer that keeps the peace at night, or a detective that solves mysterious murders. Whatever your duty might be, you have a superior that keeps you in line and a badge that helps you keep others in line. Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation Language: One of your choice Equipment: An officer uniform, a badge that indicates your rank and position, and a wallet containing 200 KF/CS Feature: Lawmaker Since you are a member of law enforcement, you have a badge that can solve some problems for you. Using it, you might enter places that don’t normally allow entry, or talk to people who don’t usually talk to strangers. However, not everyone is fond of officers. Revealing your identity to certain people might cause trouble. Suggested Characteristics Most officers are selected out of common people. None of them are nobles or royals but their commanders are vampires in Kanrath and sorcerers in Cyherested. Since their job requires them to work with people, they know how to talk and act according to most situations. Also, they are trained to stay calm in the most chaotic circumstances. d8 Personality Trait 1 I hate talking to people. 2 I love being an officer; it makes me feel powerful. 3 I like to joke around. 4 I’m a very serious person. 5 I get bored pretty quickly. 6 I shoot first, ask questions later (or never). 7 I like to talk using metaphors. I think it helps others understand me. 8 I ask a lot of questions if I think there is a hidden truth. d6 Ideal 1 Law. No one is above the law and everyone must respect the authority that makes the law. (Lawful) 2 Protection. I will protect my city. (Any) 3 Corruption. I don’t care about being an officer, I just like the power it brings. (Evil) 4 Tyrant. I am the force protecting the city. People will follow my commands, whether they like it or not. (Evil) 5 Helpful. I like to help people in need. (Good) 6 Riches. Crime will never end. I am just in this for the money. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I carry a scar that reminds me of a mission that went horribly wrong. 2 I messed with the wrong people and I think they’re after me. 3 I have a cold case I’m obsessed with. 4 I must continue doing what I do to protect the innocent. 5 I dedicated my life to protecting this city. 6 My coworkers are like my family. I would give my life to protect them. d6 Flaw 1 I am very superstitious. 2 I am easily frightened. 3 I secretly believe I am better than everyone else. 4 I secretly hate working for the monsters who rule us. 5 I have an addiction. 6 If I receive an order, I will follow it without question.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

