# Omen-Born

**description**: The circumstances of your birth are of supernatural significance to some people, which shaped your formative years a great deal. The details of this early life can be various, depending on how far-reaching the belief in your specialness was and the tone of it. You may have been deemed unlucky or existentially dangerous—feared and ostracized, grown up under the dark shadow of superstition (and maybe real magic). Conversely, a positive, or more open-ended Omen may have burdened you with the hopes and dreams of your community—maybe you were spoiled, always allowed to do as you pleased despite common sense and decency—or maybe you are an asset for the power-hungry to fight over and control. Wouldn’t most fringe cults want to raise the next great conqueror? Wouldn’t any king wish to snuff out the flame of a would-be usurper’s ambition? Born with the weight of prophecy on your shoulders, you decided to rebel against the supposed dictum of fate. You fled. Skill proficiencies: pick two from Arcana, Deception, Intimidation, Perception, and Religion. Tool proficiencies: Pick one based on your upbringing or omen. Disguise Kit if you fled early, for instance; Navigator’s Tools if your fate is tied to the sea, and so on. Languages: Choose one language tied to your omen or group that raised you. Languages such as Infernal, Primordial and Celestial speak of extraplanar influence. Equipment: A set of common clothes, a set of the tools you’re proficient with, a token from someone who showed you great kindness and suffered for it, and a pouch containing 7 gp. Omens and Prophecies You never had the chance to live a normal life. People where you grew up didn’t look at you like one of them. You were born marked by the powers that be—or so they believed—to fulfill some awesome fate. This made you an Other. Blessing or curse, this otherness deeply affected you. Choose or randomly determine your omen or prophecy. D8 Omens And Prophecies 1 You were born as everything went dark under a total eclipse of the sun, and you only started crying once the light returned. 2 Your mother took a fall that hastened your birth an entire month. Your twin was stillborn, but you were the picture of health and, as such, considered blessed. 3 The river near your village ran inexplicably red the day you were born, and it killed most of the fish. The subsequent year was a hungry one. Folk say you’re bad luck. 4 You are the child of a charismatic religious leader and his beautiful wife, whose womb, rumor had it until then, was barren. They said you were a gift from their god, a chosen savior who could do no wrong. The faithful believe it. 5 You were born with the umbilical cord wrapped around your neck like a hangman’s noose. Your father wanted to kill you then and there, but your mother and aunt didn’t let him. 6 You come from an old and proud lineage whose seventh children have a habit of dying early. All of them, until you came along. The family wizard assures them this marks you as someone chosen to change the world. 7 You were born with an axe-shaped birthmark on the palm of your left hand, just like a famous conqueror from the past supposedly did. Then you grew up left-handed. The first assassin came for you when you were four years old. 8 That crazy uncle always said his nephew would be “the emissary from the darkness between the stars!”. When you opened your eyes—one silver-colored, the other pitchblack— people started worrying about what it meant. Feature: Wretched Kin You know outcasts and where they gather. Beggars, vagrants, fugitives, and those otherwise disinherited by this world. You’ve been there, and you know how to work with them. If there’s a gathering place for such people in the area, you can find it easily. There, you can count on their solidarity. If you need to lay low, they take you in, no questions asked— but won’t risk their lives for you if threatened. If you need information about goings on in the streets or people passing by, one of them tells you something useful promptly. They will even perform small, relatively safe services, like delivering messages or distracting someone, for a small fee (at least 5 sp)— as much as they feel for you, they need money to eat. You can, of course, sour the relationship if you bring them harm. Suggested Characteristics Omen-Born tend to carry a lot of trauma and misconceptions with them, regardless of their supposed fates and innate tendencies. The ones who end up on the adventurous path soon have to grapple with their baggage. The world out there is much more complex than their formative years led them to believe, for good or ill. D6 Personality Trait 1 I push away those who try to get close to me 2 I avoid talking about your past at all costs 3 I’m reckless, convinced that the world will make way 4 The weight of destiny crushes me. Drinking helps 5 I am slow to trust, quick to strike first 6 I am easily swayed by praise D6 Ideal 1 Redemption. No sin too great. Redemption is attainable. (Good) 2 Rejection. Gods and spirits have no place in mortal affairs. (Any) 3 Freedom. The freedom to walk one’s own path is the greatest good. (Chaotic) 4 Spite. I live to prove those people wrong. (Any) 5 Revenge. I must drown the world in the blood of my tormentors. (Evil) 6 Conduit. My fate is a force of nature. It is predetermined, and I’m merely its vessel (Lawful) D6 Bond 1 I will lift my people to glory no matter what. 2 I will step out of the shadow and be a great force for good! 3 My happiness is secondary to fulfilling the prophecy and beginning a new age. 4 They treated me like a person and showed me a life unburdened by omens. I owe them everything. 5 I will make this world a better place for those upon whom fate hasn’t smiled as it did to me. 6 I will destroy those who would wield me as a pen to write history. D6 Flaw 1 My sense of self-importance makes me insufferable. 2 I am never to blame for anything that goes wrong. 3 I always overestimate my capabilities and underestimate others. 4 I know I’m doomed anyway, so why try to do better? 5 I don’t take no for an answer. To deny me is to know pain. 6 I play others like pieces on a board. Most people are just resources for me.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

