# Oracle

**description**: The path of fate is ever-flowing. Oracles are rare individuals who have been gifted with the ability to see further beyond the mortal realm and into the mechanisms of the cosmos itself to some degree. Some are granted this power by gods with domains within the intricacies of fate and prophecy. To the casual observer most things in life are nothing more than coincidences, but to an Oracle, the strings of Fate occasionally become as clear as the light of the sun. Where seemingly unlinked events lead to a particular result, these lines in the tapestry of fate become a piece of art that Oracles are able to catch glimpse at throughout their mortal life. You may have served a kingdom or a city as an advisor, tried to use this gift for your own benefit or even kept it completely to yourself so as to not stand out. However, fate never stays still and your own is somewhere out there, where you haven't been able to see just yet. You must look for it and figure out what to do with it. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Perception Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan's tools and one gaming set of your choice (cards, dice, or some other divination tool) Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A gaming set of your choice, a token of appreciation from someone you helped through divination, a set of Common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 5 gp Feature: Gazing into the Future You are able to use your gift in a minor way. Through a small ritual that lasts 1 hour, in which you converse with the target of your divination and use your preferred method of reading the flow of fate, you are able to discern minor details about the target's future. Once this ritual is finished you can offer insight and rather vague details that might help or inconvenience the target. After using this ritual you can expect your target to be more relaxed, friendly and perhaps willing to listen to you. At least, as long as they view your reading of their future favorably. Finally, you can receive aid and minor favors from people you have interacted with in this way before, such as information, shelter, food or medical attention. Assume that you may have at least one friendly contact in every settlement or city you've spent any significant amount of time in. Suggested Characteristics Oracles are all wildly different from each other in how they view their ability to read into the strings of fate. Some of them may be humbled and use their gift to aid others, while others may feel like cursed victims who resent the higher powers who gave them such an ability. The one thing every oracle can say is that they understand that there is a design, where others would simply see happenstance and coincidence. d8 Personality Trait 1 Unexpected events rarely faze me and sometimes feel oddly familiar. 2 I compulsively fiddle with a card, coin, or other tool used for my divination skills. 3 I'm self conscious about my visions of the future and nervous about sharing them. 4 If someone offends me I will tell them of their doomed fate. It may not be real, but the panic in their faces most definitely is. 5 The glimpses of the future I see frighten me and I try to avoid them at all costs. 6 While I enjoy sharing my insights, I never give them away for free. 7 I often change details about my visions. It's not as if they need to know, right? 8 My optimism never wavers. I’ve seen that things will turn out well in the end, one way or another. d6 Ideal 1 Aspiration. I’ve seen a hint of greatness in my own future, and I will work hard to achieve it. (Any) 2 Truth. I am a servant of the truth, and I will share it for good or ill. (Lawful) 3 Freedom. Knowing what may or may not come in the future, means that there's a chance to do something about it. (Chaotic) 4 Savior. I want to use my gift to prevent evil and misfortune from reaching kind and innocent people. (Good) 5 Guidance. One can never truly escape Fate, I can only guide people to theirs. (Neutral) 6 Control. My gifts give me the perfect leverage to move others to my tune. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 My grandmother passed a token to me when she explained our gift of The Sight. It’s my most prized possession. 2 I’m compulsively driven to read the fortune of powerful people. 3 My vision saved a town from a monster invasion. 4 I know secrets that could have devastating consequences if not revealed to the right people. 5 I've read the fortune of good people. Shortly after, they perished. This is a curse. 6 I told one fortune whose meaning I still can’t understand, but I know it has great importance. d6 Flaw 1 I saw a truth once that I refused to speak, and Tragedy was the result. It haunts me to this day. 2 My visions make me arrogant in matters I have foreseen. It's not as if the visions can be wrong. 3 I loathe charlatans and tricksters who take advantage of those who seek their fortunes, and I do what I can to discredit them. 4 I am always jealous of positive readings I make of people, since I cannot see my own future clearly. 5 I can't accept someone criticizing my visions. I know what I saw! 6 I can’t resist embellishing a fortune to try to earn a few more coins or a better impression.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

