# Order of the Gauntlet

**description**: You are a member of the Order of the Gauntlet, an organization devoted to crushing evil when it rears its ugly head. The order is composed of righteous warriors—paladins and clerics of Tyr, Helm, Torm, and Hoar—united by faith, ideals, and a powerful camaraderie. Unlike the Harpers, the Order of the Gauntlet conducts its operations in the open and refuses to strike preemptively. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Religion Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A heraldic pendant, a scroll containing the tenets of the order, and a pouch containing 15 gp Feature: Constant Vigilance The Order of the Gauntlet must be poised to retaliate should evil misbehave. To stay prepared, the organization works openly with local groups to identify and monitor evil threats such as cults, crime syndicates, or inherently evil creatures. When you enter a new settlement, you can request an audience on behalf of the order with faction agents, law enforcement, or clergy sympathetic to your cause. Advancement Every member of the Order of the Gauntlet begins as a Chevall. As they complete missions and additional training, members of the order may serve as mentors or take on influential leadership positions within the faction. Order of the Gauntlet Ranks Rank Name Role 1 Chevall Initiate 2 Marcheon Agent 3 Whitehawk Stalwart 4 Vindicator Mentor 5 Righteous Hand Exemplar Suggested Characteristics The Order of the Gauntlet is typically composed of good-natured individuals united under tenets of honor, duty, and justice. These virtues and the tight-knit bond between members mold these holy warriors for their never-ending battle against the forces of evil. d8 Persona lity Trait 1 I clutch my pendant for strength when threatened with fear or temptation. 2 I see omens in every event and action. The gods are speaking to us, we just need to listen. 3 I don’t like to go into situations unprepared. 4 I impart my earnings and possessions to those in need during my travels. 5 I never throw the first punch, but I always throw the last. 6 I am always honest in my intentions. Only evil works in the shadows. 7 There’s never a bad time to teach someone a lesson through a religious fable. 8 I’m a reformed criminal. Sometimes I slip into old habits. d6 Ideal 1 Integrity. To stand against evil, I must be righteous. (Good) 2 Mercy. Repentance begets forgiveness. Forgiveness begets righteousness. (Good) 3 Retribution. When evil strikes, I administer a swift and just penalty. (Lawful) 4 Honor. Punishing an evil act is just. Punishing an evil thought is not. (Lawful) 5 Bravery. I face my fears head-on. (Any) 6 Faith. The greatest weapon against adversity is devotion to my god. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My town was razed by a vicious cult. I won’t rest until they pay for their crimes. 2 An evil prophecy has begun, and I will do everything in my power to stop it. 3 I protect those who cannot protect themselves. 4 My mentor’s approval means everything to me. 5 I never leave a comrade behind. 6 The Order of the Gauntlet saved me when I was a child. I owe them my life. d6 Flaw 1 I am always willing to grant someone a second chance. 2 I never strike a creature when it’s down. 3 The burdens of others are mine to bear. 4 My ancestors committed horrible atrocities. My name carries their shame. 5 I am trusting of clerics and other overtly religious figures. 6 I’m still grieving the loss of one of my comrades. Reminders of their death shake me to my core.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Anthony Joyce-Rivera

**book**: Baldurs Gate - The Fall of Elturel

