# Otomo Family - Imperial Court

**description**: The original Otomo, the younger son of a great warlord, was glib, clever, and subtle. Thanks to his formidable powers of persuasion and manipulation, he was an expert at defusing conflicts that threatened to destroy his tribe. His wit and cunning soon proved of enormous value to the divine sibling Hantei as he sought to unite the disparate people of the nascent Empire of Rokugan. Today, the Otomo family still serves in the role of keeping Rokugan united, but sometimes this can also mean pitting the Great Clans against each other. In order to prevent the clans from privately uniting and gaining undue influence—or even seizing control of the Throne altogether—the Otomo use diplomacy to keep the various Great Clans at odds over contested territory, prestige, and other minor issues that never escalate to full civil war but allow the Imperial Court to play mediator, thus retaining its position of control. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, any one other artisan tool. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak, sign, read, and write Courtly Rokugani, an archaic version of the language used in many old texts and in some ceremonies. Equipment: Resplendent regalia, wakizashi, calligraphy set, any one artisan tool, and 12 gp. Background Feature: Heights of Power You grew up in the Imperial Court, a place both perilous for its intrigues and oddly separated from the dangers of the rest of the world, granting you the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the politics within the Imperial Capital. You can name Imperial family heads, ranking bureaucrats and other leaders, and you know their respective positions and allegiances. You know Imperial history quite well, particularly as it pertains to the deeds of the Emperor and the Imperial families. You know proper etiquette and protocol in the Imperial Capital. You know certain secrets that have been elided from the official histories of Rokugan. Suggested Feats Life in the Imperial Court requires developing certain talents, especially as relates the art of persuasion, diplomacy, and intrigue. If making an Imperial Court character, the following feats could be good thematic choices: Fashionable, Watchful Ancestors, and Celestial Authority.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

