# Outlaw

**description**: You’ve run afoul of the law at least once or twice and it’s given you a different perspective and maybe a bit more experience than you asked for. You’ve made contacts in the criminal underworld and can often sniff out the bad seed in the bunch. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Stealth Tool Proficiencies: Either a disguise kit or forgery kit (choose one), Infiltration tools, gaming set of your choice. Equipment: basic clothes, hooded jacket or overcoat, combat knife, 150 cubil Feature: Underworld Connection You have a contact that operates both across the expanse and in the Shadownet. They can give you the lowdown on any of the underworld connections, corrupt politicians, and shady merchants that can give you some info or pass along a message for you without alerting the law. Suggested Characteristics An outlaw is often seen as a villain, but to some they can be a hero. Deep down inside, they could be either one, or even both. Either way, they often hold some redeeming characteristics. They rarely, however, show any respect for authority or the law. d8 Personality Trait 1 I always have a Plan B. 2 I always keep my cool, no matter how dire the situation. 3 The first thing I do in a new place is take a note of anything nearby that could be considered valuable, or where the valuables could be hidden. 4 I would rather make new allies than new enemies. 5 I’m very slow to trust. Those who seem completely honest usually have the most to hide. 6 I don’t usually heed the risks in any scenario. Never tell me the odds. 7 If you tell me I can’t do something, my usual response is something close to “Here, hold my drink.” 8 I blow up at whoever insults my skills. d6 Ideal 1 Charity . I steal from the wealthy to help out those in dire need. (Good) 2 Honor . I never steal from others in my trade. Honor amongst thieves. (Lawful) 3 Freedom . We are not built to be held down by anything or anyone. (Chaotic) 4 Greed . I will do whatever it takes to get rich. (Evil) 5 People . I’m loyal to my friends and could care less about anyone else. (Neutral) 6 Redemption . Everyone deserves another chance to climb out of the darkness. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I need to pay off an old debt owed to a powerful figure or organization. 2 I break the law to support my family. 3 Something very important to me was stolen and I intend to get it back. 4 I’m guilty of a terrible crime for which I must seek redemption. 5 I intend to become the most infamous outlaw in the galaxy. 6 I inadvertently caused the death of someone I loved. I will again never make the same mistake. d6 Flaw 1 When I see something valuable, all I can think about are ways to steal it. 2 If I were given a choice between money and my friends, I usually go for the money. 3 My only plan is to never follow the plan. 4 I have a “tell” people can use to tell that I’m not being honest. 5 When things are looking dire, I head for the nearest exit. 6 Someone’s doing prison time for my actions. Better them than me. Variant Outlaw: Spy Though trained to work in the shadows and keep underground contacts, you’ve learned all of these techniques for the purposes of sanctioned espionage. You may be a corporate spy or perhaps you work secretly to uncover traitors to the government you serve.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

