# Partisan

**description**: You were born into the cold order of Tolia, but you do not believe anything needs to change. You are a citizen of Tolia, either living in Cyherested where sorcerers reign or Kanrath where vampires rule with an iron fist. It is thus a safe bet to assume you are either a sorcerer or a vampire, although you can simply be in awe of the system so much that you do not care about your own place in it. As a partisan, you are an integral cog in the machine that is the system and would stand against anyone trying to abolish it. Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Deception, History, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, Persuasion Language: One of your choice except Old Common Equipment: A set of common clothes, a propaganda flier, a pouch containing 150 KF/CS Feature: Insider As a partisan, you have dedicated your entire being to the preservation of the status quo and the continuation of the system, and this makes your life easier in the cities of Tolia. You get along with all figures of authority in Kanrath and Cyherested, can talk to them regardless of your status, and usually receive their help when you ask for it; unless what you’re asking for is particularly unreasonable. Suggested Characteristics You are more than happy to play your part in the grander scheme of things and detest anyone that refuses to do so. When you see someone blatantly disregarding the rules, you can’t help but intervene. The fact that you see nothing wrong with the way things are gives you a happier disposition than most in Tolia. d8 Personality Trait 1 I feel blessed to be in such capable hands as those tasked with our governance. 2 I want and require order in all things. 3 I wish to rise in the ranks until I reach the top. 4 I see red when someone criticizes the system. 5 Riches and status are all I care about; morality is for the weak. 6 I think those against the system are the lowest forms of existence. 7 I believe equality is overrated. 8 I do not believe in critical thinking; I’m told all I need to know. d6 Ideal 1 Order. Life has no meaning without order. (Lawful) 2 Hateful. All rebels deserve to die. (Evil) 3 Preservation. I hate change of any kind. (Any non-chaotic) 4 Sordid. The current system works to my benefit. (Neutral) 5 Groupie. I would do anything for those on top. (Neutral or Evil) 6 Lazy. I believe it’s a great privilege not to have to think for oneself. (Any) d6 Bond 1 Rebels killed my family; I shall avenge their deaths. 2 I want to be above the poor and uneducated in the hierarchy. 3 Civilization is the only thing separating us from beasts. 4 In nature, the strong oppress the weak. 5 If I keep my head down, I’ll get on top one day. 6 I must change the minds of rebels and show them the right way. d6 Flaw 1 I yearn to live in the wild. 2 I get tongue-tied around high ranking spellcasters and vampires. 3 I secretly detest anyone stronger than me. 4 I want to be an anarchist, but I’m too afraid. 5 I have a temper and sometimes snap at the wrong time. 6 I sometimes cannot hold my tongue when I need to.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

