# Patrician

**description**: You are one of the societal elite. You may have been born into wealth as part of a megacorporation or a famous family. Perhaps you fell into the life of political favor. Either way, you are considered within the upper class and have the connections and clout to prove it. Skill Proficiencies: Lore, Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: One instrument and one gaming set of your choice. Languages: One of your choice. Equipment: Fancy outfit, a piece of jewelry or clothing with your family/company symbol, 200 cubil. Feature: Power and Entitlement You are well bred and know how to function in high society. You would often be able to use your title and status to find your way into the backrooms where only the chosen sort of people can get into. You may also choose to throw your privilege around for a few benefits such as upgrades to lodgings, moving to the front of the line or getting a few trade discounts from merchants looking to get into your good graces. Suggested Characteristics Patricians are born into a lifestyle that most other people will never experience or understand in their lifetime. A position of power and status comes with wealth and privilege, but also comes with a wealth of responsibility. Many patricians are often part of a family dynasty or have to jump through many hoops to maintain their status amongst others within their circle. They must also surround themselves with people they can trust, something often harder to find than one would think. d8 Personality Trait 1 I like to make those I talk to feel like the most important person in the whole galaxy. 2 I am often admired for my kindness and generosity. 3 Anyone can tell just by looking at me that I’m a cut above the uncultured “regular” people. 4 The most important thing to me is to look my best and keep up with all the latest fashion trends. 5 I’m not one to get my hands dirty and wouldn’t be caught dead in anything less than luxury accommodations. 6 My position and social standing is simply a way of life, no more important or better than anyone else’s. 7 Once you betray my trust, I never forgive or forget. 8 If you cross me, I will socially and professionally destroy both you and your entire family. d6 Ideal 1 Respect . I try to give as much respect as I’m due, but usually give just as little as I get. (Neutral) 2 Responsibility . I am as respectful to those above me as I would expect from those who owe me the same courtesy. (Lawful) 3 Independence . I will prove to my friends and family that I can take care of myself. (Chaotic) 4 Power . Those at the top can’t be told what to do. (Evil) 5 Family . No bond is stronger than blood. (Any) 6 Obligation . It’s my duty to use my position to help those less fortunate. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I will do anything to win the love and support of my family. 2 My family’s status must be maintained at all costs. 3 Nothing is more important to me than my family and friends within my circle of privilege. 4 I am in love with someone who my friends and family insist is not good enough for me. 5 My loyalty to the company I work for is unwavering. 6 I would do anything to be seen as a hero over a snob. d6 Flaw 1 I secretly believe that I am more important than everyone else. 2 I’m hiding a secret that could bring down my family and those closest to me. 3 I tend to look for insults in every word when spoken to. 4 I have a “bad” side, tending to secretly enjoy vulgar practices and carnal pleasures. 5 I act like I’m the center of the universe. 6 I purposely do things to bring shame to my friends and family.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

