# Pilot

**description**: There isn’t anything you can’t fly. When you’re in a vehicle, you’re a diamond in the sky, a star blazer, a leaf on the wind… you get the idea. You might be a retired fighter jock, a commercial pilot, mercenary ace, or maybe you learned how to fly your parents’ space rig when you were small. Skill Proficiencies: Astrophysics, Insight Tool Proficiencies: Vehicle (Planetary), Vehicles (Space) Equipment: flight suit, 150 cubil. Feature: Knowing the Craft You know your way around a ship and are part of a select crew that can speak technical jargon that may as well be another language. You find it easier to figure out the type and purpose of most vehicles. You can often find safe and affordable passage for you and your group to other planets and systems. You are also welcome at most spaceports when docking your own ship. Suggested Characteristics Pilots are just as comfortable, if not more so, behind the controls of any vehicle as they are on their own feet. Their experiences have led them to live life by the seat of their pants and grow frustrated whenever they are stuck in any one spot. d8 Personality Trait 1 I do not want to stop until I get to wherever I’m going. 2 I grow bored whenever I’m in the same place for too long. 3 I’m always ready with a daring tale of my escapades for any situation. 4 Anytime I see a new vehicle, all I can do is think about what makes it tick and how to operate it. 5 I have a very vivid imagination and am not afraid to share it with others. 6 I tend to gravitate toward other pilots, regardless of their scruples or morality. 7 I live my life by the light-year. No danger is too great compared to the thrill. 8 I’d like to someday settle down with a special someone. Just not today. d6 Ideal 1 Greater Good . I perform at my best when it’s for a good cause. (Good) 2 Impartiality . I’ll take on any cause, just as long as I get to fly. (Neutral) 3 Professional . Nothing is worse than abusing your skills or taking them for granted. (Lawful) 4 Greatness . I’ll take out anyone that gets in my way at becoming the best. (Evil) 5 Freedom . No one owns the stars. We’re free to go wherever we choose. (Chaotic) 6 Glory . Through study and practice, I’ll be the greatest pilot there ever was. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I want to own and command my own ship one day. 2 No one is more important to me than my ship and my crew. 3 I was stripped of my rank and want to prove my worth to those I once worked for. 4 I have a friendly rivalry with another pilot who I used to fly with. 5 I am the last survivor of my crew. I am very protective of any new friends I make. 6 I did a job for the wrong people and wish to find a way to clear my name. d6 Flaw 1 I often like to be in control under any circumstances. 2 I tend to do something drastic or get distracted by the wrong thing if I spend too long in one place. 3 I tend to take needless risks with my own life and the lives of my companions. 4 I have no social graces outside of my profession. 5 I will sacrifice my companions for the sake of the ship. 6 I often treat those who have never traveled the stars as if they are primitive barbarians.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

