# Plague Doctor

**description**: Plague doctors are the brave (and sometimes mad) members of a community who are willing to risk illness and injury in their efforts to heal the sick. Plague doctors are equal parts scholar, healer, and student of esoteric medical arts. Some attend academies as physicians only to find the long apprenticeships difficult to endure before taking their skills on the road. Others are healers following their community’s healing traditions. Still others are wandering scholars, collecting specimens and recording the characteristics of the foulest pestilences. The path of the plague doctor is often a lonely one; but personal motivation spurs them on to the next account of disease and illness. Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, Medicine Tool Proficiencies: Herbalism kit Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A leather mask of any style with lenses over the eyes and filtered nose and mouth holes, a leather overcoat, an herbalism kit, six glass vials, and a pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Esoteric Physician Your training allows you to treat diseases without the aid of magic or prayers. You can spend one hour tending to a creature to place it in your care until it finishes a long rest. You can have up to four creatures in your care at a time. While in your care, a creature can perform only light activities and rest; otherwise, the creature loses the benefits of your care and can’t be placed in your care again for the next 24 hours. A creature that finishes a long rest while in your care has advantage on the next saving throw it makes against a disease it is suffering. Suggested Characteristics Plague doctors are both brave and curious. Though their training strays toward the esoteric, plague doctors are intelligent and motivated learners. Some may be cold and analytical scholars of pestilence, while others are inspired to heal the afflicted. In their darkest moments, a plague doctor is a detached spectator to suffering, struggling to feel for others through the thick skin their profession has provided. d8 Personality Trait 1 I am brave and able to function well under stressful conditions. 2 I am curious about the world, its inhabitants, and its illnesses. 3 I am detached emotionally from situations that require empathy. 4 I care for the well-being of others and encourage healthy living. 5 I am obsessive about my interests. I overshare details about my interests to those who show the slightest curiosity. 6 I am happiest when healing others. 7 I am driven to learn. I am most engaged by circumstances and things that are new to me. 8 I am haunted by a life of caring for the sick and dying. d6 Ideal 1 Education. I believe that learning is a way of life. I am thrilled to learn new skills and teach others skills I possess. (Any) 2 Objectivity. I have seen the smart make mistakes and perish under the influence of their emotions. I must maintain critical distance from all situations to remain useful. (Any) 3 Restoration. Curing the sick is the most significant thing I can do with my time. (Good) 4 Practicality. I must do what is required to cure the sick. In this way do I serve my patient and my profession. (Lawful) 5 Wonder. Diseases are the fractal patterns left behind by the unknowable and expanding universe. Even a sickness is beautiful. (Chaotic) 6 Experimentation. Sometimes I must promote suffering to learn more in my profession. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I am committed to eradicating a specific disease that took a loved one from me. 2 I collect information on as many diseases as I can and record it in a massive bound book. 3 I seek to cure those who have lost hope. 4 I will prove to the world that pestilence is a part of the natural order. 5 I collect diseased fluids for an obscure academy. 6 I will find a cure for my village’s sickness. d6 Flaw 1 I detach emotionally during stressful situations. 2 The horrors I have seen sometimes interrupt my sleep. 3 My curiosity sometimes slides into obsession, clouding my judgment. 4 My sense of humor is too dark for most. 5 I feel anxious and fumble for words when not wearing my physician mask. 6 I am hopelessly addicted to substances that suppress tragic memories.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

