# Polymorphed

**description**: You were transformed into an animal or monster and lived that way for years. You most likely entered this form unwillingly but how you came down with this affliction is up to you. A caster with an axe to grind may have cast true polymorph for some petty offense committed by you or a loved one. Maybe you unwittingly donned a cursed magic item. Perhaps you activated some arcane trap when you accidentally stumbled into an ancient ruin. You could have made the choice willingly to infiltrate some group of monsters or hide as a beast from someone hunting you. You also should decide who or what changed you back to your true form. You were in your alternate form for years. How was living in that form different from the way you lived your life before? In what ways were you more powerful? Less powerful? Do you miss the strength of your old form or are you glad to be back in your own flesh? Skill Proficiencies: Survival and choose one additional from either Animal Handling or Deception. Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A bag of caltrops, a realistic ink drawing of your polymorphed form, a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch with 5 gp Feature: Kindred Spirit Nonhostile creatures of the same type as your polymorphed form are inclined to like you. These creatures might help guide you to a place if they know its location, provide you with shelter, or shield you from danger, provided they aren't put directly into harm’s way. Suggested Characteristics You have spent so much time in the skin of another form that you’re not comfortable with your true body. This discomfort may manifest in a physical form like fidgeting, wearing baggy or eccentric clothing, or the need to change your appearance through tattoos or piercings. You may have more of a subconscious mental tick like targeting the appearance of others to make yourself feel better or nightmares of once again living in your polymorphed form. Your old form was a prison that hid your true self, but it was also a way to keep yourself shielded from harm. d8 Personality Traits 1 I am always fidgeting because I am uncomfortable. 2 I retained a rude physical behavior of my polymorphed form. 3 I obsess over my appearance and wear eccentric outfits. 4 I always judge the way others look. 5 I am unsure of what to say when people ask about me. 6 I often speak in my head by accident instead of aloud. 7 I find it’s easier to lie than give real personal details. 8 I must keep touching my body to reassure myself I’m in it. d6 Ideals 1 Freedom. People should be free to express who they are. (Chaotic) 2 Power. If it gets me what I want, I’ll manipulate anyone. (Evil) 3 Security. All people deserve a place where they feel at peace. (Good) 4 Beauty. All people should appreciate who they are. (Neutral) 5 Authority. If you respect authority, you will be protected. (Lawful) 6 Dog Eat Dog. To survive you must be the smartest or strongest. (Neutral) d6 Bonds 1 I have altered my appearance to look like my polymorphed form. 2 Some friends I made in my polymorphed form don’t know I’ve been turned back. 3 I carry a piece of my old body. 4 The place where I spent most of my time while polymorphed is home to me. 5 I still haven’t seen my family since before I was polymorphed. 6 I still enjoy eating what I ate in my polymorphed form. d6 Flaws 1 I want to be back in my polymorphed form. 2 I sometimes believe I still possess abilities of my polymorphed form that I no longer have. 3 All transmutation magic is terrible and must be stopped. 4 I physically hurt myself for assurance I am in my true form. 5 It’s easier to back down from an argument than try to convince someone I'm right. 6 The opinions of my friends are more important than my own. Variant Feature: Body Horror This feature is meant for games using the variant madness rules in chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide . Before choosing this feature you must ask your DM. You have spent so much time in the form of another creature that you aren't easily shocked by bodily manipulation and mutilation. Whenever such a sight would cause you to save against a madness effect you automatically succeed.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Castle Skydawn Design

**book**: Xanathar's Lost Notes to Everything Else

