# Port Town - Commoner

**description**: The sea, the source of salt and fish but also storms, provides and takes away in equal measure. Wise fishers respect the power of the waves and the devastating effects of floods. Tempestuous, unpredictable, dangerous. Understandable, life-giving, nourishing. All these things are true of the water, and anyone who has spent a substantial amount of time near it knows this. Rivers and lakes may often be placid, but their power for good and ill must still be appreciated. They can overflow and flood, and they can drown people. Rivers and lakes can facilitate transportation, serve as navigational markers, and of course provide fresh water and fish. Architects and builders utilize water wheels and dams to harness water’s power without depleting it. Water has strong ties to trade and travel. Fishers, sailors, and merchants transport their wares on the water. Rivers act as arteries for the circulation of society, passing goods, news, and people up and down, bringing life and vitality to every place they touch. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool, vehicles (ships). Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes or unremarkable garb, dagger, any one tool, and 2 gp. Suggested Feats: Fashionable, Merchant’s Streetwise, Translator’s Knowledge. Background Feature: Worldly Wisdom As a resident of a particular region, you have the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your place of origin. You can name major families, prominent merchants, and other leaders in the region as well as their respective positions and allegiances. You know the layout and local residents in the neighborhood where you grew up or where you live now, along with any unusual features, shortcuts, or hidden wonders in your home region. You have knowledge of the impact of crime, poverty, or political unrest that you have experienced in your homeland. You know the trade that you grew up around extremely well, even if you do not practice it yourself. This might be woodcraft, hunting, or fishing in a rural village, commerce or artisanry in a bustling city, agriculture in a farming town, or sailing in a seaside port, to name only a few examples. You can always figure out where to go to get work when in your home region or a similar area.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

