# Professional Athlete

**description**: You were born into a legacy that your family and your community takes pride in. While other children played, you trained. In fact, your version of relaxing is to work up a sweat until your endorphins kick in. But, just when you thought you were close to fulfilling your purpose, you discovered your journey was only just beginning. Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics, Athletics Tool Proficiencies: A gaming set of your choice and Vehicles (Planetary). Equipment: basic clothes, sports uniform, trophy collection, SIM unit, 200 cubil Feature: Every Little Bit Counts Your competitive drive gives you a level of commitment and discipline that can make others look like underachievers. You gain advantage whenever competing in an amateur sport or competition that calls upon your athleticism. Suggested Characteristics As athletes are driven to excel, they try to bring their level of dedication to whatever new path they choose. Sometimes, though, such a major change can drag them down. They can sometimes drift from one job or gig to another without an anchor. Regardless, an athlete understands the importance of details, practice, and keeping a daily regime. d8 Personality Trait 1 I used to be rising star, which I remind people about when I get depressed. 2 I try to forget my past and look to building a new future and new competitions to win. 3 I keep trying over and over until I succeed. 4 I’m living for me now, since my childhood was wasted winning trophies that helped no one. 5 I still like to workout, but there are bills to pay and have to find work. 6 I am still the biggest fan of my sport and see it as metaphor for life. 7 I can’t stand sports anymore and avoid talking about it. 8 I’m looking for the next superstar. Now is the time to find a pupil. d6 Ideal 1 Pragmatic . Talent helps, but you can never underestimate luck. (Neutral) 2 Helping hand . I know that teamwork is key. (Good) 3 Tradition . Every game has rules for a reason. (Lawful) 4 Cheating . Second place is first loser. (Evil) 5 Freedom . Rules are for chumps but so is always winning. Just have fun. (Chaotic) 6 Aspirational . The first one to act always has the first edge. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I used to fight only for myself. Now, I'll always fight for my teammates. 2 I’m hunting for a new technique to put me back in the game. 3 One of my favorite coaches turned out to be someone I never expected. 4 Something strange happened to one of my biggest fans. I need to find out the truth. 5 A horrible accident ruined my career. I need to make sure it never happens to anyone else. 6 My entire life as an athlete was only to prepare me for something much greater. d6 Flaw 1 To my shame, I was caught cheating. I will do anything to keep that hidden. 2 I can’t stop talking about my glory days to anyone that will listen. 3 I need to win at everything. My life is a competition. 4 I avoid some challenges because sometimes you’ve lost before you even play. 5 Bad blood with referees has taught me to never trust the authorities. Rules are merely suggestions. 6 I let my team carry me to greatness, but I can never reveal that to my friends and family.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

