# Protector of the Tribe

**description**: You grew up as part of a tribe that lives in unity with nature and the spirit world. At some point in your life, whether early or at a late age, the desire to protect your people became a driving force. You had a mentor supporting you and teaching you everything they knew. You not only learned to fight for yourself and others, but also to take care of your own equipment. Your tribe gladly accepted, maybe even honored you as a protector. If you decided to leave your tribe, there was a strong reason. Maybe you think the world beyond holds the key to the survival of your people. You might be on a search for new allies, knowledge or magic items. Or you are on a quest to follow one of the great legends of your tribe. You might even have received visions from the spirit world sending you on an important mission. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Survival Tool Proficiencies and Languages: Smith's tools, plus one language of your choice Equipment: Leather armor An explorer's pack 1 gold piece A set of traveler's clothes in the style of your tribe Spirit bonds: You have learned to attune to the spirit world. Ocasionally, you receive helpful dreams and visions assisting you on your path, or helping you find the right way when you are torn between decisions. Suggested characteristics: You are a deeply caring person, willing to risk your own life to protect those you love. You might fight for the greater good or simply for the survival of your tribe. Either way, you are convinced that you know how to best protect your people. And you are willing to dedicate your life to it. Traits The world has changed so much that the old traditions and beliefs are not enough to survive anymore. I am open to learning about this new world. I believe in the sacred ways of my culture, and want to preserve them by teaching others. The cataclysm has left me terrified, and I believe we have to prepare for greater dangers yet to come. I am guided by the spirit world, and I go wherever the spirits send me. I seek new wisdom, so both I and my tribe can grow. I have lost too many people since the apocalypse, and seeing the faces of my tribe every day only reminds me of those who didn’t make it. I feel like I am not yet worthy as a protector of the tribe, and I want to travel the world to become better. Since the world shifted to Braythe, I feel my own soul is not as attuned to the world as it was. I desire to travel the world to find answers, and become one with the land again. Ideals Spirituality. Everything and everyone has a soul worth saving. It is not always possible, but it is always worth the try. (Good) Society. The sacred ways of my tribe have to be preserved at all costs. (Lawful) Survival. After all my people have lost, we have to do whatever is necessary to secure our survival, even if the old ways forbid it. (Chaotic) Hatred. After all I have lost, there is no love or mercy left in me. (Evil) Adaptation. The world has changed so much, everything I have learned has to be reevaluated. (Neutral) Growth. I am aware of my shortcomings, and I seek to grow to become a better and more valuable person. (Any) Bonds I have a strong bond to my mentor, who might or might not have survived the last years. He made me promise something, and I intend to keep that promise. Someone killed a person I loved, and their face is etched forever in my mind. I will not rest until I have found the murderer. A member of my tribe that means a lot to me has gone missing. I will do everything to find them. The shaman of my tribe asked me to go on a quest of great importance for my people. The spirit world is as important to me as the world of the mortals. I had a dream vision that left me with an important task I need to fulfill. I seek for a wisdom I could not find in my own tribe, so I will travel the world in search of answers. Flaws I trust in the old ways or the spirit world so much that I sometimes make serious mistakes based on these beliefs. I can be overprotective at times, ignoring boundaries to make sure nothing happens to those I love. My spirituality influences my communication so much that others sometimes have a hard time understanding what I’m talking about. I am often guided by anger and pain, and lash out at innocents. I feel terrible guilt because I could not protect someone important to me. I have nightmares and flashbacks about the moment I lost them. I have lost so much that I feel the world owes me something in return, and now I take what I believe I deserve.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

