# Public Intellectual

**description**: You’re known for speaking out against—or in favor of—a regime, political organization, religious body, or other entity that holds state power. Perhaps you’re a dissident or even an exile (work with the GM to figure out what fits best in your campaign). Your mastery of political science, ethics, and philosophy allows you to express complex ideas about governance, political systems, and history with ease. Perhaps you wrote and distributed tracts and pamphlets urging people to recognize a particular injustice. You might be a clergy member who gives weekly sermons about this or that law, policy, or ruler. Maybe you're a creator whose art contains subtle (or not-so-subtle) critiques of those in power. Work with your GM to determine what kind of reputation you have. Skill Proficiencies: Your choice of two of the following: History, Performance, or Religion Languages: One of your choice Tool Proficiencies: Your choice of one set of artisan’s tools or a disguise kit Equipment: A set of traveler’s clothes, a set of artisan’s tools or a disguise kit, one tool of your craft (such as a writing kit, a religious item, an instrument, or a costume), and a pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Your Reputation Precedes You People are familiar with your work and recognize you on sight. Some are eager to show their respect, while others consider you a nuisance or even a threat. This minor celebrity allows you access to places and people that might not otherwise be afforded to you, such as a noble court; the chambers of elected officials, community leaders, or clergy members; an elite social club; or a secret hideout. Medium Your medium determines how you get your message to your audience. Roll or choose from the table below, or work with your GM to come up with an idea that isn’t on the table. d6 Medium 1 Art (novels, plays, poetry, or visual art) 2 Performance (acting, dance, or music) 3 Scholarly writing 4 Public speaking 5 Sermons 6 Community leadership Suggested Characteristics Public intellectuals spend their time thinking critically and deeply, reflecting, and analyzing. They generally have an area of expertise and spend their time generating writing or art to share their analyses and opinions. They can be fiery and intense or quiet and reflective. They might be stubbornly opinionated or open-minded and curious. Either way, they’re passionate about ideas and analysis. See the tables in the Personal Characteristics section for more ideas.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 9

