# Red Winter Adherent

**description**: You are part of the Red Winter, whether recently inducted or a more seasoned member. You and your brothers and sisters of the Red Winter believe vampires have subverted the natural order of things by ruling over the living. Vampires have no blood except that which they take from the living. They are parasites. It is the living who are truly blessed by the Blood Goddess. Your order seeks vengeance on the parasites who have overreached their station, and you plan to put the scales back in balance. You and your fellow adherents will bring the Red Winter, a final, cold season when the snows run red with stolen blood, spilled from the thieves who took it. Your connection to the cult provides you with essential direction and inspiration. The beliefs of the cult helped to set you on the difficult path you walk today. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Religion Tool Proficiencies: Disguise kit or forgery kit Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A holy symbol, a disguise kit or forgery kit, vestments or a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 5 gp Feature: Clandestine Assistance When in the Grand Duchy of Morgau, or its adjacent territories, you can receive assistance from other members of the Red Winter for you and your companions. By using secret signs or notes at designated drops, you can ask your fellow cultists for aid. The circumstances of whether aid can be provided, when, and in what amount, is dependent on the GM. For example, if you and your companions need access to a noble's house, you might be provided with a forged invitation to a party being held in a few days time. Or you could receive the floor plans to the noble's dungeon, as well as a copy of a key to open a gate into a little-used courtyard. This feature works both ways. If you and your companions can provide needed assistance to local Red Winter cultists, they might contact you to seek such assistance. Refusal is remembered and can affect use of this feature in the future. Suggested Characteristics Adherents of the Red Winter walk a difficult road. They are faithful to Marena, but they directly oppose her church's orthodoxy and the political base that supports it. They support the living citizens of Morgau, but they can’t trust those citizens. This tightrope walk between devotion and distrust shapes the adherents’ personalities and interactions with others. d8 Personality Trait 1 I expect treason constantly, and I always have contingency plans in place in case of betrayal. 2 I always try to find an advantage in even the worst situations. 3 In public, I work to avoid notice and act as unassuming as people. 4 I'm fond of quoting scripture apt to a situation, especially to my enemies in the same faith. 5 Having spent much time living in spartan conditions, I'm uncomfortable with luxurious accommodations. 6 When entering a new area, I always look for avenues of escape and potential enemies. 7 I perform subtle tests when meeting new people to ensure they aren't vampires. 8 By treating servants and the oppressed well, I often find new avenues for information and gossip. d6 Ideal 1 Tradition. A return to traditional ways must come from an overthrow of the current hierarchy. (Lawful) 2 Freedom. Let the oppressors be overthrown, so my people and I can live free. (Chaotic) 3 Self Interest. I will help the Red Winter succeed, so that I can achieve my own goals. (Neutral) 4 People. The people deserve a chance to live in accordance with Marena's teachings without bowing to the undead. (Neutral) 5 Power. The path of the Red Winter will lead me to a position of prestige. (Evil) 6 Fairness. As a living example of the Red Winter's teachings, I will prove myself faithful. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My service to the Red Winter is penance for letting a loved one die at the hands of a vampire. 2 If I aid the Red Winter in overthrowing the current order, I will restore honor to my family name. 3 By helping the cult succeed, I repay the dead family members/friends/allies that sacrificed their lives for mine. 4 A Red Winter priest rescued me as a child; I owe them my life. 5 I shall spread the holy word of the Red Winter among the orthodoxy, so they may convert and save themselves. 6 My family was taken by the vampires. If they still live, I will find them. d6 Flaw 1 I'm slow to trust and often misjudge the actions of others because of my suspicious nature. 2 My judgment can be clouded when pursuing personal vendettas. 3 Faced with a choice between my faith and my friends, I will usually choose my faith. 4 I often give the faithful of Marena the benefit of the doubt, even when they serve the opposition. 5 My penchant for bloodletting can be disturbing to others. 6 Seduction is the purview of Marena, one to which I may pay entirely too much attention.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Underworld Player's Guide

