# Refugee

**description**: You have been driven from your homeland by the ravening forces of the Shadow. Without access to the traditional lands of your people, you have been forced to find succor in the lands of others. Taken in and given aid and shelter by the free peoples of Eredane, you and yours have found some measure of safety from the threat of Izrador’s armies. You may hail from distant lands and foreign cultures to where you have settled, or your flight may have been less distant, but no less devastating. Whatever the case may be, you now find yourself among strangers, making a life for yourself in lands and among people who are unknown to you, yet who have welcomed you in as their fellows. Skill Proficiencies: Survival, Insight Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools. Languages: One of your choice (usually the most common language of wherever in Eredane you settled after escaping the Shadow) Equipment: A set of common clothes, a memento from your family or homeland, a pouch containing 10gp Feature: Diaspora Driven from their homeland by Izrador’s armies, your people have spread across Eredane, finding succor and safety where they can and forming enclaves among the Free Peoples. In any city or holdfast that resists the Shadow, you can find those that share your plight and can provide you with welcome, if meager, hospitality. Suggested Characteristics Those who have been forced to flee their homeland may find that they hold ever more tightly to the customs and traditions they brought with them, while others open themselves to the traditions of those with whom they now reside. In most cases, people in such circumstances will find a place between those two extremes. d8 Personality Trait 1 I never hesitate to help others in need. 2 I am single minded in the pursuit of my goals. 3 I have a story from my homeland for every occasion. 4 When I am confronted with something overwhelming, I find stability in thoughts of my childhood. 5 I gather trinkets and mementos wherever I go. 6 I am unshakable in my convictions. 7 I share songs from my homeland with any who will listen. 8 I value kind actions over pleasant words. d6 Ideal 1 Respect. The people of Eredane will persevere through only if they band together in mutual respect. (Good) 2 Connection. The Shadow wishes to separate us, but we are stronger if we can stay connected across Eredane. (Neutral) 3 Freedom. No one is safe so long as the Shadow hangs over this land. (Chaotic) 4 Inquisitive. I wish to learn all that I can of the people who have taken me in. (Neutral) 5 Justice. Those who would prey upon those weaker than them deserve to be punished. (Lawful) 6 Sanctuary. I wish to provide those in need with the same safety that has been provided to me. (Good) d6 Bond 1 One day I will return home. 2 The traditions of my homeland are alive and well with me. 3 Those who have accepted me and my loved ones will forever have my gratitude. 4 I will honor and avenge those that did not survive the journey from our homeland. 5 I hid something of great personal value before I fled, I must return to my homeland and recover it before the Shadow finds it. 6 While I may now live in a new land, I am still sworn to my liege, and I will serve them as best I can. d6 Flaw 1 Those that drove me from my homeland still pursue me, putting those around me in danger. 2 I am ever on my guard, and I assume the worst in people. 3 I struggle to contain my hatred of those who serve the Shadow, which has gotten me into trouble in the past. 4 I have a secret that I hope doesn't follow me. 5 I am often overcome with a bleak and cynical outlook. 6 I try to find the best in everyone, sometimes making me oblivious to malicious intent.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 30502

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

