# Rover

**description**: Rovers spend a large part of their lives in the free, natural manner traditional of feral communities and wolfcats, hermits, heretics, woodcutters, coalmen, shepherds, and the more isolated pagans. They are hunter-gatherers and their groups move with the seasons, drawing all their raw materials from the remains of animals or plants. The rovers’ cultures, skills, and knowledge are deeply influenced by their outdoor life, experience with wild territories, and communion with nature and its phenomena. Skill Proficiencies : Animal Handling, Athletics Tool Proficiencies : Herbalism Kit Languages : Petroglyph Equipment : A staff, an animal bone pendant, colored pigments, a set of traveler clothes, and a pouch with 10 sp. Feature: Wild Comfort You know how to move with respect for the creatures inhabiting the wildlands. This awareness allows you to avoid unpleasant encounters. You and up to five other people can travel across any wild territory without encountering hostile beasts. This feature does not affect different kinds of encounters. Suggested Characteristics Rovers experience life among civilized peoples as a wolf would amidst domesticated dogs, and they often feel alien in a world made of cities, farmland, and “civil” customs. Instinctively, they feel more akin to animals in chains or cages than to their owners. Far from living “in the State of Nature”, rovers have a vast and complex culture that involves living in the wilderness, away from walls, roads, or stone houses – a life they constantly miss whenever they find themselves sleeping in a flea-ridden bed with a ceiling a mere few feet from their head. d8 Personality Trait 1 Nobility, titles, and wealth mean nothing to me. 2 Every time I'm far from the wilds, I get nostalgic and restless 3 I feel like a caged animal every time I walk into a place surrounded by walls or covered by ceilings. 4 I can't stand the crowds, the masses, the noise, and the smell of the civilized towns. 5 I get aggressive if someone gets too close or doesn't mind their own business. 6 Every act of spontaneous kindness softens my heart and fills it with gratitude. 7 I love showing the arts and crafts I know to the peasants, getting to learn their respective trade secrets in return. 8 I get along well with animals and beasts. I cannot say the same for humans. d6 Ideal 1 Respect. Animals, wilds, peasants, and citizens should all live in communion and mutual respect for each other. (Good) 2 Law of the Wild. The laws of nature are the only laws we should all respect. (Lawful) 3 Freedom. Everyone should live out in the wild. Civilization is a momentary artifice only. (Chaotic) 4 Law of the Strongest. In the wild, the strongest have the right to do whatever they want. (Evil) 5 Survival. The most important thing is survival. Save yourself today to keep on hunting tomorrow. (Neutral) 6 Contemplation. The starry sky above my head, the wildling spirit inside my heart. (Any) d6 Bond 1 The members of my tribe, clan, or family, that I left behind, somewhere, along the way. 2 The inhabitants of the village near my community's territory, the only civilians to ever show me spontaneous friendship. 3 The wandering huntress who took me with her when I was just a child and taught me how to live in the forest. 4 There's this animal that, for some reason, has been following me at a distance for years. 5 A "blood" brother or sister that I haven't seen for a long time, but for whom I still feel great empathy. 6 The valiant leader of my people, who saved my life and to whom I owe everything. d6 Flaw 1 I often start sniffing the air or the clothes of those who pass near me. 2 I never wash myself. Why should I? 3 I won't help those who can't defend themselves, nor anyone who's not a companion of mine. 4 I've never cut my hair and I like to let various creatures live in it. I also never shave, of course. 5 I guess my sense of decency could be pretty questionable for peasants and commoners. 6 I eat raw meat, and that's just one of my peculiar eating habits.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

