# Royal

**description**: You were born to a life of luxury and comfort. You are a member of the royal family who will inherit the throne of a small kingdom or city-state with an absolute monarchy. As a result, your childhood was pampered compared to the great majority of people. Although that doesn't mean you stayed for the long run. Perhaps you left your royal family in favor of a life elsewhere. If so, what spurred you on to leave everything behind? Or maybe you stayed, taking control of your family's power. If that's the case, what went wrong? Why are you adventuring now? Royal Title What is your position among your family? d6 Title 1 King/Queen 2 Prince/Princess 3 Extended Royal Family 4 Illegitimate Scion 5 Honorary Royal Family member 6 Royal consort Skill Proficiencies: Performance and Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: Choose two of the following: calligrapher's supplies, disguise kit, forgery kit, one musical Instrument or painter's supplies Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: Fine clothes with your family crest on it, signet ring, a scroll of pedigree, perfume, sealing wax, a bar of soap and a purse containing 30 gp Feature: Bannermen You have the service of three bannermen loyal to the crown. These bannermen are members of noble families intrinsically tied with your own. Your bannermen are people in positions of power, nobles with remarkable resources. They will not accompany you in combat or follow orders, but they will be inclined to help you through either monetary means, information or other valuable items that might define the trade of their family. Suggested Characteristics All royals are born and raised under circumstances that most people will never experience. How did the luxury, comfort, responsibility, power and expectations of being a royal shape your character? The one thing that no royal can truly claim, is a simple life with simple problems. d8 Personality Trait 1 I don't act like a Royal should, I would much rather be out there in the real world. 2 I secretly bring treats and supplies to prisoners in the dungeon who I felt were unjustly incarcerated by my family. 3 I brag about the great feats of my ancestors, as well as my position, to my peers and people I find attractive. 4 I care little for the common people. They are there to pay taxes and that's it. 5 I sneaked out of the castle to see singers and other performers in taverns when I was young. 6 I have a secret identity as a vigilante, doing what the royal guard should do. Minus the corruption, of course. 7 I often try to make conversation with commoners, trying to understand their perspective. 8 I sometimes use my title to intimidate people into giving me goods. d6 Ideal 1 Guardian. I only wish to protect my kingdom. It means everything to me. (Any) 2 Keeper of Order. It is my duty as a royal to make sure that my family's legacy and traditions endure through the ages. (Lawful) 3 Royal Right. I am free to do as I wish. After all, who has the right to stop me? (Chaotic) 4 Benevolent. No matter what, the well-being of all my subjects is the most important thing. (Good) 5 Indifferent. My place as a royal is happenstance. I don't feel as if it makes me more special than anyone else. (Neutral) 6 Tyrant. I am above the peasantry, their lives are little more than resources for me to do with as I wish. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I inherited the throne from my parents when I was but a child. I wish I had gotten to know my parents better. 2 I spent most of my life within the castle grounds, never seeing beyond those pristine stone walls. 3 I had a mentor, who was more like family than my own parents. They died protecting me from a plot against my life. 4 I met a famous adventurer while I was young. They inspired me to go beyond the cushy life in this castle. 5 My siblings and cousins have tried to end my life for a chance at the crown. They will receive no mercy. 6 I met a peasant child who became my greatest friend and confidant. They are responsible for my adventurous spirit. d6 Flaw 1 There's a humiliating secret in my upbringing that I'd never talk about, if possible. 2 My kingdom's treasures are much too valuable. I cannot trust anyone to protect them properly. 3 I am much too naive to be a decent politician. 4 My kingdom is the most powerful. We don't need to rely on anyone else. 5 I never completed the obligatory high education of a royal. 6 If I could, I'd sell my position as a royal to the nearest poor bastard. Let them handle all that nonsense! 

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

