# Runagate

**description**: You grew up in a society of evil. You learned to torture, to kill. But there was a moment where you just couldn't stand it anymore. Or maybe it was just a moment of opportunity, the chance to escape that you had been looking for so long. You deserted your home and your culture, leaving everything behind but what you could carry on your body. Harsh as your new life might be, it is better than what you came from. But not everything is good: You know your former friends and family will not simply let you go. You are hunted, and you are aware of it. Not only do you prefer to hide your true identity, you also choose friends that can defend themselves. One day, facing your past might become inevitable. Until then, you have to grow strong, and find companions willing and capable to help you. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Intimidation Tool Proficiencies and Languages: Disguise Kit, and either Thieves' Tools or Forgery Kit Equipment: A pouch containing 5 gp A set of commoner's clothes A Dungeoneer's Pack or an Explorer's Pack A forged document or signet ring identifying you as a fake persona Gut feeling: You're always on the lookout for people hunting you, while disguising yourself in public many times. This trained you in seeing through disguises and deceits. You often have a hunch when something is "off" about a person, whether they are disguised, lie to you or just generally might pose a threat to you. Suggested characteristics: You cannot stand evil and cruelty. If you don't fight it, you at least try to get away from it. At the same time, you were forced to do horrible things in the past, and if you feel pressured enough, your old habits might resurface. You're trying your best to be a better person, but it's not always easy. Some might also call you a bit paranoid - but is it really paranoia when you know you're hunted? Traits Cruelty exists not only in evil societies. I notice even small signs of abuse and neglect, and I despise what I see. I have seen - and inflicted - so much suffering that I feel I have to outweigh these experiences. That's why I care so deeply, especially for those who can't defend themselves. I have lost all friends and family from the past. I might be cautious about letting someone new in, but once I do, my emotional bonds are strong. To me, there are only three kinds of people: The ones I trust, the ones I consider harmless, and the ones that are potentially dangerous. I always keep an eye out for the great dangers - to me and to the entire world. I've been on the run for so long, running away has become my daily life. I have turned my escape into a game. I love leaving false trails, confusing potential pursuers and proving to myself I can get away from anyone. I have a problem with people in power. Even if I'm smart enough to not show it outright, I do believe the desire for power stems from a desire to harm or utilize others. Ideals Liberation. Those who can't defend themselved need to be liberated from those who harm them. (Good) Strict rules. Everyone has the capacity to do horrible things. Only the strict enforcement of rules keeps people from harming each other. (Lawful) Disobedience. A lot of evil stems from good people obeying evil ones. Disobedience breaks the power of malicious rulers. (Chaotic) Survival. I've done bad things to survive. I'm not above doing it again. And if I'm totally honest... I even enjoy it a little. (Evil) Free Choice. I know how horrible it is to be forced to act in a way that doesn't match your beliefs and feelings. The freedom of choice, even if it leads to evil, is my highest ideal. (Neutral) Inner healing. Most of my scars aren't visible - they are part of my mind and soul. But I'm on a journey of healing, and I'll help anyone who's on the same journey. (Any) Bonds There was someone who helped me escape my home. I swore I will come back for them. In my old life, there was one person in particular responsible for a lot of my suffering. I'll have my revenge when I'm ready to face them again. Someone escaped together with me, but at a moment of danger, they betrayed me to save themselves. I'm going to find them and make them pay. When I found my way into civilization again, there was one person in particular who helped me, and who knows my secrets. I would die for that person. I found philosophical books from a particular author that helped me heal and find myself. To me, this author is an idol, and it would be a dream to meet that person. When I came into more civilized lands, I needed a fake identity. The criminal contact that helped me became a friend, and one of the few people who know my secret. Flaws When meeting someone new, I'm very cautious. I can play friendly roles, but I don't open up my true self easily. I can't stand by when I see cruelty and abuse of power. The need to do something against it can feel overwhelming sometimes. I need to numb myself. The memories of the past are so painful that I've become addicted to alcohol, gambling or similar things. I can be ruthless. I've done horrible things in the past. I prefer not to, but if necessary, I can switch off my mercy. I'm guilty. I can't stand thinking about the things I've done, and the feelings of shame and guilt accompany me every day. I'm socially awkward. I've grown up in a society I now reject, but I'm just beginning to learn how to act around people in other societies.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

