# Rural Farmland Town - Commoner

**description**: Though many may think the city is the embodiment of civilization, rural farmland tends to better reflect the organizing power of people and governments. Whether tilling the fields of gentle plains or clearing forests to make use of nutrient-rich soil, a flat, even field represents the taming of the wilds. Food is the core of any prosperous civilization, and without fertile land entire empires quickly crumble. Food is a force that can both unify and stratify people; all must eat, but the luxury of exotic spices, fruits, or vegetables sets the wealthy apart. Poets exalt the serenity of the quiet countryside, the whisper of grass and grain in the wind, and the tranquility of hard work tilling the soil. Some governmental officials move to rural areas for the peace and quiet. Some even think themselves rustic despite their servants and elegant mansions. This tranquility is sometimes temporary, however: armies may march across fields and plains, destroying grass and crops, churning these symbols of civilization into broken sod. If a natural disaster tears through isolated countryside, roads become impassable, crops fail, and the land becomes wild. The farmers suffer the most when wars, disasters, and governmental neglect destroy their livelihood. Farmers tame the land and carry the weight of civilization on their backs. They keenly understand the balance between nature and humanity. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one tool, mounts. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes or unremarkable garb, staff, any one tool, and 1 gp. Suggested Feats: Brawler’s Edge, Laborer’s Endurance, Genuine Idealist. Background Feature: Worldly Wisdom As a resident of a particular region, you have the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your place of origin. You can name major families, prominent merchants, and other leaders in the region as well as their respective positions and allegiances. You know the layout and local residents in the neighborhood where you grew up or where you live now, along with any unusual features, shortcuts, or hidden wonders in your home region. You have knowledge of the impact of crime, poverty, or political unrest that you have experienced in your homeland. You know the trade that you grew up around extremely well, even if you do not practice it yourself. This might be woodcraft, hunting, or fishing in a rural village, commerce or artisanry in a bustling city, agriculture in a farming town, or sailing in a seaside port, to name only a few examples. You can always figure out where to go to get work when in your home region or a similar area.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

