# Scholar

**description**: You specialize in a particular field of knowledge which you’ve spent much of your early years studying. Knowledge is the key to the mysteries of the universe and you strive to learn enough to become a master in your studied field. Skill Proficiencies: Astrophysics, Lore Languages: Two of your choice. Equipment: personal digital library, basic clothes, 75 cubil. Field of Study Every scholar has a specialized field of study. The following table lists some examples. d8 Origin d8 Origin 1 Scientist 5 Teacher 2 Bio-technician 6 Data Researcher 3 Celestial Cartographer 7 Professional Student 4 Writer 8 Travel Expert Feature: Legwork You know how to find information, even when it’s been buried deep within old data files or even the ancient tomes of generations past. If you can’t find that, then you know someone that can. You can use this to your advantage whenever you’re attempting to learn details or lore on a particular subject. What you uncover is at the discretion of the GM depending on the information’s obscure nature or level of importance to the campaign. Suggested Characteristics Many scholars define their worth by their level of expertise and the ability to apply their exhaustive studies whenever such a need arises. Knowledge is their most valued resource. Some wish to attain it for the sake of having it, while others may have greater goals toward which they strive to achieve by learning. d8 Personality Trait 1 I often use complicated words so people find it hard to understand me. 2 I consistently brag that I am an invaluable font of information. 3 I tend to patiently explain anything and everything to those who I believe to be less intelligent. 4 There’s nothing more exciting to me than solving a good mystery or puzzle. 5 I reserve my opinions until I’ve heard all sides of an issue. 6 I speak.. very.. slowly.. to those I think are not as bright as me, which is usually everyone. 7 I have no social graces. I feel awkward and out of place almost everywhere. 8 I’m convinced people are only using me for my knowledge and insight. d6 Ideal 1 Knowledge . Power and self-enlightenment can only be attained through knowledge. (Neutral) 2 Beauty . Everything can be beautiful to something else. It is more important to learn why they are beautiful. (Good) 3 Logic . You must never let your emotions get in the way of pure logical thinking. (Lawful) 4 Power . The path to ultimate power above all others is rooted in knowledge. (Evil) 5 Chance . We will never learn the rules that govern the unknown until we’re willing to break all of our old rules. (Chaotic) 6 Self-Improvement . Knowledge is the key to the betterment of one’s self. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I will do anything to protect my pupils or co-workers. 2 I’ve discovered a long lost secret which must never fall into the wrong hands. 3 I manage a university or center of learning. 4 I am recording my entire life’s work to be passed down to the next generation. 5 I have been searching my entire life for the answer to a specific question. 6 I did some unsavory things for the knowledge I now possess. I hope to use it to redeem myself. d6 Flaw 1 I’m easily distracted by the promise of information. 2 I often put myself in grave danger for the chance to learn something I consider important. 3 Forbidden knowledge can sometimes require making great sacrifices, including innocents. 4 I tend to take complicated paths to reach simple solutions. 5 I have no filter when I speak, which often results in others being insulted. 6 Secrets are meant to be shared with someone.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

