# Scion of Sin

**description**: You understand how evil works and what kind of impact it can have on people for generations to come. After all, your ancestors brought evil to the land. Your upbringing has been heavily shaped by what your ancestors did. Regardless of the details, everyone had a hard life where you grew up and they blame your family as the cause of their troubles. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, History, or Intimidation Tool Proficiencies: One of disguise kit, forgery kit, or thieves’ tools. Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of fine clothes, a tool you are proficient in, and a purse containing 20 gp Sinful Upbringing Work with your DM to come up with an appropriate awful act that your family is responsible for, and how much power they still wield today. Choose or randomly determine your parents’ sin: D8 Parents’ Sin 1 My family has ruled as tyrants for generations. 2 One of my parents assassinated a benevolent queen, plunging the kingdom into anarchy. 3 Sometimes magical experiments go wrong and blight the land. My parents should have cared. 4 It turns out the family business was running the thieves’ guild, preying on everyone. 5 Daddy made a deal with an archfiend to seize power. 6 My parents ran a guild and squeezed workers’ pay. 7 My parents brought a cult to town, and the cult took over. 8 Some foolish ancestors taunted an evil dragon. It has stayed around to rule us ever since. Upbringing in Shadow After establishing what your family has done, think about how your character feels about it. The scion of sin is shaped by the past and the difficulties of establishing an independent identity and reputation. Choose or randomly determine your reason for adventuring: D6 Why Adventure? 1 I want to rebel against my upbringing, and the best option is to be a do-gooder adventurer. 2 My homeland was destroyed, so I will risk my life to leave. 3 There are too many painful memories at home. Adventure keeps those thoughts at bay. 4 I learned setting out on my own is the only way to make a reputation to rise in the ranks. 5 My parents let loose a powerful evil that killed them. I will find a way to defeat it. 6 I was raised away from home. Now I’m returning to see if the evil rumors are true. Whatever your ancestors did is well known and infamous throughout the land. Think about whether you are immediately recognizable as a result. Do you need to walk the streets in disguise? If your family has a coat of arms, symbol, or other visual markers, would you ever wear them? Lastly, if your parents or some evil they spawned is still alive, talk to your DM about possible characters who could enter the campaign. These connections help establish your family and their evil legacy as features of the world of the campaign. Feature: I Speak Underling Your knowledge of how evil organizations work lets you gain access to the inner workings of such organizations. You can easily learn who the movers and shakers are, how to best approach them, and what their primary nefarious plots are. Unless you show other intentions, these groups will treat you as a valuable potential recruit. Suggested Characteristics Growing up in the shadow of evildoers who happen to be your family is a very different lifestyle than most experience. The personality of a scion of sin tends to be shaped by seeing the inner workings of how power is used and by living around suffering. Some become relatively detached from society and focus on their own survival, while others adopt very strong moral codes. D8 Personality Trait 1 I hate being around people, because it reminds me of what my family did. 2 No one knows the difference between right and wrong like I do! 3 My hands are so dirty already. I must solve issues myself. 4 People will do my bidding. Sometimes they are even aware of it. 5 I can’t trust anyone with wealth or power. 6 If you insult me, I will not rest until I bring you ruin. 7 It isn’t worth caring what happens to most people. Not anymore. 8 Others will betray me in the end, so I must be self-reliant. D6 Ideal 1 Redemption. I saw so much evil that I must help people. (Good) 2 Independence. I must make my own name, separate from my family. (Chaotic) 3 Hierarchy. Societies crumble unless people know who their betters are. (Lawful) 4 Wanderlust. I want to live where no one knows my face or name. (Any) 5 Power. If I can gain more power, I won’t have to listen to others. (Evil) 6 Vengeance. My parents have caused so much pain that anything I do to stop them is justified. (Evil) D6 Bond 1 I need to rebel against my family by any means necessary. 2 Someone took over from my family, sullied their name, and they will pay. 3 My tutors were oppressed by my family, and I just found out. 4 A so-called hero stood against my ancestors, and I must learn why. 5 All I have from my ancestors is a history book I will never part with. 6 I am in love with someone working against my family. D6 Flaw 1 I am squeamish around the sight of blood. 2 I have an insatiable appetite for carnal pleasures. 3 I struggle to maintain my composure in the face of evil. 4 Everyone is talking about me behind my back. I’m sure of it! 5 Gossip is natural, and I refuse to see anything wrong with it. 6 What’s a budget? I always got a pony when I asked for one!

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

