# Seafarer

**description**: Whether from humble beginnings in a small fishing village or a noble knight of the waves from the city of Atlantis, you have sailed across the Aegean sea, the sea of Crete, and even through the sea of monsters. All seafarers respect and fear the sea, and take great pains to ensure they have paid proper tribute to the gods and spirits of the ocean before a voyage. Seafarers play a unique role in the social hierarchy and economy of the world. Are you a navy officer? A merchant trader? A ruthless pirate? Why have you set foot on land? Why now? Was your ship destroyed, by storm, god, or pirate? Do you wish to return to your place of birth? Whatever the reason, you've decided to leave your old life behind, at least for now. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, Religion Tool Proficiencies: Navigator's Tools, Water Vehicles Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A spyglass, 50 feet of silk rope, a set of dice, a lucky charm or holy symbol, a set of common clothes, and a pouch containing 10gp. Feature: Sea Brotherhood The Sea Brotherhood is a group of priests, druids, sailors and shamans who have a strong presence across much of the ocean, and significant influence over trade. You are a low-ranking member, but still have enough power to sway minor officials, or intimidate other sailors by invoking their name. By using this connection you are able to acquire information in port towns and fishing villages about rumors, tales of pirates or travelers from other lands and about remarkable vessels and crews that may be on shore leave. Additionally, you can secure passage in a vessel in exchange for labor onboard. Variant: Atlantean Raised in the undersea city of Atlantis, you are practically from another world. Perhaps you are Atlantean royalty, or a criminal in exile. Perhaps you have returned to the surface from which you were lost, taken, or abandoned as a child. Whatever your past, and for whatever reason, you're living on the surface now. How are you dealing with that? Potential Hook: Cursed On one of your voyages, you failed to pay adequate tribute to the God of the Sea, or earned the ire of a sea witch. You have been cursed, and the sea is no longer safe for you. To return to the ocean you must appease the gods, or slay the witch. Seafarer Spells Prerequisite: Spellcasting or Pact Magic feature For you, the Spells on the Seafarer Spells table are added to the spell list of your Spellcasting class. (If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these Spells are added to all of them.) Spell Level Spell Cantrip Druidcraft, Shape Water 1st Beast Bond, Fog Cloud 2nd Augury, Gust of Wind 3rd Water Breathing, Water Walk 4th Control Water, Secret Chest 5th Commune with Nature, Control Winds Your magic, earned from study in the libraries of Atlantis or granted to you by the God of the Sea, is blue or white, and summons small gusts of wind, or faint sprays of salt water. Suggested Characteristics A sailor is likely to have been all over the world, met dozens if not hundreds of people, and picked up more than a few strange quirks or superstitions. d8 Personality Trait 1 I prefer my parrot's company over any person I've ever met. 2 I don't care if the ship is covered in filth and crawling with rats as long as we've got a full stock of rum and plenty of coin. 3 I fear the gods of the ocean, and must pray, sacrifice, and petition them for safety before each voyage. 4 I always tell tales of monsters that lurk in the deepest darkest waters. 5 I make sure we have the best provisions, a good meal at sea is worth more to me than gold. 6 I keep to the crow's nest. I don't like others. 7 If even one thing is out of line or not squared away, I will scream and bellow until it's made shipshape. 8 I take great pains to hide the fact that I can't read. d6 Ideal 1 Honor. I always follow the unwritten code of the sea. (Law) 2 People. A ship's only as good as her crew, and I'll always help anyone who needs it. (Good) 3 Anger. I hate anyone in a fancy ship, rich people should stay on the land. (Chaotic) 4 Greed. Everything on the sea belongs to me. I just have to get my hands on it. (Evil) 5 Money. The only thing I'm interested in is coin. (Neutral) 6 Escape. The sea gave me a new life. I'm never going back to the old one. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My crew are my family, I would die for them. 2 I owe my life to the captain who took me in and taught me a trade. 3 I am a humble servant of the gods. They must be respected, or we shall all suffer their wrath. 4 A crewmate once saved me from drowning, I failed to do the same for them. 5 I'd rather go down with my ship than abandon my crew. 6 I only sail so I can send decent money back to my family. d6 Flaw 1 I love a fight, and have made enemies in every port. 2 I relish danger, and always sail into the storm, both literally and metaphorically. 3 I don't like or respect anyone who lives on land. 4 I gamble compulsively. 5 I am too fond of rum. 6 My greatest secret is also my greatest shame: I can't swim.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

