# Seer

**description**: The stars guide all footsteps on the path. Seers are rare individuals endowed with the gift to see beyond the mundane veil cloaking the world to the truth illuminated by those stars. Cause and effect run in scattered lines to a seer’s eyes, linking individuals and events seemingly unrelated to the casual observer. Only a fool discounts the word of one who sees the twists of fate. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Perception Tool Proficiencies: One gaming set of your choice (cards, dice, or some other divination tool) Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A gaming set of your choice, a token of appreciation from a past client, a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 5 gp Feature: Glimpse of Fortune Using a minor method of divination, you are able to see glimpses of a target’s future. You must spend one hour in conversation with the subject and consultation with your divination method. At the end of this time you can offer insight into the subject’s possible future. These details are always vague, but the reading affords you the chance to gain insight into your subject and possibly enter their good graces. After giving a reading, you can expect a client to be more relaxed and willing to favorably consider any proposal you make (treat them as one category more favorable for purposes of social interaction). Additionally, you can receive minor favors or consideration from past subjects in a variety of locations. Assume you can find at least one friendly contact in a city that you have spent at least some time in the past. Suggested Characteristics Seers are a disparate lot. Some embrace their gift and seek to share their knowledge, while others fear the unbidden insights they receive. Seers are resigned to the whim of happenstance, and they see design where others would see coincidence. d8 Personality Trait 1 I see signs in every little detail of life. 2 Unexpected events rarely faze me and sometimes feel oddly familiar. 3 I try to ensure that everyone around me pays attention to what I see. 4 I compulsively play with a card, coin, or other tool of my trade. 5 My optimism never wavers. I’ve seen that things will turn out well in the end, one way or another. 6 While I enjoy sharing my insights, I never give them away for free. 7 My glimpses of the future frighten me and I try to avoid them at all costs. 8 When a vision is upon me, I have little control over what I say. d6 Ideal 1 Aspiration. I’ve seen a hint of greatness in my future, and I work hard to achieve it. (Any) 2 Manipulation. My gifts give me the perfect leverage to move others to my tune. (Evil) 3 Freedom. Knowledge of what may come allows for greater choice. (Chaotic) 4 Serenity. I seek fulfillment with whatever I see in the future. (Neutral) 5 Truth. I am a servant of the truth, and I will share it for good or ill. (Lawful) 6 Compassion. My gifts can bring comfort to the suffering and peace to the troubled. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I told the fortune of the man who then destroyed my family, but I ignored the warning. I must find him and put it right. 2 My grandmother passed a token to me when she explained our gift of the sight. It’s my most prized possession. 3 I told one fortune whose meaning I still can’t understand, but I know it has great importance. 4 My family travels the land, and I send most of the money I earn to them. 5 I told the fortune of the person I loved, and that led them to the arms of another. 6 I’m driven to read the fortune of powerful people. d6 Flaw 1 I saw a truth once that I refused to speak, and tragedy was the result. It haunts me to this day. 2 I have terrible nightmares about the dark futures I’ve glimpsed. 3 No matter how I try, no one ever believes my fortunes. 4 I can’t resist embellishing a fortune to try to earn a few more coins. 5 I loathe charlatans and tricksters who take advantage of those who seek their fortunes, and I do what I can to discredit them. 6 I’m terribly jealous of any positive fortune I read, since I can read any palm but my own.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

