# Selesnya Initiate

**description**: You are a member of a blessed community, built on the ideals of harmony. Here, nature and civilization coexist peacefully, living and growing in accordance with the will of the Worldsoul, Mat’Selesnya. As a member of the Selesnya Conclave, you are surrounded by people and other creatures who share your worldview and your longing for deeper spiritual communion with the world, and you have a fervent desire to share the joy you have experienced with Ravnica. Along with the rest of the conclave, you are committed to resisting the ambitions of the other guilds—with military force if necessary. Skill Proficiencies: Nature, Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools or one musical instrument Languages: Choose one of Elvish, Loxodon, or Sylvan Equipment: A Selesnya insignia, a healer’s kit, robes, a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 5 gp ( Azorius 1-zino coins) Feature: Conclave’s Shelter As a member of the Selesnya Conclave , you can count on your guild mates to provide shelter and aid. You and your companions can find a place to hide or rest in any Selesnya enclave in the city, unless you have proven to be a danger to them. The members of the enclave will shield you from the law or anyone else searching for you, though they will not risk their lives in this effort. In addition, as a guild member you can receive free healing and care at a Selesnya enclave, though you must provide any material components needed for spells. Selesnya Guild Spells Prerequisite: Spellcasting or Pact Magic class feature For you, the spells on the Selesnya Guild Spells table are added to the spell list of your spellcasting class. (If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these spells are added to all of them.) Selesnya Guild Spells Spell Level Spells Cantrip druidcraft, friends 1st aid, animal friendship, charm person 2nd animal messenger, calm emotions, warding bond 3rd plant growth, speak with plants 4th aura of life, conjure minor elementals 5th awaken, commune with nature Members of the Selesnya Conclave refer to their magic as “doruvati,” a Sylvan word meaning “gift.” When you use these gifts of Mat’Selesnya, graceful swirls of green and silver light dance in the air around you, and phantasmal green leaves might waft through the air. A sensation of gentle warmth and the smell of spring flowers or autumn leaves might accompany your spells. Suggested Characteristics Most members of the Selesnya Conclave are true believers—the tight-knit community allows little room for the cynical or disillusioned. They are spiritual, empathetic, and generally peaceful—unless roused to action. Their flaws and bonds alike grow naturally from their close ties to the community. Personality Traits d8 Personality Trait 1 I never raise my voice or lose my temper. 2 I feel the pains and joys of everyone around me, friend or foe. 3 I would rather make a friend than thwart an enemy. 4 I’m always straining to peer into another reality that seems to be just beyond my senses. 5 I’m uneasy if I can’t see plants growing or feel soil beneath my feet. 6 Seeing illness or injury in any creature saddens me. 7 I have much to be proud of, but I am still just one strand in the grand, interwoven tapestry of life. 8 Nature offers rich and abundant metaphors for understanding the complexities of life. Ideals d6 Ideal 1 Guild. My guild is all that really matters. (Any) 2 Harmony. Nothing is more beautiful than voices and actions aligned in common purpose. (Good) 3 Order. Like a well-pruned tree, society thrives when everything is kept in good order. (Lawful) 4 Life. Preserving life and nature is always a worthwhile endeavor. (Good) 5 Humility. Ambition and pride are the roots of strife. (Good) 6 Evangelism. When all have joined the Selesnya Conclave , Ravnica will finally know peace. (Any) Bonds d6 Bond 1 I would give my life in the defense of the small enclave where I first encountered Mat’Selesnya. 2 I love beasts and plants of all kinds, and am loath to harm them. 3 A healer nursed me to recovery from a mortal illness. 4 I’ll sing the invitation of Mat’Selesnya with my dying breath. 5 I cherish a leaf from Vitu-Ghazi that changes color with the seasons, even though it is no longer attached to the tree. 6 Every member of the conclave is my kin, and I would fight for any one of them. Flaws d6 Flaw 1 I’m terrified of getting into a fight where my side is outnumbered. 2 I assume that people mean well until they prove otherwise. 3 I enjoy comfort and quiet, and prefer to avoid extra effort. 4 I have a fierce temper that doesn’t reflect the inner calm I seek. 5 I’m convinced that everyone else in the conclave has a deeper connection to the Worldsoul than I do. 6 I’m trying to atone for the life of crime I led before I joined the Selesnya , but I find it hard to give up my bad habits.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Guildmasters' Guide to Ravnica

