# Sentry

**description**: In your youth, the defense of the city, the community, the caravan, or your patron was how you earned your coin. You might have been trained by an old, grizzled city watchman, or you might have been pressed into service by the local magistrate for your superior skills, size, or intellect. However you came to the role, you excelled at defending others. You have a nose for trouble, a keen eye for spotting threats, a strong arm to back it up, and you are canny enough to know when to act. Most importantly, though, you were a peace officer or a protector and not a member of an army which might march to war. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Perception Tool Proficiencies: One type of gaming set Languages: One language of your choice Equipment: A set of dice or deck of cards, a shield bearing your previous employer’s symbol, a set of common clothes, a hooded lantern, a signal whistle, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp Specialization Each person or location that hires a sentry comes with its own set of unique needs and responsibilities. As a sentry, you fulfilled one of these unique roles. Choose a specialization or roll a d6 and consult the table below to define your expertise as a sentry. d6 Specialization 1 City or gate watch 2 Bodyguard or jailor 3 Caravan guard 4 Palace or judicial sentry 5 Shop guard 6 Ecclesiastical or temple guard Feature: Comrades in Arms The knowing look from the caravan guard to the city gatekeeper or the nod of recognition between the noble’s bodyguard and the district watchman—no matter the community, city, or town, the guards share a commonality of purpose. When you arrive in a new location, you can speak briefly with the gate guards, local watch, or other community guardians to gain local knowledge. This knowledge could be information, such as the most efficient routes through the city, primary vendors for a variety of luxury goods, the best (or worst) inns and taverns, the primary criminal elements in town, or the current conflicts in the community. Suggested Characteristics You’re a person who understands both patience and boredom, as a guard is always waiting for something to happen. More often than not, sentries hope nothing happens because something happening usually means something has gone wrong. A life spent watching and protecting, acting in critical moments, and learning the details of places and behaviors; all of these help shape the personality of the former sentry. Some claim you never stop being a guard, you just change what you protect. d8 Personality Trait 1 I’ve seen the dregs of society and nothing surprises me anymore. 2 I know where to look to spot threats lurking around a corner, in a glance, and even in a bite of food or cup of drink. 3 I hate standing still and always keep moving. 4 My friends know they can rely on me to stand and protect them. 5 I resent the rich and powerful; they think they can get away with anything. 6 A deception of any sort marks you as untrustworthy in my mind. 7 Stopping lawbreakers taught me the best ways to skirt the law. 8 I never take anything at face-value. d6 Ideal 1 Greed. Threats to my companions only increase my glory when I protect them from it. (Evil) 2 Perception. I watch everyone, for threats come from every rank or station. (Neutral) 3 Duty. The laws of the community must be followed to keep everyone safe. (Lawful) 4 Community. I am all that stands between my companions and certain doom. (Good) 5 Determination. To truly protect others, you must sometimes break the law. (Chaotic) 6 Practicality. I require payment for the protection or service I provide. (Any) d6 Bond 1 My charge is paramount; if you can’t protect your charge, you’ve failed. 2 I was once saved by one of my fellow guards. Now I always come to my companions’ aid, no matter what the threat. 3 My oath is unbreakable; I’d rather die first. 4 There is no pride equal to the accomplishment of a successful mission. 5 I stand as a bulwark against those who would damage or destroy society, and society is worth protecting. 6 I know that as long as I stand with my companions, things can be made right. d6 Flaw 1 Sometimes I may overindulge in a guilty pleasure, but you need something to pass time. 2 I can’t just sit quietly next to someone. I’ve got to fill the silence with conversation to make good company. 3 I’m not very capable in social situations. I’d rather sit on the sidelines and observe. People make me nervous. 4 I have a tough time trusting strangers and new people. You don’t know their habits and behaviors; therefore, you don’t know their risk. 5 There is danger all around us, and only the foolish let their guard down. I am no fool, and I will spot the danger. 6 I believe there’s a firm separation between task and personal time. I don’t do other people’s work when I’m on my own time. If you want me, hire me.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

