# Seppun Family - Imperial Court

**description**: The Seppun family can trace its origins to the very dawn of the Empire, and their founder, a wise-woman and diviner called Seppun, was said to have been Hantei’s first follower and friend in the Mortal Realm. Seppun was instrumental to Hantei’s ascension, helping him navigate the politics of the region and attain power. She also stood as his bodyguard, protecting him from numerous physical threats over the years. This devotion has continued ever since, leading the Seppun to become the foremost defenders of the Emperor and the group charged with security of the Imperial City. They are always prepared to fight to protect the Emperor. To facilitate carrying out their duty, the Seppun have established two basic types of protectors: the Palace Guard, or Seppun Honor Guard, and the Hidden Guard. The Palace Guard are among the most accomplished warriors in the Empire, and dedicate their martial arts and security training to protecting the Imperial line. The Hidden Guard, on the other hand, is made up of ritualists skilled in warding against the many supernatural threats to the Emperor. Using astrology and powerful invocations, they are capable of predicting and eliminating many threats before they even come to pass. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, any one mystic implement or tool of subterfuge. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak, sign, read, and write Courtly Rokugani, an archaic version of the language used in many old texts and in some ceremonies. Equipment: Resplendent regalia, wakizashi, calligraphy set, any one mystic implement or tool of subterfuge, and 12 gp. Background Feature: Heights of Power You grew up in the Imperial Court, a place both perilous for its intrigues and oddly separated from the dangers of the rest of the world, granting you the following benefits: You have a general awareness of the politics within the Imperial Capital. You can name Imperial family heads, ranking bureaucrats and other leaders, and you know their respective positions and allegiances. You know Imperial history quite well, particularly as it pertains to the deeds of the Emperor and the Imperial families. You know proper etiquette and protocol in the Imperial Capital. You know certain secrets that have been elided from the official histories of Rokugan. Suggested Feats Life in the Imperial Court requires developing certain talents, especially as relates the art of persuasion, diplomacy, and intrigue. If making an Imperial Court character, the following feats could be good thematic choices: Fashionable, Watchful Ancestors, and Celestial Authority.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

