# Servant of the Jinn

**description**: You served in the court of a powerful jinn or a genie lord. For 1,001 days you lived at court on one of the elemental planes, traveling as part of their entourage and always at their beck and call. You might be a jinnborn, in which case it was your tribe’s patron jinn that called on you to serve, or you could be a Tamasheq nomad, or even a gnoll or minotaur. Whatever your heritage, you served your master as best you could and were changed forever by the otherworldly experience. Skill Proficiencies: Insight and one other skill determined by your role (see below) Tool Proficiencies: One type of tools, determined by your role (see below) Languages: Choose one from Aquan, Auran, Ignan or Terran, depending on your master’s elemental plane Equipment: A set of tools or a musical instrument (one of your choice), a scroll of commendation from your former master, a set of fine clothes, a small brass lamp, and a pouch containing 10 gp. Role During your time at court, you performed a specific role. Roll 1d8 or choose from the options in the table below to determine your responsibilities and the skill and tool proficiencies you learned while carrying them out. d8 Role Skill Tools 1 Advisor History Cartographer’s tools 2 Artist Perception Painter’s supplies 3 Chef Intimidation Cook’s utensils 4 Dancer Performance Disguise kit 5 Guard Athletics Gaming set (any one) 6 Falconer or Kennel Master Animal Handling Leatherworker’s tools 7 Musician Performance Musical instrument (any one) 8 Steward Persuasion Brewer’s supplies Feature: Marked by the Jinn Spending so long in the presence of the jinn or noble genies has left its mark on you. This mark isn’t noticeable to most creatures, but genies and elementals sense that you have spent time at the courts of the jinn and are favorably disposed toward you when you first interact with them. Your affinity for jinn and geniekind also makes it easier for you to identify their influence on the world. You have advantage on Intelligence checks or saving throws to recognize items and magic created by genies and to see through their illusions and trickery. Suggested Characteristics The wonders witnessed by the servants of the jinn often shape their outlook on life once they return to their homes in the Southlands. Time spent on the elemental planes can create powerful bonds or lead to unusual quirks. d8 Personality Trait 1 I always bow deeply to show respect to those in authority. 2 I miss the hustle and bustle and splendor of the court. 3 You hear a lot of strange things when you’re standing on guard outside the seraglio. 4 Cutting corners just creates more corners. Do it properly or don’t do it all. 5 I worked for three days with only an hour’s sleep to make sure my master’s party was the most sensational ever thrown. I’d do it all over again in a heartbeat. 6 You can get away with a lot if you flash a winning smile while you do it. 7 Life was much easier when I had someone constantly telling me what to do. 8 Be careful what you wish for, particularly when an efreeti is the one granting the wish. d6 Ideal 1 Professionalism. I take pride in my appearance and how I conduct myself in public. (Lawful) 2 Freedom. Never again will I serve another. From now on, I answer to no one. (Chaotic) 3 Respect. All people, regardless of their station in life, deserve respect. (Good) 4 Greed. I will stop at nothing to have my own wondrous palace floating high above the clouds. (Evil) 5 Fellowship. The bonds formed between comrades when you serve together under a cruel and demanding master will never be broken. (Any) 6 Duty. It is our duty to work diligently to make something of our lives. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 One day I will return to the City of Brass and bring my favorite hell hound home. 2 I will treasure the copper hookah my master gave me for my dedicated service until the day I die. 3 I yearn to look once more upon the glowing gemstones that light the tunnels through the Plane of Earth to the magnificent palace of the jinn. 4 I tasted the fruit served by Sultan Hajani the Benevolent at the Oasis of Figs once and will never forget it. 5 Although it is hard to be this far away from them, everything I do is for my family back home. 6 My true love still serves the jinn at the Court of Many-Hued Exquisite Corals. I’m determined to find a way to free them from service so we can be together. d6 Flaw 1 I obey those in authority without thinking. 2 1,001 days of service has made me an expert shirker. 3 I picked up expensive tastes in food, drink, and clothes at court and am never satisfied. 4 I am incredibly indiscreet and can’t be trusted with a secret. 5 Rich people don’t notice if a few of their things go missing. 6 Life is very dull if you don’t roll the dice.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Southlands Player's Guide

