# Shiba Family - Phoenix Clan

**description**: The Shiba family descends from the divine sibling Shiba and provides the Phoenix with a champion, but it bent the knee to the Isawa family early in its history and has dutifully served it ever since. The Shiba focus on keeping the Phoenix Clan safe and rely first and foremost on diplomacy before resorting to force. They are expected to be learned in scholarly ways as well as in the warrior arts, and they understand the ritualists they serve better than do most families dedicated to battle. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Traveling clothes, wakizashi, any one artisan tool, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Spiritual Knowledge You were raised in the Phoenix Clan with access to some of the most secretive and sacred lore in Rokugan, granting you the following benefits: You are familiar with the religious practices of Rokugan, such as the rites practiced by various priesthoods, the invocations of ritualists, the Teachings of Shinsei, and even the traditions that existed before the Empire’s foundation, such as the traditions of the Isawa and the ritual practices of the people who dwell in the Dawn Peaks. You know some of the most significant spirits that reside across the land from stories or perhaps even personal interaction. You have an instinctive feeling for when the spirits of a place have become imbalanced or disquieted. You know the names and locations of all major shrines in Rokugan. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Phoenix Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Shiba Guardian School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Shiba school of peacekeeping, make Strength and Constitution your highest ability scores, with Wisdom as your next priority. Begin in the bushi class, selecting the Protector archetype at 3rd level. Then take three levels of courtier, selecting the Diplomat archetype at 3rd level. Pick rhetorical flourishes that you can use to defuse tense situations and keep foes from attacking your allies. Divide the rest of your levels between bushi and courtier, or make a detour into pilgrim for several levels and select the Path of Justice to emphasize your character’s mystical studies.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

