# Shinjo Family - Unicorn Clan

**description**: The Shinjo are the core of the Unicorn, the clan of explorers who followed their founder Shinjo into the vast world beyond the Empire. They administrate and lead the Unicorn, working to keep all of the parts of the clan pulling together in unison. The education of members of the Shinjo family is broad-based—each scion is trained in scouting, hunting, and skirmishing, but also in diplomacy and governance. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, choose one other Charisma-based skill (Deception, Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or gaming set, mounts. Weapon Proficiencies: Hunting bow. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and Ujik. Equipment: Traveling clothes, dagger or wakizashi, hunting bow and quiver, any one artisan tool or gaming set, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Child of the Five Winds You were raised in the Unicorn Clan, granting you the Clan of Shinjo’s unique perspective on the world. You gain the following benefits: You have an idea of politics outside the borders of Rokugan, which types of governments rule foreign lands, major conflicts between other countries, and what type of foreign imports make their way into Rokugan. You know many basic facts of life about foreign lands, particularly the Burning Sands, the Ivory Kingdoms, and beyond from stories your family has passed down of your ancestors who traveled to those lands. You know at least some foreign words from numerous languages, such as Nehiri, Ivindi, Myantu, and Portuga. You are not fully conversant in these languages unless you select them as known languages, but you can often discern a bit of meaning from familiar words. You know the basics of mounted combat tactics, along with various other aspects of the proper handling and care of horses. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Unicorn Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Shinjo Outrider School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Shinjo school of scouting, make Dexterity and Wisdom your highest ability scores with Charisma as your next highest. Begin in the shinobi class, selecting the Saboteur archetype at 3rd for access to traps. Switch to the courtier class for three levels to unlock the Diplomat archetype to boost your skills as a leader. Then put the rest of your levels into bushi (choosing the Vanguard archetype for the Versatility of Form feature’s synergy with using arrows of different kinds) or shinobi to maximize your skills in the field.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

