# Shinomen Naga - Non-Human

**description**: Unlike human civilizations, naga societies can sleep for hundreds or perhaps even thousands of years, dreaming in their aquatic or subterranean cities as other species build empires that fall to dust. Although they do not yet know why, the naga who inhabit the Shinomen Forest collectively feel the pull of a great destiny that awaits them beyond the woods. The dream is broken, and at last, these naga prepare to rejoin the world outside. Naga rarely adorn themselves with clothing in the human sense, but that does not mean that they do not decorate themselves. Shinomen naga prefer instead to wear trinkets, jewels, and intricate segmented coverings made from seashells, coral, and worked metal. When in need of additional coverings, a long sash of sea silk, made from the beards of a unique species of freshwater clam, serves this purpose. Such clothing is always light and minimal, so as not to hinder movement or skin contact with the water. In recent times, the Rokugani manner of dress and armor has become a bit of a fashion interest among the naga of the Shinomen Forest, though adapting these clothes to serpentine form requires a skillful tailor. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool of your choice. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, River Speech, and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Any one artisan tool of your choice and 5 gp. Suggested Feats: Fashionable, Graceful Combatant, Survivalist’s Eye. Background Feature: Walker of Secret Ways You were raised among a culture that consists predominantly of nonhumans, and might not even be in the Mortal Realm. As such, you have a different way of understanding the world than most humans, granting you the following benefits: You know the history of your own culture and how it has interacted with other groups across the centuries. You know a great deal about passing through regions that human inhabitants of Rokugan generally view as impassable in relative safety, such as through the spirit realms, the Shadowlands, or the Shinomen Forest. You can identify the dangers and areas of safety in these places. You instinctively recognize the taboos of spirits and otherworldly beings when visiting their domains, though you do not necessarily have all the information needed to deal with them. You know about the various realms below, beside, and above, and can recognize the common markers of their inhabitants.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

