# Ship's Doctor

**description**: Aboard a ship, you must be prepared for anything. Whether exploring the far reaches of the ‘verse, where untold alien pathogens lurk, going to war in one of the great space fleets and staring down alien weapons, or simply dealing with the crew’s cybernetic implants going haywire, the ship’s doctor never knows what challenges they might face from day to day. Pragmatic out of necessity, but always seeking to provide the best possible care for their patients, shipboard medics are natural candidates to be made clerics of healing gods, and often possess an intellectual capacity well-suited to the demands of wizardry. Some, wishing to become self-sufficient in terms of potion supply, become interested in alchemy, while others make warlock pacts to gain more power with which to help more people. In this way, it's not uncommon for ships’ doctors to transition into a more intense adventuring life. Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, Medicine Tool Proficiencies: Alchemist’s supplies, herbalist’s kit Equipment: A healer’s kit, a book of physiology, a needle and string, a doctor's uniform, and a pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Xenobiology Having seen many strange things on your travels, you have developed an instinctive understanding of alien biologies. Whenever you encounter a creature you have never seen before, you are able to make a few observations and deductions about it, gaining an idea of how dangerous it could be, what its weaknesses might be, or how it would behave in response to a given stimulus. Medical Training By education, doctors tend to be experts in one branch of medicine, though serving on a ship means there is no one else to call on if something outside of their expertise should arise, so most ships’ doctors possess broad medical skills. Choose a specialty or roll on the table below. d8 Specialty 1 Infectious diseases 2 Neurosurgery 3 Alien lifeforms 4 Orthopedic surgery 5 Ophthalmology 6 Cardiothoracic surgery 7 Psychiatry 8 Plastic/cyborg surgery Suggested Characteristics While medical practice often attracts analytical, gentle people, the life-shaping events that medics experience often have a lasting impact on their outlook. d8 Personality Trait 1 I obsessively clean my medical equipment. 2 I like to organize things into neat categories. 3 My handwriting is an atrocious scrawl. 4 I’m constantly reading something. 5 I’m not afraid of a bit of blood. 6 I expect people to jump when I say so, if not sooner. 7 High-pressure situations don't faze me. 8 I can be blasé about my own health. d6 Ideal 1 Aid. I have dedicated my life to helping others. (Good) 2 Wealth. At the end of the day, I’m here for the money. (Evil) 3 Secrets. My goal in life is to learn as much as possible. (Neutral) 4 Duty. I swore an oath to “do no harm,” and I mean to stick to it. (Lawful) 5 Freedom. I enable people to live the way they want by providing the medical care they choose for themselves. (Chaotic) 6 Peace. I have seen the results of war and conflict, so I want to do everything I can to foster peace and understanding. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I am looking for a cure to save someone I love. 2 I must track down the relatives of a deceased patient to tell them the bad news (and collect my fee). 3 A hospital on another planet has asked me to help deal with an emergency. 4 A terminal patient in my care charged me with completing their life’s work. 5 My friends from medical school still keep in touch, even from across the galaxy. 6 I have a gaggle of medical students following me around everywhere. d6 Flaw 1 I have nightmares about the people I have failed to save. 2 I have a problem with self-medication. 3 I focus solely on immediate problems and ignore the bigger picture. 4 My black humor sometimes unsettles those around me. 5 My qualifications are actually fake; I live in fear of being found out. 6 I am a dreadful hypochondriac.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Dark Matter Starter Kit

