# Shipper

**description**: You know the true value of being able to get goods and services from place to place. You see yourself as a free trader, hauling items or people of all types from place to place so long as you’ve got the tools and the ship for it. Sometimes you’re helping to bring meds or refugees across the warzone. Some other times can be... a bit less heroic. Skill Proficiencies: Astrophysics, Deception Tool Proficiencies: One gaming set of your choice, Vehicles (Space). Languages: One of your choice Equipment: basic clothes, flight suit, combat knife, inventory database, 150 cubil Feature: Space Lanes There’s two starmaps for every sector of space—the one used by the standard travel jockeys, and the other one with the forgotten space lanes most people avoid. You know all the quickest backways through space routes and can often get discounts on docking fees and refueling costs at various space stations across the galaxy. Suggested Characteristics Transporters can find work with businesses and governments of all types. They know their usual galactic routes like the back of their hand, along with the many people that live throughout those sectors. They can be very personable and understand that every area of space has its own unique charm and sense of style. d8 Personality Trait 1 I enjoy the thrill of finding a new planet or sector of space. 2 I always like to make sure I'm the smartest person in the room. 3 I respect authority... while it's in earshot. 4 Money talks, but it should never make up the whole conversation. 5 I enjoy exploring the history and culture of the locals I run into. 6 The more impossible the job, the more it intrigues me. 7 I have tons of acquaintances, and very few friends. 8 I like to keep my thoughts to myself until it's the right time to make a move. d6 Ideal 1 Impartiality . I’m just the shuttle service. What gets shipped to whom is none of my concern. (Neutral) 2 Greater Good . I help people, the profit is just a side benefit. (Good) 3 Honor . Even if I break the law, it's because I'm sticking to my own code. (Lawful) 4 Greed . Profit and more profit justifies the means to every end.(Evil) 5 Power . It’s entertaining to see how my cargo, in the “right” hands, can dramatically change the course of things. (Chaotic) 6 Professional . It’s a living and I am good at it. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I was once part of a much larger crew and would like to get that feeling back. 2 One of my teammates was once a former client. 3 I helped someone escape the law. I often wonder if I made the right choice. 4 My ship is my life and my home. 5 I once got too close with a client and got betrayed in the end. I now keep business dealings far away from personal affairs. 6 I've got a price on my head for crossing the wrong client. I'm doing my best to clear my name. d6 Flaw 1 I get nervous when I'm grounded for too long. 2 I'm always looking to push the envelope, even against the safety of my teammates. 3 Even in dire circumstances, I'll always find time for a little rest and relaxation. 4 It's tough to resist a job with an easy profit. 5 If things get too hot, I'll consider cutting my losses. 6 Everyone's got a price. I usually find it by squeezing just a little bit harder. Variant Transporter: Smuggler You know how to get the goods you can’t buy at your local vendor. You know the ins and outs of getting goods past security checkpoints and around the red tape of contraband laws. You have underworld contacts at most spaceports that can give you the general and not-so-general information about the area, as well as provide deeper insight into local rumors.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

