# Siwali Traveler

**description**: You traveled the sands of the deserts as a youth, with the camel trains, as part of a sandship crew, or in a caravan. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, Survival Tool Proficiencies: Navigator’s tools, Vehicles (land) Equipment: A staff, a set of traveler’s clothes, waterskin, several small pouches of herbs and spices, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp. Feature: Worldly You know the local deserts, their cultures, and the customs of those people. You know where and when nomadic tribes typically pass through certain areas, which tribes claim which oasis at what time of year, and where food and water can likely be found (though no guarantee). You also have one trade contact with a group or individual outside of your tribe. This contact may be friendly or barely tolerated, but trade between rival camps is a necessity for survival in the harsh environments. You know when and where this contact will be at any time of year and can send messages to this contact even over great distances; you know the local messengers, caravan masters, and runners who can carry messages for you. Suggested Characteristics Siwali tradesmen and caravanners travel among the great cities of the Southlands, carrying dates, rare flowers, spices, salt, herbs, and other trade goods. Adventurers with this background are used to a range of cultures, languages, and laws and are typically a curious lot. Wanderlust swings from one extreme to the other—you either become anxious and antsy staying in one town or city for more than a few weeks, or you have tired of life on the open road and long for a permanent home, friends, and family. d8 Personality Trait 1 I’m driven by a wanderlust that led me away from home. 2 I’m rude to people who lack my commitment to hard work and fair play. 3 I don’t part with my money easily and will haggle tirelessly to get the best deal possible. 4 I am utterly serene; panic won’t protect you from a sandstorm. 5 My friends know they can rely on me; teamwork is survival in a caravan. 6 I never pass up a friendly wager. 7 Don’t let the truth get in the way of a good story. 8 I judge people by their actions, not their words. d6 Ideal 1 Freedom. Everyone should be free to travel and to pursue their own destiny. (Chaotic) 2 People. I’m committed to the people I care about, not to ideals. (Neutral) 3 Greed. I’m only in it for the money. (Evil) 4 Fairness. Order, teamwork, and fair treatment are the foundations of caravan survival. (Lawful) 5 Live and Let Live. Trade is trade; imposing your beliefs and traditions on others only leads to trouble. (Neutral) 6 Aspiration. Someday I will own my own caravan and be an example to traders everywhere. (Any) d6 Bond 1 Nothing is more important than the other members of my caravan. 2 I owe my life to the trader who raised me after my family died. 3 I long for the days when I can travel to my love’s home settlement. If only they had my love of the open road. 4 I was once cheated out of my fair share of profits and I’ll get what’s due me. 5 The caravan itself is the most important thing—masters, guards, and servants come and go. 6 I joined the caravans to avoid those who may still be hunting me. One day, I will be ready to confront them. d6 Flaw 1 Gossip shatters bonds built by action. I don’t talk, I do. 2 Life is lonely on the road. I have an insatiable desire for the pleasures of civilization. 3 I’ll do anything to get my hands on something rare or priceless. 4 No one can know I once stole from the caravan; betrayal on the road means death by eviction. 5 I have trouble keeping my thoughts to myself; my tongue often lands me in trouble. 6 I am suspicious of strangers and always think the worst of them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Southlands Player's Guide

