# Siwali Embalmer

**description**: In Siwal, dealing with the dead is the livelihood of a select few families. You are a member of one of the families of Siwal’s gravebinders, or you have apprenticed to one of them. You are trained in the making of shrouds, leading mourning ceremonies, and the methods one must use to consecrate both body and gravesite to prevent the dead from rising as undead. As one of the few who truly knows the streets and avenues of the Grand Necropolis, you are afforded a measure more respect than most simple gravediggers. Skill Proficiencies: Medicine, Religion Tool Proficiencies: Choose one of the following: alchemist’s supplies, carpenter’s tools, mason’s tools, weaver’s tools, or woodcarver’s tools Equipment: A set of tools you are proficient with, a flask of holy water, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Secrets of the Gravekeeper You spent your formative years walking the streets and alleys of graveyards and understand similar logic dictates the layout and architecture of most burial grounds. When you are in a graveyard, cemetery, or other burial site, you have advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) checks to find the location of individuals or families interred at the site. In addition, you have advantage on Intelligence (History) checks to discover information about those interred at a burial site if you have visited the site at least once. You also spent much of your life experiencing and sharing the grief of those who have lost loved ones. You are adept at bringing solace to grieving people, and, when you do, you receive their gratitude in return. Whether this gratitude is given immediately or at some point in the future is at the GM’s discretion. This gratitude might come as a minor gift, monetary aid, much-needed information, or other token of their appreciation. Suggested Characteristics Siwali embalmers spent the bulk of their time ensuring the dead were respectfully prepared for eternity, which often makes them seem distant or disinterested when they must interact with the living. Dedicated to the task of properly disposing of the dead, Siwali embalmers despise the undead. When they come across the remains of a humanoid creature that has been improperly laid to rest, they take as much time as they can spare to ensure the body, and hopefully the spirit, are properly put to rest. d8 Personality Trait 1 I have no reason to fear death; it is merely the next step in our journey. 2 I enjoy the quiet stillness of the dead. The living are far too busy and loud. 3 I hide my fear of death from my colleagues. 4 I cope with life's uncertainties by ensuring my life is perfectly ordered. 5 I treat the dead with respect because I hope I am shown the same kindness when my end comes. 6 Every corpse I prepare gives me reason to rejoice that I still live. 7 How I treat the tools of my trade is representative of how I treat the living. 8 Our ends could come at any time, why should I not live each day as though it were my last? d6 Ideal 1 Tradition. The way our society treats those who have passed to the next life is indicative of how they treat those who still live this life. (Lawful) 2 Balance. We live then we die—it is the cycle of life. (Neutral) 3 Service. If no one steps forward to ensure the dead are interred, we will be awash in restless spirits. (Good) 4 Knowledge. The more we understand how we die, the better we can live a healthy and productive life. (Neutral) 5 Greed. Every life that ends leaves more for those who remain living. (Evil) 6 Fairness. We must beat death back and live as fully as possible before the end takes us. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 My livelihood keeps the community safe from angry spirits. 2 I am required to know the funerary traditions of all the major religions of the region to ensure every spirit passes to its proper resting place, no matter its faith. 3 When I was young, I barely survived an encounter with a zombie. 4 My family has tended to the needs of the dead for centuries. 5 I will pass my skill on to the next generation before it is time to put down my tools. 6 My deeds as a hunter and destroyer of the undead will be told and retold. d6 Flaw 1 After I am done with my work, I wash my hands until they are red and raw. 2 When I am questioned about my work, I get defensive and angry. 3 When I witness something dying, I stare at it in fascination. 4 When matters of medicine or the dead are discussed, I discount anyone’s contributions other than my own. 5 I dislike being in open spaces and prefer close confines. 6 When performing my work, I talk to the dead and often pause while doing so, as if giving the dead time to respond.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Underworld Player's Guide

