# Soshi Family - Scorpion Clan

**description**: The Soshi are often overlooked, and that is how they prefer things to be. For generations, the Soshi family has trained the most subtle illusionists in Rokugan, whose carefully crafted façades are nearly impossible to detect, even for other ritualists. They are most effective when unseen, offering up prayers in silence for the Scorpion Clan. The Soshi live for subtlety, the gentle nudge, the whispered word that sets everything into motion. Sometimes this comes at a price, however, for their preference for acting at the perfect moment often makes them exceedingly cautious and prone to excessive planning and information gathering. Skill Proficiencies: Religion, choose one other Dexterity-based skill (Acrobatics, Sleight of Hand, Stealth). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or mystic implement, any one tool of subterfuge. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Courtly Rokugani, and one other common language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes, unremarkable garb, wakizashi, mask, any one artisan tool or mystic implement, any one tool of subterfuge, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Secrets and Subtleties You were raised in the Scorpion Clan and have a deep knowledge of the overt and covert sides of politics, granting you the following benefits: You know about the general state of political affairs between the clans. You know the major political players on the national stage, as well as their perceived strengths and weaknesses. You are aware of the most substantial criminal cartels in the Emerald Empire, especially as their interests overlap or conflict with those of the Scorpion Clan. You know about poisons, tools of assassination, and other less-than-legal means of pursuing goals. You know the state of court matters in the Imperial Capital. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Scorpion Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Soshi Illusionist School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Soshi school of rituals, make Intelligence and Dexterity your highest ability scores. Begin in the ritualist class, selecting the Artisan archetype and Illusory Artifice as your mystic craft. Focus on subtle invocations that you can use without people noticing, such as mask of wind , secrets on the wind , and token of memory . Put the rest of your levels into ritualist, or consider putting six levels into the acolyte class to pursue the Acolyte of Shadow archetype, giving your character a plethora of strange abilities derived from their shadow brand. Soshi Shadow Agent Quick Build If you want to build a Soshi character who walks the path of the family’s founder and wields a powerful and dangerous shadow brand as their primary weapon and tool, make Dexterity and Wisdom your highest ability scores, followed by Charisma. Begin in the acolyte class, selecting the Acolyte of Shadows archetype. Choose a shadow brand that suits your preferred playstyle. Then take three levels of shinobi, choosing the Infiltrator archetype to improve your stealth skills. Put the remainder of your levels into acolyte for raw power, or detour into the courtier class for three levels for the Investigator archetype to make a more well-rounded covert operative.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

