# Spartan Warrior

**description**: As a member of the Spartan Army, your life is devoted to War and your home. You have been trained by the harshest taskmasters in the land, since you were a child, to be nothing short of a perfect warrior. For if a warrior does not reach this ideal, how could they ever dare to call themselves a Spartan? Values of teamwork, determination, tactical thinking and loyalty are part of every Spartan's education, alongside the brutal training for combat they undergo over the years. Every Spartan should be a team player and comprehend that loyalty is what creates their bonds as the strongest warriors. For a Spartan the worst thing to face is not a deadly enemy, but a dirty traitor, as it is a stain on their very pride. Army Rank During your time as part of the Spartan military, you had a specific role to play. Roll a d8 or choose from the options in the table below to determine your role: d8 Rank d8 Rank 1 Hoplite (Foot Soldier) 5 Horse Archer (Hippotoxotes) 2 Regiment Commander Cavalry (Hyparchos) 6 Battalion leader (Tagmatarkhis) 3 Captain (Lokhagos) 7 Field Medic 4 Brigadier (Taxiarhos) 8 Support staff (cook, blacksmith, or the like) Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Intimidation Tool Proficiencies: Land Vehicles Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A Spartan banner, any simple or martial weapon, a souvenir from a famous battle (a broken weapon, shield or armor from an enemy soldier, for example), a whetstone, a set of Common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Spartan Rank You have an established place in the hierarchy of the Spartan Army. You can requisition simple Equipment for temporary use, and you can gain access to any outpost or spartan camp, where you can rest in safety and receive the attention of medics. You are also paid a salary of 7 gp per week while staying at an outpost and helping, which (combined with free lodging in any outpost) enables you to maintain a comfortable lifestyle Between Adventures. Spartan Warrior Spells Prerequisite: Spellcasting or Pact Magic class feature For you, the Spells on the Spartan Warrior Spells table are added to the spell list of your Spellcasting class. (If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these Spells are added to all of them.) Spartan Warrior Spells Spell Level Spells Cantrip Booming Blade, Fire Bolt 1st Absorb Elements, Shield 2nd Barkskin, Branding Smite 3rd Haste, Spirit Shroud 4th Death Ward, Guardian of Faith 5th Banishing Smite, Steel Wind Strike Your magic, being granted by the god of War, is always tinted red, like a bloody battlefield. When you cast beneficial Spells on your allies, they appear momentarily surrounded by a red aura that resembles a violent red flame. Suggested Characteristics The Spartan Army is a passionate place to belong, full of powerful resolve and tempered with brutal military discipline. These aspects shape the ideals, strong bonds and the rigid flaws these great warriors acquire. d8 Personality Trait 1 I’m always polite and defer to authority. 2 I’m full of inspiring and cautionary tales from my military experience relevant to almost every combat situation. 3 I approach every task with the same high degree of military precision. 4 My home is more important to me than my life. 5 Dangerous work is best accomplished by an orderly group working with common purpose. 6 I treat my weapons, armor and banner like gifts from the god of war himself. 7 Fear is for the rest, I won't despair no matter the odds. 8 I spend my time getting to know my allies. A close team will always be a more effective team. d6 Ideal 1 Home. My home is all that really matters. (Any) 2 Solidarity. It is most crucial to act with a single will, marching side by side in perfect accord. (Lawful) 3 Responsibility. As the strongest, we have the obligation to protect our people. (Good) 4 Independence. Even the strongest systems are flawed, I cannot let it drag me down when it fails. (Chaotic) 5 Order. Society functions only if people do their duty and respect the chain of Command. (Lawful) 6 Dominion. Conquering others is the only way to protect our home. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I would lay down my life for my spartan brothers, sisters and my home. 2 I wield the same weapon my ancestor did. 3 I do what I can to help out the family of a comrade who died in battle. 4 Those who fight beside me are those worth dying for. 5 I owe my life to the captain who took me in when I was living on the streets. 6 I'll never forget the humiliating defeat at the hands of our enemy. d6 Flaw 1 I trust the chain of command more than anything—more even than my own family and friends. 2 I'm slow to let my guard down around strangers. 3 I don't believe that the superiority of our army will last for much longer. 4 I have little respect for anyone who is not a Proven Warrior. 5 I am stubborn to a fault. 6 I will follow orders, even if they contradict my own values.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27802

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

