# Starlight Sea Raider

**description**: Starlight Sea Raider “Those who sail the Starlight Seas are a motley bunch, as varied as individual blades of grass. Some beautiful, some grotesque, and some indescribable. You should fear them all.” You learned that to survive, you had to carve out your destiny and embrace a life of chaos. Your life is hard but one in which you thrive. You have become skilled at intimidation, information extraction, and enforcement. Your ability to instill fear and obedience makes you an invaluable asset to your crew. Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Investigation Tool Proficiencies: Thieves’ tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A trophy from a slain enemy, a set of rugged clothes, thieves’ tools, and a belt pouch containing 15 gp Bonus Trait: Intrinsic Orientation Officer Progression. If you use the optional Seafarer Advancement Rules (see chapter 7), you increase your officer station rank by one in your choice of boatswain or master gunner Feature: Drake’s Talon Your fearsome reputation grants you special insight into other’s weaknesses. You have advantage on Investigation and Intimidation checks made to gather information from captives through fear and menace. Suggested Characteristics Starlight Sea Raiders often find solace in the sea from their tumultuous lives, feeding a drive for adventure as they sail across the aetherial waters. Personality Trait d8 Personality 1 I seize the chances that others overlook and take any steps necessary to complete my goals. 2 The cultures I have been exposed to have shaped me. I prioritize the survival of my crew above others. 3 Despite my violent reputation, I feel hidden empathy for the downtrodden, doing what I can to protect them. 4 I find purpose in joviality. I play pranks and tell jokes, using humor to deflect stress and conflict. 5 Life has left me prone to nervous energy, as I expect the next pitfall is just around the corner. 6 To prosper, I hardened myself and have no tolerance for weakness or frivolity. 7 The elemental portals fascinate me. The wonder I experience never lessens. 8 I believe the seas have their own singular consciousness. I am extremely respectful of them, treating them like a revered elder. Ideal d6 Ideal 1 Service. Those that I encounter are lost souls. I take them under my wing to teach them the wonders of the seas. 2 Independence. People are going to betray me in the end. The only person that I rely on is myself. 3 Discovery. I believe there are ill-fated civilizations or elemental doorways lost beneath the aether. 4 Engagement. I am a philosopher at heart and engage in lengthy discussions with the people around me. 5 Perfection. I strive to create the perfect rhythm or song, using my skills to affect the emotions of those around me. 6 Understanding. I seek to categorize the planes in hopes that it will bring further understanding to my own life. Bond d6 Bond 1 There are invisible threads between the floating islands of the Expanse, and they must exist in harmony. 2 I share a mythical bond with my ship and know it has been infused with more than simply aether. 3 The moonlight sirens have touched my soul. Others must experience their song for me to be fulfilled. 4 My shadow is a chained soul that speaks through me. Freeing them from their imprisonment dominates me. 5 Underneath my skin whirls a portion of aether. It has begun to spread, but I refuse to have it removed. 6 The elemental creatures of the planes need someone to bridge the gap between them. I am that person. d6 Flaw 1 The guilt of past mistakes consumes me, causing me to second guess my decisions. 2 My disregard for rules leads me to violate oaths or codes purely out of spite. 3 The magic in the seas speaks to me. I am distracted as their whispers fill my ears. 4 My allegiances fluctuate with the tides, making it difficult to predict my actions. 5 I have a deep fear of the sea. I avoid tasks that take place in the open, preferring to be below decks. 6 I have a poor sense of direction and struggle to navigate, getting easily lost or turned around.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 32048

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

