# Storyteller

**description**: Storytellers are always respected. Even if they are battered, tired, and have been on the road for weeks, a storyteller commands a certain respect that is hard to define, but impossible to miss. They play vital roles in society: entertainer, teacher, and record keeper. They collect, trade, and share in the great stories of the past and present, helping adventurers become famous, turning heroes into legends. Did you become an adventurer to hear stories from around the world, or to create your own stories? Skill Proficiencies: History and Performance Tool Proficiencies: A musical instrument of your choice Languages: Two of your choice Equipment: A set of common clothes, a bottle of ink, a quill, three sheets of parchment, three works of fiction or histories, and 5 gp. Feature: A story for every occasion You learn stories wherever you go. You are able to have people provide you with interesting lore, or information about parts of the local culture. Some will be true, others legend, but all have value - it's up to you how to use them. Suggested Characteristics Storytellers are collectors of knowledge, myth, and everything in between. Storytellers will likely be curious, personable, and interested in cultures, histories, and legends. d8 Personality Trait 1 I love reading, and am always on the lookout for new books. 2 I actually don't talk much. I prefer to listen. 3 I keep a diary, and write everything down. Everything. 4 I'm always willing to explore a dungeon if there's a good story involved. 5 My worst fear is losing my memory. 6 I get very angry when people assume all storytellers are bards. 7 I harvest the lives of my friends for material, even if they don't want me to. 8 I'm happiest at a campfire, with a few close friends and a good story. d6 Ideal 1 History. I strive to remember as much as I can. The stories of history should never be forgotten. (Law) 2 Enjoyment. Never let the truth get in the way of a good story. (Chaotic) 3 Control. There's only one truth. Mine. (Evil) 4 Money. I only tell stories when I get paid for it. (Neutral) 5 Fame. My stories will go down in history. (Any) 6 Connection. Stories help bring us together. My work is about helping people feel less alone. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I long to perform in the halls of royalty. 2 I learnt my craft from the great storytellers of history, and strive to live up to their example. 3 I collect stories for my family. Through them, they can experience anything and everything. 4 I will never forget the storyteller who inspired me when I was a child. 5 If you've got a story for me, I consider you a friend. 6 In the end, stories are all we have. I consider my work a sacred duty. d6 Flaw 1 I take bribes to make adventurers and politicians sound better. 2 I hold onto a grudge forever, and I make sure everyone knows it. 3 Once I start telling a story, it's hard to get me to stop. 4 I put more time into my storytelling than into my combat practice. 5 Most of my stories are completely made up. 6 If anyone isn't paying attention to my story, I yell at them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

