# Student

**description**: You are an avid student and eager learner. You always like to know the answers and will spend hours researching facts for fun. While you enjoy your academic studies in general, you have focused on a particular subject in which you are an expert. You may have learned about this subject from your parents in relation to their own jobs or you may have been drawn to the subject by a friend, a favorite teacher at school, or even a private tutor. Skill Proficiencies (Choose One) : History, Religion, Nature, Arcana, Medicine, Survival, or Performance. Languages : One of your choice. Equipment : A book on the subject of your choice and a scholar’s pack. Feature: Academic As a student, you have extensive knowledge in the subject of your choice from the list above and can speak eloquently and thoroughly on the topic. You and your adventuring companions can expect to confer with teachers and scholars who share the same knowledge. You are welcome within the walls of any learning institution and will be supported at a modest lifestyle if you choose to either continue your studies in your subject of choice or lend your time to teach other students. While near such learning institutions, you may call upon the teachers or scholars there for assistance with research or other knowledge-based needs. Suggested Characteristics Students are given unique knowledge and experiences from their teachers both in school and in life. Their studies in their chosen subject affect and shape their view of the world around them, their mannerisms, and ideals. Flaws may include narrow-mindedness in your field of study, obsession with the chosen topic, an elitist attitude toward those less educated, or an ideal or bond that is solely tied to education. d8 Personality 1 I over-examine any new object I discover. 2 I’m happiest when I’m learning a new skill. 3 I am respectful to my elders. 4 I am never bored. 5 I quote books I’ve read any time I can. 6 I have a random collection and will add to it whenever I can. 7 I am a chatterbox. 8 I will always try to do things I’m not necessarily good at. d6 Ideal 1 Knowledge. I will teach others anything I’ve learned that they want to know. (Neutral) 2 Curiosity. I will take risks to find new information. (Chaotic) 3 Tradition. The stories, legends, and songs of the past must never be forgotten. (Lawful) 4 Logic. Emotions must not cloud our logical thinking. (Lawful) 5 Self-improvement. The goal of a life of study is the betterment of oneself. (Neutral) 6 Freedom. Educating oneself provides the opportunity for informed choice. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 I lost my favorite book. Someday I’ll find another copy. 2 I felt closer to my teacher than most of my family. 3 One day I will write my autobiography. 4 I cheated on a major test in school and can never tell anyone. 5 One day I will take on a Wardling apprentice. 6 I will discover a hidden source of knowledge and share it with the world. d6 Flaw 1 I think I’m smarter than everyone else. 2 I have trouble keeping my concentration. 3 I have a hard time talking about non-academic subjects. 4 I tend to be very blunt, even if what I say seems harsh. 5 I can be overly ambitious if I think it will impress others. 6 Now that I’m out of school, I believe my knowledge should come with a price.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

