# Tattered Ear Tribe - Non-Human

**description**: Within the ancient vale known as the Shinomen Forest, the Tattered Ear nezumi have flourished despite all odds. The primeval forest defies all attempts to tame it, devouring most civilizations with the hubris to enter it. However, the Tattered Ear nezumi have carved several places for themselves, the largest of which is called the Great Home. This massive tree has been the haven of the Tattered Ear since their arrival in the forest in centuries long past. Beneath its roots, the Tattered Ear make their warrens and gather their scavenged treasures into a great pile. Into its bark, their historians have gnawed not only the memory of the tribe’s founding and rescue, but every other significant event in their history, the coiled patterns stretching far up and down the tree’s trunk, into the very foundation of their people. While the Tattered Ear do have many burrows and villages within the Shinomen Forest, the Great Home is the largest and is sacred to their people. Despite living in a deadly forest, or perhaps because of it, the Tattered Ear nezumi are known for being quite hospitable to outsiders, if voraciously curious about the outside world. Skill Proficiencies: Stealth, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or musical instrument. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Leaf-Rustle, and one other language of your choice. Equipment: Traveling clothes, dagger, any one artisan tool or musical instrument, and 3 gp. Suggested Feats: Brawler’s Edge, Laborer’s Endurance, Survivalist’s Eye. Background Feature: Walker of Secret Ways You were raised among a culture that consists predominantly of nonhumans, and might not even be in the Mortal Realm. As such, you have a different way of understanding the world than most humans, granting you the following benefits: You know the history of your own culture and how it has interacted with other groups across the centuries. You know a great deal about passing through regions that human inhabitants of Rokugan generally view as impassable in relative safety, such as through the spirit realms, the Shadowlands, or the Shinomen Forest. You can identify the dangers and areas of safety in these places. You instinctively recognize the taboos of spirits and otherworldly beings when visiting their domains, though you do not necessarily have all the information needed to deal with them. You know about the various realms below, beside, and above, and can recognize the common markers of their inhabitants.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

