# Techie

**description**: You’re a whiz when it comes to anything technical. Computers and machines are your forte and also your favorite topic of discussion. You’ve got connections of the digital sort who are often the source of useful information. If the “mundanes” out there knew what you did, their brains would probably melt away. Skill Proficiencies: Computers, Mechanics Tool Proficiencies: Hacker’s kit, Cybersmith’s tools, Digital Technician’s Tools, or Shipwright’s Tools Languages: ALOMU (universal programming code), one other language of your choice. Equipment: basic clothes, Portable Media Device, 150 cubil. Feature: Industry Professional You are an expert on the quality and rarity of electronics and mechanical devices. You can easily identify the make and model of certain computers and machines. You also know various contacts that can find you deals on decent tech gear and gear upgrades. Suggested Characteristics Techies have a deep love and understanding for machines, which often reflects in their personality. They tend to approach most situations analytically, and often find trouble communicating with different people. They also carry a sense of imagination and wonder for the future advancements of society. d8 Personality Trait 1 I need to know how everything works, down to the last circuit. 2 I am much better at dealing with machines than I am with people. 3 I often feel the need to explain everything to everyone down the most minute detail. 4 I love showing off my work to all of my friends and companions. 5 I do not like social confrontations and tend to avoid them as much as possible. 6 I love to take things apart and put them back together just to see how they function. 7 My love for technology is only surpassed by my love of companionship. 8 I can’t stand seeing a piece of tech that is falling apart due to negligence. d6 Ideal 1 Focus . I don’t care what it’s used for, just as long as I’m left alone to work on it. (Neutral) 2 Benefit . Technology should be used for the betterment of everyone. (Good) 3 Logic . Like machines, everyone must do their part in order for things to run smoothly. (Lawful) 4 Control . Control the machines that run society, and you will control the people. (Evil) 5 Progressive . New discoveries are just around the corner, just as long as we’re willing to take the chance. (Chaotic) 6 Advancement . I use my skills to guide myself and those with me into an extraordinary future. (Any) d6 Bond 1 I created an abomination of technology that I will regret for my remaining days. 2 My personal loss has driven me to bury myself into machines over people. 3 I am in charge of a technological group of business. 4 I made a scientific discovery that must never fall into the wrong hands. 5 I stole trade secrets from a megacorporation. They have been searching form ever since. 6 My ultimate goal is to build the perfect machine. d6 Flaw 1 I always assume that I am the smartest person in the room. 2 I am easily distracted by the promise of new technological discoveries. 3 I have little respect for those who have no knowledge in my field of expertise. 4 I lose my temper at anyone who tells me I am wrong. 5 I often dismiss the emotions and feelings of others as useless ramblings. 6 I find it difficult to distinguish between the importance of living souls versus machines.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

