# Technologist

**description**: The galaxy is filled with machines—machines that often break down. Technologists are experts in repairing, tuning, and decommissioning the devices that other people rely on for their employment, comfort, and safety. Therefore, they are in constant demand everywhere, from heavily industrialized foundry worlds near the galactic core, to the Frontier worlds on the rim. Moreover, any ship of significant size is likely to employ engineers to keep it flying, regardless of where it finds itself in the ‘verse. Technologists come in all shapes and sizes, so there are lots of reasons why they might become adventurers. It could be that they are drawn to the challenge, or that they seek to uncover arcane secrets that can be incorporated into their machines. Some might have gotten their start as hired helpers for an established adventuring party, while a surprising number turn to druidry, having become so sick of malfunctioning technology that the only option is to cut it out of their lives altogether! Skill Proficiencies: Data, Technology Tool Proficiencies: Mechanist’s tools, one set of artisan’s tools Equipment: A set of tinker’s tools, a broken piece of a mysterious machine, a large pipe wrench (counts as a mace), a set of common clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp Feature: Vent Tape and Elbow Grease Invariably, technologists find themselves needing to repair things without access to the proper tools, training, or spare parts, having to make do with temporary stop-gap measures and whatever they happen to have on hand. Your experience with this means that you can often cobble something together to keep a damaged system working for a few crucial minutes or hours, as long as you focus all of your attention onto it. Specialism Most technologists are highly trained in the workings of a handful of systems and have only theoretical knowledge of others. Decide which machines you have worked on, or roll on the table below. d10 Specialty 1 Dark Matter engines 2 Blasters 3 Arcane databases 4 Power systems 5 Shield generators 6 Automatons and construct cores 7 Cranes and docking systems 8 Climate control systems 9 Terrestrial/atmospheric vehicles 10 Industrial machinery Suggested Characteristics Technologists are a breed apart, often preferring to work with machines than with people. Having to blend technical knowledge, manual skills, and a certain amount of creativity in order to succeed in their roles means that they are sometimes rather eccentric in character. d8 Personality Trait 1 I am extremely curious about everything. 2 I collect random pieces of junk. 3 I have strong opinions about different manufacturers of tools. 4 I prefer machines to people. 5 I have an encyclopedic knowledge of material properties. 6 Attention to detail is my middle name. 7 I am very attached to my custom-built weapon. 8 I have an uncanny instinct for when a ship is about to break down. d6 Ideal 1 Fix What’s Broken. I see myself as a healer of the sick; someone who restores hope when things are going wrong. (Good) 2 Invent Something New. The purpose of life is to break the mold and do things that have never been done before. (Chaotic) 3 Build Deadlier Weapons. I derive pleasure from the thought that my machines might hurt people. (Evil) 4 Everything in Its Place. I believe it’s important to make the universe more organized and efficient. (Lawful) 5 Just a Job. I do what's needed, but nothing more. Getting paid is what’s important. (Neutral) 6 A Better Future. More technology will make this world a utopia! (Any) d6 Bond 1 I am extremely attached to a particular machine. 2 I am looking for a lost piece of technology. 3 I need to find an expert in an obscure science to help me complete my life’s work. 4 My current employer has sent me to a distant system to do some specialist work. 5 An important device has been entrusted to me for maintenance and repair. 6 I formed a strong bond with my ship’s crew. d6 Flaw 1 I compulsively disassemble any machinery that isn’t in use right now. 2 I can’t bring myself to trust magic-users. 3 I am incapable of communicating my ideas clearly and concisely to other people. 4 I suffer from very rigid logic and struggle to think outside of the box. 5 I jump in trying to fix things before properly assessing what the problem is. 6 I’m completely uninterested in history, art, or culture.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Dark Matter Starter Kit

