# Tent Master

**description**: The life of a tent master is an unforgiving one. They are a necessary part of the circus, but never get a chance to enjoy the spotlight. It’s their job to build the tents and maintain them, repair games and rides, and handle any of the rigging that needs to be done for the acrobats. They often work behind the scenes, even during live events, without ever making their presence known. They live a simple, no-nonsense life and take great pride in their work. Skill Proficiencies : Athletics , Stealth . Languages : One of your choice. Tool Proficiency : Artisan's Tools Equipment : A disguise kit, a set of traveler’s clothes, a horn, a set of juggling pins, 5 gp. Feature: Behind the Scenes You are accustomed to working in the background, whether that’s checking an acrobat's harness for safety, or making sure that the dunk tank is functioning properly. Your work surrounds the patrons of the circus, but is almost never noticed. You have advantage on Stealth checks made when a performance is happening within 50 feet of you. Suggested Characteristics Tent masters are used to a rugged life. They travel far and live hard, scarcely noticed while working, but often the life of any party. They are hardened by the physical demands of their work, but secretly love to lie down for the night with aching muscles. d8 Personality Trait 1 I don’t care how others perceive me, or if they perceive me at all. 2 The only way for a job to get done right is if I do it myself. 3 I have no aspiration for greatness, just a desire to keep the show going. 4 I’ve seen it all before and done it all twice. 5 If there’s a problem that needs to be solved, I’m the one people come to. 6 If something has to be done, it needs to be done safely. 7 If I’m presented with a problem I believe I can solve, I will not rest until the task is complete. 8 If someone notices me working, I make a display of how hard my work is. d6 Ideal 1 Creativity. There is no single correct way to go about solving a problem. (chaotic) 2 Tradition. There is a way things are supposed to be done, and that’s how I’m going to do them. (lawful) 3 Sincerity. I am, what I am and I’m comfortable with that. (neutral) 4 Respect. I respect those that have come before and every person has a role to play, none greater than another. (good) 5 Retribution. The wealthy should be made to understand how hard life can be. (evil) 6 Aspiration. I deserve a life better than this one. d6 Bond 1 The show must go on, even if I have to sacrifice to make it happen. 2 I’ve learned from those before me, and I hope to continue to grow my skills. 3 It is my duty to keep things running and my companions safe. 4 I must accept responsibility for my failings. 5 I would lay down my life for my circus family. 6 My worth is proven by how hard I’m willing to work. d6 Flaw 1 Once I start drinking, I find it hard to stop. 2 I put my work before my well-being. 3 If I’m wronged I will never trust you again. 4 I’m jealous of anyone that can do a job better than I can. 5 I’m very slow to trust others. Trust needs to be well earned. 6 Sometimes my concentration on my tasks can blind me to the world around me.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Escape Plan Games

**book**: Tavern Tales Vol 1 - A Trip Away Inn

