# The Ghostlands - Non-Rokugani

**description**: The Ivory Kingdoms are bordered along a large portion of their eastern edge by a region of thick, gloomy, tangled forests inhabited by evil spirits and terrifying monsters. These “Ghostlands” are, in fact, a natural rainforested area affected by the southernmost and westernmost reaches of the Shadowlands, the vile realm that borders the southern margin of Rokugan. A dedicated group known as the Yodha, which is organized into cadres of supremely skilled warriors, wages a never-ending struggle to hold back these evil forces. All Yodha are taught to be adept at fighting in the most closed and inhospitable terrain imaginable. They are also adept at recognizing and combating corrupt supernatural powers, using mystical substances such as gold and coral to enhance their formidable fighting skills. However, the grim nature of their endless battle against the Ghostlands has permeated the Yodha psyche. They tend to be dour and taciturn and are particularly suspicious of those they do not know well. To the Yodha, this distrust is justified; among their most fearsome opponents are the shapeshifting monstrosities known as rakshasa , whose queen harbors a relentless hatred for the Yodha and the civilization of the Ivory Kingdoms. Skill Proficiencies: Stealth, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one mystic implement, mounts. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and Ivindi, and can speak and sign battle argot. Equipment: Sanctified vestments or traveling clothes, dagger, any one tool, and 3 gp. Suggested Feats: Battlefield Training, Charm Connoisseur, Paragon. Background Feature: Neutral Party You have certain advantages due to being an outsider who is not implicated in local politics, such as: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your homeland. You know its forms of government, religions, and other organizations, as well as the various factions and individuals of note that strive to control these groups. You know the lay of the land where you grew up extremely well and know many people in that region. You know the trade that you grew up around well, even if you do not practice it yourself. Because you are from outside of Rokugan, members of Rokugani courts and other political organizations view you as being neutral to their conflicts. They do not assume that you favor a particular side, and might go to extra lengths to sway you to theirs if they think you are an asset who might help them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

