# Tian Shan - Non-Rokugani

**description**: Most of Tiān Shān consists of a single, massive mountain that twists towards the Heavens and stands proud above all of the other mountains in Yún Fēng Guó. From the outside, it boasts three ornate doorways carved from the mountain itself, with countless others sprinkled between the main tiers. There are two temples and one palace. The other, less significant doorways serve as entrances to dwellings of noble families. Stairs snake up the mountain in every direction. Two jewel-encrusted stairways converge near the top in the shape of dragon whiskers and lead to the grand temple where only the most righteous may step foot. Due to the mountain’s proximity to the magical river below, many who live in Tiān Shān work as alchemists. Rumors are circling that the Emperor has been conducting covert business with top alchemists, and the buzz of a potentially groundbreaking discovery echoes through the caves. While alchemists claim a most prestigious role, it is also common for nobles of Tiān Shān to join the ranks of the famous Spirit Jade Archers. These archers are quick of foot, able to scale steep rock faces with bows on their backs and hit moving targets from long distances. They’re experts at calculating the angle at which they must shoot given changes in elevation. Every archer makes their own arrows, a tradition that teaches them to trust in the translucent spirit jade arrowheads and sturdy shafts made from the wood of peach trees to bring down even the most sinister demons and keep them down. Skill Proficiencies: Medicine, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion) Tool Proficiencies: Bowyer’s kit, alchemist’s kit. Weapon Proficiencies: Hunting bow. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Yún Fēng Wén, and one other language of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or traveling clothes, dagger or staff, hunting bow and quiver with 20 willow-leaf arrows, bowyer’s kit, alchemist’s kit, and 8 gp. Suggested Feats: Clarity in Solace, Graceful Combatant, Survivalist’s Eye. Background Feature: Neutral Party You have certain advantages due to being an outsider who is not implicated in local politics, such as: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your homeland. You know its forms of government, religions, and other organizations, as well as the various factions and individuals of note that strive to control these groups. You know the lay of the land where you grew up extremely well and know many people in that region. You know the trade that you grew up around well, even if you do not practice it yourself. Because you are from outside of Rokugan, members of Rokugani courts and other political organizations view you as being neutral to their conflicts. They do not assume that you favor a particular side, and might go to extra lengths to sway you to theirs if they think you are an asset who might help them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

