# Togashi Order - Dragon Clan

**description**: The Togashi Order is a family by choice rather than bloodline, and welcomes anyone willing to embrace their teachings and accomplish the challenges required to join, the first of which is finding one of the Togashi monasteries hidden high in the mountains of Dragon lands. Some of those able to find their way to the order were members of the order in a past life, returning to continue their training and spiritual journey under the guidance of the Dragon Clan Champion. To the rest of the Empire, the order is known for skill with kōan (contemplative riddles) and the martial arts, as well as for the beautiful and mystical tattoos that grant them supernatural abilities. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Tattoo set, divination kit. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and Yún Fēng Wén. Equipment: Unremarkable clothes, staff, tattoo set, divination kit, and 8 gp. Background Feature: Life in the Mountains You have lived in the rugged mountains of Dragon lands for much of your life and know the environment and culture well, granting you the following benefits: You know who within your clan has been awarded membership into the Inner Circle of Togashi, although you would not be privy to the secrets of the Inner Circle unless you are also a member. You know more about monastic life and traditions than most other clans, having likely interacted with the Togashi Order throughout your life. Due to the rugged nature of your homeland, you know how to properly prepare mountain flora and wildlife for human consumption. You have a working understanding of many physical phenomena of the natural world and the beauty and dangers present in wild lands. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Dragon Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Togashi Tattooed Order Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character from the Togashi Order, make Strength and Wisdom your highest ability scores, with Constitution as a third priority. Begin in the acolyte class and select the Acolyte of Togashi archetype. Build out tattoos that give you mobility and area of effect attacks so that you can engage single foes and large groups of enemies alike. The Inner Circle of Togashi The Inner Circle of Togashi is a distinguished organization within the Dragon Clan. Its members are sacred stewards of the answers to many of the mysteries of Togashi and Dragon origins. Hidden deep in the expanse of their private library, a chest of scrolls reveals what most of Rokugan has never known. The cherished mythological tale ‘The Children of Sun and Moon’ omits a truth that forever ties the Dragon Clan founder, Togashi, to his wayward brother, Fu Leng. Lady Sun’s heart was never earnestly won by Lord Moon, yet her obligation to him was clear. She promised him children, so children she gave him. Once, while Lady Sun was exploring the far reaches of the Heavens, she encountered a Lord from an unknown land he called Tian Guo. The Lord was well-versed in poetry, and soon his soft words and chestnut eyes brought out a brightness in her she had previously reserved. She bore two children with him. The first, she gave the name Togashi to conceal his parentage from Lord Moon. The second, her lover requested to be named Fu Leng after the tongue of his people. When Lady Sun revealed the name of her youngest son to Lord Moon, he raged. With one mighty burst of anger, he sealed their Heavens from the Heavens beyond so Lady Sun would never be able to see her lover again. Fu Leng was openly despised by Lord Moon. Though his siblings did not know of their mother’s dalliance, some of them ridiculed him for being so hated by their father, assuming he had done something to deserve Lord Moon’s wrath. Seeing the way Fu Leng was treated, Lady Sun never revealed Togashi shared the same father, except to Togashi himself. With him, she shared the philosophies of his father, and he used all she taught him to establish the Dragon Clan. Never feeling fully aligned with his half-siblings, Togashi secluded himself and his clan to the northern mountains, where he privately mourned the descent of Fu Leng and sought Enlightenment to bring him closer to his father and to the mortal land of his father’s creation, Yún Fēng Guó. The Heavens and mortal lands of the two countries have remained sealed by Lord Moon’s fierce action. Only the most determined travelers make the journey, and few survive to successfully cross to the other side. The most keenly enlightened members of the Inner Circle of Togashi have predicted through visions that they can soon conquer through a complex ritual. Currently, Inner Circle agents have been assigned to search for relics of Fu Leng in the Shadowlands, an area Dragon Clan members have long avoided due to the tragic nature of Fu Leng’s downfall. This has caused much tension with the Crab Clan who patrols the border of the Shadowlands. Not knowing the Inner Circle of Togashi’s true intentions, they see these agents as spiritual tourists and more of a liability than anything else. It is only with artifacts belonging to the two original descendants of Tian Guo in Rokugan, Togashi and Fu Leng, that a fissure through the mountains can be made, allowing safe passage and ancestral reconnection for Dragon Clan members who wish to learn more of their divine origins. Without such a fissure, travel remains exceptionally dangerous. Yún Fēng Guó is said to be a maze of spire-like mountains that punctuate a misty sky. It is a land rich in otherworldly gems and glistening rivers that carry a current of peculiar magic. The few Dragon Clan members throughout history who have successfully traveled to Yún Fēng Guó and survived the precarious mountain pass on their return have refused to disclose information with the Imperial Court, but share extraordinary tales of their journey with other Dragon Clan elite, encouraging them to keep striving to establish direct access.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

