# Tough

**description**: “When you finish the game, the king and knave end up in the same box" - Alazian saying - Toughs were born and raised amidst all manner of oppression, hardship, or violence, yet far from breaking them, these extreme living conditions tempered their mettle, making them as hard as steel. Having been exposed so directly to the harshest abuse and privations, no obstacle, fear, or hesitation will stop them now. Skill Proficiencies : Athletics, Intimidation Tool Proficiencies : One type of gaming set Languages : Racket Equipment : A pendant of Saint Marauda, a poppycock card deck or another game, a set of common clothes, and a pouch with 15 sp. Feature: Tough Face You look so damn tough and intimidating that everyone you meet instantly realizes that you're no joke. When you interact with others using your Notoriety, you consider it 1 level higher. Suggested Characteristics In the Kingdom, the toughest of the tough come from Penumbria, the most violent and dangerous region in the Sinister Boot; many others originate from the worst neighborhoods of the worst cities in the Kingdom, from the depths of the poorest and most remote countryside, and from the most forbidding and isolated communities. The tough aren’t necessarily bad, but they’re certainly used to dealing with the bad guys, and should never be crossed lightly. d8 Personality Trait 1 I bow to no man, and I never apologize. 2 I have only two expressions: one with the hat, one without it. 3 There are tons of things that bother me, especially compliments. 4 I actually have a tender heart under this thick skin, but I do everything I can to hide it. 5 There's no such a thing as counting the money earned catching an infamous. 6 I believe people are monsters. I love animals, and I would never hurt them. 7 I can hardly stand others' company. I prefer to spend as much time alone as possible. 8 I never speak unless it is necessary. Oftentimes, one word is too many. d6 Ideal 1 Golden Heart. "Inferno knows no fury like a good person turned bad." (Good) 2 Intransigence. If these are our orders, we must follow them, whatever the cost. (Lawful) 3 Cynicism. The world is falling apart, and we can't solve anybody's problems! Let's think about ourselves, fellas! (Chaotic) 4 Power. With blades as in life, the toughest wins. (Evil) 5 Oppportunism. With Frange or Altomagna, as long as I can have lasagna. (Neutral) 6 Loot. Let's fill our pockets and go have a drink somewhere. There are no other certainties in life. (Any) d6 Bond 1 The people worth dying for are those fighting by my side. 2 I've got a list of the people who did me wrong. I recite it every night before bed. 3 The only person who has ever loved me, the only one I will never forget. 4 I have been betrayed many times, but there is one particular betrayal that still weighs me down. I'll have my revenge. 5 I always carry an old yellowed bounty with me. On the bounty, there is the name of someone I have been chasing for a long time now. 6 My old captain. I haven't seen him for years, but a word from him would be all that it takes to put the old Company back on its feet. d6 Flaw 1 I have little respect for anybody who doesn't prove to be a good fighter. 2 I have seen too much, and my soul has wounds that cannot be healed. 3 I don't trust anyone, and I always sleep with one eye open. 4 If my life were at stake, I'd betray my companions in the blink of an eye. 5 I believe I'm not capable of loving anyone or anything, anymore. 6 I am bloodthirsty and violent to the point of brutality.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

