# Traded Child

**description**: As a baby, you were traded to a hag, fiend, or other extraplanar bargain-maker. They raised you in a strange place, apart from others of your kind, to serve as a pawn in their schemes. Your unconventional childhood makes you a visitor in both the lands of your birth and your upbringing, able to navigate both, but at home in neither. When you choose this background, work with your GM to determine the circumstances of your youth. Who raised you and for what purpose? Do you know the terms of the exchange? Do you still serve the creature that raised you? If not, did you part on good terms? Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Survival Languages: Two of your choice; one from the land of your birth and one from the land of your upbringing Equipment: A token from your birth parents and a token from your guardian, a small knife, a set of common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp Guardian, of Sorts Your guardian was a nefarious weaver of webs, and you were drawn into their schemes from an early age. Choose who raised you, and why, or roll on the table below. D8 Guardian 1 A pair of hags schooled me in dark rituals seeking to make me the third member of their coven. 2 A duplicitous devil trained me to be a clever and capable agent in their employ. 3 A fallen angel thought I would become a prophesied holy warrior and tried to corrupt me. 4 A sinister satyr used me as bait to lead other people into perilous situations. 5 A bloodthirsty fiend trained me to serve in their army. 6 A twisted spirit taught me to hunt intruders in the liminal spaces between the planes. 7 A vain fairy monarch trained me in subterfuge and tasked me with undermining their rivals. 8 A plane-traveling pirate raised me to be part of their crew. Option: Rejection Some traded children happily serve their guardians, while others yearn to be rid of them. Whether you rejected villainy or decided that you’d make a better villain on your own, if you left your guardian, choose how, or roll on the table below. D4 Rejection 1 You sabotaged one of your guardian’s schemes in a way that publicly humiliated them. 2 You defected to one of your guardian’s rivals. 3 You found a loophole in the pact that bound you to your guardian, invalidating the agreement. 4 You slipped away from your guardian’s home without being noticed and never looked back. Feature: Between Worlds You are tethered to both the plane of your birth and that of your upbringing. When you are on one of those planes, you instinctively know the distance and direction of the closest portal to the other plane, though your GM may rule that passing through the portal requires resources or rituals you don’t currently possess. Additionally, whenever you need to determine your native plane, such as for the banishment spell, you can choose either one. Finally, you always know when you are speaking to a creature from the plane you were raised in, even if the speaker is concealing their identity. Suggested Characteristics Traded children are raised without many of the cultural touchstones of their birth plane, and often struggle to fit in with their own kind. Owing to their harsh upbringings, they tend to be self-reliant and slow to trust. D8 Personality Trait 1 I use analogies and figures of speech from the plane where I was raised that don’t make sense elsewhere. 2 I can never know too many languages, collect too many contacts, or own too many maps. 3 I have visions of a place I’ve never been to and feel compelled to depict it in art. 4 I never make promises or sign contracts, even when I’m sure I would follow through. 5 I have an endless catalog of time-tested ruses and love to ply them. 6 I’m a helpless romantic for tales about found family. 7 I act like I’m negotiating a difficult contract even when a conversation is casual. 8 I hold myself to impossible standards and take pride in usually meeting them. D6 Ideal 1 Integrity. A contract is a contract. If I give my word, I always follow through. (Law) 2 Protection. The world needs to be defended from treacherous creatures like my guardian. (Good) 3 Schadenfreude. Everyone else should suffer the way I did, and I want to see it happen. (Evil) 4 Trickery. If you’re not smart enough to see through my schemes, then I deserve your wealth. (Evil) 5 Family. My family may not be conventional, but it’s worth fighting for. (Neutral) 6 Solace. I must work to make peace with who I was and what I’ve done. (Any) D6 Bond 1 I owe a great debt to my guardian. 2 I will find my birth parents and make them answer for abandoning me. 3 I grew up alongside another traded child who became my closest friend. 4 I grew up alongside another traded child who became my bitterest rival. 5 My birth parents gave me up to protect me from someone else. That person must be stopped. 6 I can only ever rely on myself; everything else could disappear in an instant. D6 Flaw 1 Agreements are meant to be exploited and twisted to my benefit. 2 I latch onto anyone that shows me kindness, even if I know that they are bad news. 3 I never tell anyone anything true about myself, even my real name, lest they use it against me later. 4 I don’t believe in compromise; someone has to win in every exchange. 5 I get visibly nervous around creatures that are smarter or cleverer than I am. 6 I am constantly hunted by either my guardian or their fiercest rival (choose one).

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

