# Transformed

**description**: Life is change, that's nothing new. But what happened to you goes far beyond normal life experiences. During the rebirth of your world in the dimension of Braythe, you went through a metamorphosis. Not just the world changed, you did - physically. After surviving the apocalypse, you were literally not the same person anymore. Maybe you liked the change, maybe you felt like your entire identity was stolen from you. In either case, you had to adapt, forced to find a new understanding of yourself, a new idea of who you are. This was tough, but it made you learn things: What truly defines a person, for example, or looking at things from different perspectives. Note that this background is designed specifically for characters that went through some kind of physical metamorphosis. If this isn't true for your character, work with your game master to adapt the background to your needs. Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Survival Tool Proficiencies and Languages: Choose two of the following: Artisan's Tools, Gaming Set, Forgery Kit, one language Equipment: A pouch containing 5 gp A set of commoner's clothes A Diplomat's Pack or a Scholar's Pack Deep Insight: After you went through a metamorphosis, your path of finding your new self gave you a deep insight. This newfound wisdom gave you a better understanding of the mind or soul. This could help you be more resilient, or get along better with others, or even give you an edge in negotiations. Work with your game master to define the specific insight and how it might impact the campaign. Suggested characteristics: You might have lost yourself for a time - but you found your way again. You know more about who you are than before, and you are also good at understanding other people. This doesn't necessarily mean that you are very social, only that you are a good observer. Whether you are an introvert or an extrovert, you take your time for looking inward every day of your life. Traits I accept new challenges as a part of life. I trust that there is always a way out of trouble. I have found serenity. Even in the midst of chaos and disaster, I remain calm. I have found an important truth, and I love to share it. I understand that everyone has a reason for their behaviour - even if I disapprove of it. My understanding of the mind and soul helps me to influence others in ways that are helpful for me. I believe that I changed for a reason, a greater fate that has yet to unfold. Sometimes, I'm so deep in my own thoughts that I don't notice when others talk to me. The insights I found are only the beginning. I am at the start of an exciting journey of understanding. Ideals Wisdom. I seek to understand the nature of all living things to find the good in them. (Good) Logic. Emotions, needs, desires, the very nature of the soul - all this follows rules, and these rules can be understood. (Lawful) Curiosity. Everyone might have an interesting insight. I often talk with people or befriend them even if - or because - they are very different, possibly even have values and philosophies contradicting my own. (Chaotic) Manipulation. I love to understand others so I can better use them to achieve my own goals. (Evil) Tolerance. Everyone has reasons for their behaviour. I don't judge, even if I feel the need to act against them. (Neutral) Learning. Life means learning, and growing. Every observation I make is a chance for deeper understanding. (Any) Bonds I have found more questions than answers, and one of these questions bothers me every day. I dedicate my life to finding my truth. In my old life, I was involved in something evil. I changed, and now I seek to stop my former comrades. I believe that even the darkest villain is capable of goodness. I avoid to kill if I can, because every life has value. My family or the community I grew up in survived - but I was the only one who went through a metamorphosis. They pushed me away because I became so different, and I still suffer because of it. I believe that teaching children my insights is the best way to shape a better world, and I love to talk to them. I seek wisdom not just for myself. I am working on a series of books that I hope will one day change the world. Flaws I get distracted by people's stories. I might forget asking important questions because I focused on personal insights too much. I believe that my personal insights should be everyone's insights, and I push them onto others - whether they want to or not. I am so curious about others that I often ignore boundaries, and ask questions that are far too personal. I sometimes play with people's feelings just to see how they react. I have a terrible or shameful secret, and the people from my old life know about it. I have to avoid them at any cost. I have been changed to serve a great fate. This makes me more important than others.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

