# Treasure Seeker

**description**: Treasure Seeker Lost treasure and valuable relics brought you to Drakkenheim. Perhaps the prospect of earning more gold than you can spend in your lifetime is too tantalizing to pass up, or alternatively you may seek items for their historical or religious significance. Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and one choice from the following: Stealth, Insight, or Perception Equipment: Thieves’ tools, a set of dark clothes with a hood and a face covering. A signet ring of a fake lord, a fake identification, a set of weighted dice, and a deck of cards. Tool Proficiencies: Thieves’ tools, cartographer’s tools Feature: Detail-Oriented You double your proficiency bonus when making any ability check to search the ruins of Drakkenheim. Treasure Hunters’ Secrets (1d8) 1 You keep a cryptic map to a lost treasure that you have always wanted to uncover. 2 You have a coin that is heads on both sides, helpful for winning a chance game. 3 You have a magnifying spyglass you use to examine items. 4 You have a ring that opens to reveal a small compartment inside. 5 Your left boot has a compartment for a hidden dagger. 6 You carry an old compass that doesn’t point north, you hope it points towards a great treasure. 7 You have a collection of exotic coins and medals that are of personal value to you. 8 You have a rival treasure hunter who used to be a partner. You parted ways years ago. Personality Trait (1d8) 1 I believe that I am destined for greatness, and nothing can convince me otherwise. 2 I always have a plan or plot to outwit my foes. It may not always be good, but it’s almost always overly complex. 3 I love to flaunt my wealth and showcase the things I have bought with it. 4 I pay no mind to the risks of a situation. I always bet on myself and my abilities and it’s gotten me this far. Never tell me the odds. 5 I have a quip, allegory, or joke for almost any situation. 6 I lie about anything and everything. I lie for almost no reason at all, sometimes just to see if I can fool the people around me. 7 I use flattery and honeyed words to get what I want. 8 I can’t help it if valuable objects lying around end up in my pockets. It’s for safe keeping. Ideal (1d6) 1 Independent. No one tells me what to do. I make my own rules, and my own luck. (Chaotic) 2 Fair. I do not take anything from anyone who couldn’t afford to lose it. I am a treasure hunter, not a thief. (Lawful) 3 Family. I care about material possessions and wealth, but not as much as I care about my friends and family. (Good) 4 Aspiration. Wealth is power. Wealth means you will be remembered. In this world making a name for yourself is as simple as acquiring enough gold to buy your way to victory. I intend to be remembered. (Any) 5 Danger. Every great discovery requires risk. The greater the risk, the greater the reward. It’s the thrill of the hunt that I live for. (Any) 6 Dignity. The dead and their prized belongings deserve more than to waste away in the ruins. They deserve to be found, remembered, and taken care of. (Lawful) Bond (1d6) 1 My desire for wealth is out of a need to protect my family. 2 Something important to me was stolen. I’ve longed to get it back ever since. 3 I’m wanted for my many crimes and hope that where I am going, the law will not follow. 4 I made mistakes in my past that cost me the life of someone I loved. I will not let that happen again. 5 I plan to be the greatest thief or most cunning explorer of all time. 6 This is my last job, the big one. After this I hope to settle down with my wealth, maybe start a family. Flaw (1d6) 1 My entire identity is layers of falsities presented to hide my true self, for I am not a good person. I’ve never told the truth for as long as I can remember and it’s too late now to stop. 2 Every situation, every person, is only as valuable to me as what I can gain from them. I’m not afraid to pull strings to bend luck in my favour. 3 I jump to defensive measures as soon as someone catches me in a lie, or tries to call me out for anything. 4 I take what I want, and I want it all. 5 I like to show my skills, talk big, and take big risks in the hopes of impressing everyone watching. 6 I know for a fact I am the smartest person in the room, and if people are suggesting anything otherwise they are terribly mistaken. Variant Treasure Seeker: Soldier of Fortune Rather than seeking your fortune from finding treasure, you seek yours by hunting down the brigands, outlaws, and monsters that now hide in Drakkenheim. You often take up dangerous bounties and follow wanted posters as long as the price is right. Danger is second nature to you and the horrors of the city are nothing compared to the thrill of the hunt, and the coin it can gain you.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 21300

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Dungeons of Drakkenheim

