# True Apologizer

**description**: As a true apologizer, you are genuinely accountable for your actions. You’re interested in correcting your misdeeds and improving the lives of those you hurt in tangible ways. You can replace the forgery kit proficiency with another artisan’s tool of your choice, and include that tool in your equipment package instead. Choose or randomly determine your reason for turning away from villainy by rolling on the Moment of Epiphany table. Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Stealth Tool Proficiencies: Forgery kit Languages: One of your choice Equipment: Forgery kit, a letter of agreement between you and the people you wronged, and a pouch containing 20 gp Moment of Epiphany D6 Moment Of Epiphany 1 I saw the cost of my actions and I couldn’t bring myself to continue. 2 I was defeated in combat and villainy is no longer an option. Everyone who supported my villainy left me and I became disillusioned with the path of evil. 3 Someone I respect showed me the error of my ways. 4 My nefarious schemes went horribly wrong and I reconsidered my life choices. 5 This is the first time in my life that it is safe for me to leave villainy behind. 6 I realized I don’t need villainy to get what I want. Variant Feature: Advocate To atone for your villainy, the people you hurt have asked you to use your power to benefit them. You can make compelling arguments driven by your intimate knowledge of the situation and your commitment to making things right. When you interact socially with others and you are trying to convince them to help you fulfill your promise, you have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks. Suggested Characteristics False apologizers are conscious of their reputations and are aware of what others might think of them. Some are guarded and insecure about their misdeeds, whereas others are more open and comfortable discussing their past. D8 Personality Trait 1 I proudly introduce myself as a former villain everywhere I go, and I enjoy the shocked reaction I receive every time. 2 I dress in unremarkable, plain clothing to show humility and sincerity, and I keep my weapons hidden. 3 I always tip shopkeepers and service workers. 4 I am unerringly polite, even when I am insulted. 5 I rarely apologize for mundane mistakes because I don’t want to cheapen the meaning of the apology for my villainy. 6 I can hold my own in battle against enemies three times my size. I’m confident in my combat prowess. I believe I can win any fight, no matter the odds. 7 I don’t help others for praise or thanks, but I never turn down a compliment. 8 I’m used to having others do things for me and I fumble with basic tasks. D6 Ideal 1 Choices. Actions matter more than words. (Any) 2 Honesty. Everyone must know the truth about what I did and what I am doing to atone for it. (Good) 3 Indifference. Third-party opinions are unimportant and irrelevant. (Neutral) 4 Justice. Those who were wronged should decide the perpetrator’s fate. (Lawful) 5 Power. Only the foolish accept apologies. (Evil) 6 Self-image. I’ll put myself in harm’s way if it makes me look more sympathetic. (Chaotic) D6 Bond 1 No matter how notorious I become, the people closest to me know who I really am, and that is all that matters. 2 The people I hurt deserve everything I can give them, and more. I care only for myself and my good deeds are incidental.. 3 My victims gave me a second chance, and I will never forget their kindness. 4 My life belongs to the community I serve. 5 I must impress someone of a higher social standing than me. 6 The people in my hometown face unfair prejudices because of me and I’ll correct that. D6 Flaw 1 I miss my days of true villainy, when I had the power to do what I wanted with impunity. 2 I could walk away from my apology any time I want, and I am sometimes tempted to do so. 3 I talk about my villainous past a bit too casually. 4 I’m still not used to being held accountable and my immediate impulse is to defend myself from any accusation. 5 Being told that my efforts aren’t good enough puts me in a foul mood. 6 I constantly have to curb my desire to be the center of attention.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Lone Colossus Games

**book**: Injuries and Vile Deeds

