# Undertaker

**description**: Undertakers play a vital role in any functioning society. Every settlement needs someone to bury the dead and conduct funerals. Ensuring the dead are buried properly stops them rising as undead, and more importantly, keeps the gods happy. The work may not be glamorous, but no one can deny it's important. Those who work with the dead often provide spiritual counsel and support to their community. Do you follow a particular faith, or accept all? Do you burials follow the rituals of a specific culture, or do you know prayers and rites from around the world? Do you do what you do out of love for your people, respect for the dead, or fear of the gods? Do you believe your work is sacred, or did you long to leave it behind you and start a life of adventure? Skill Proficiencies: Religion and Medicine Tool Proficiencies: Carpenter's Tools Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of common clothes, a book of burial songs, rites, and prayers, a shovel, four candles, a vial of holy water, a holy symbol, and 2 gp. Feature: Psychopomp You have ties to a religious group who watch the dead, they can help you discover informations about a local death, inform you of local religious practices, and even assist with casting certain Cleric spells at your DM's discretion. An example of such would be, Ceremony, Augury, and Speak with Dead. Optional Trait: Omen Magnet Strange omens follow you wherever you go. Omen d6 Omen 1 Fires go out when you walk past 2 Clouds darken at your approach 3 Ravens follow you 4 People near you can hear strange whispers 5 Flowers wilt at your touch 6 Cats hiss at you, and run from your shadow Suggested Characteristics Undertakers spend a lot of time among the dead, and as such may be quiet, dour, and contemplative. Or, given that they know how quick things can end, might strive to be cheerful, optimistic, and friendly. All undertakers respect the dead, and the rites and rituals that go with burying them. d8 Personality Trait 1 I try to live each day to the fullest. 2 I abhor violence, and war most of all. 3 I trust in the gods, and start and end each day with a prayer. 4 I have an almost scientific interest in bodies. 5 I constantly remind everyone that death is inevitable. 6 I'm more comfortable around the dead than the living. 7 I'm a libertine, and enjoy fine food and drink whenever I can. 8 I quote religious scripture wherever relevant. And sometimes not so relevant. d6 Ideal 1 Tradition. There are rites that must always be said over the dead. (Law) 2 Freedom. We're all born, we all die. Everything in between is up to us. (Chaotic) 3 Murder. It is the will of the gods that all things must die. I help. (Evil) 4 Nature. Death is natural, part of the cycle of nature. (Neutral) 5 Acceptance. Death comes to all of us, and should not be resisted. (Any) 6 Respect. All the dead, no matter who they were in life, deserve respect. (Good) d6 Bond 1 I'll fight to save people from dying before their time. 2 Undead are abominations that should be destroyed. 3 My religious order gives me comfort, support, and purpose. I'll protect them however I can. 4 I seek to have one last conversation with my late master. 5 I work to help people be less afraid of death. 6 All life is worth preserving. d6 Flaw 1 I'm secretly terrified of death. I'll do anything to prolong my own life. 2 I take something from everyone I bury. 3 I have grown callous, and no longer believe in the sanctity of life. 4 I believe I know when I will die, and so I take dangerous risks. 5 I believe my god is more important and powerful than any other. 6 I have no tact, and talk about death openly and bluntly.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

