# Utaku Family - Unicorn Clan

**description**: There is no finer heavy cavalry in the Empire than the Battle Maidens. These skilled champions are exceptional riders, capable of incredible martial feats of prowess even against long odds. The sight of a single Battle Maiden arriving at the field has been said to have turned many battles in the Unicorn Clan’s history. The Utaku family not only trains these elite warriors, but also sees to their steeds, the legendary horses of the Blessed Herd who carry only worthy riders into battle. Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or musical instrument, mounts. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani and Ujik. Equipment: Traveling clothes, wakizashi, spear, any one artisan tool or musical instrument, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Child of the Five Winds You were raised in the Unicorn Clan, granting you the Clan of Shinjo’s unique perspective on the world. You gain the following benefits: You have an idea of politics outside the borders of Rokugan, which types of governments rule foreign lands, major conflicts between other countries, and what type of foreign imports make their way into Rokugan. You know many basic facts of life about foreign lands, particularly the Burning Sands, the Ivory Kingdoms, and beyond from stories your family has passed down of your ancestors who traveled to those lands. You know at least some foreign words from numerous languages, such as Nehiri, Ivindi, Myantu, and Portuga. You are not fully conversant in these languages unless you select them as known languages, but you can often discern a bit of meaning from familiar words. You know the basics of mounted combat tactics, along with various other aspects of the proper handling and care of horses. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Unicorn Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Utaku Battle Maiden School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Utaku Battle Maiden tradition, make Strength and Constitution your highest ability scores. Begin in the bushi class, selecting Protector at 3rd level. Consider selecting the Animal Companion feat for a bond with a loyal steed. Put the rest of your levels into bushi to maximize your combat potential, or consider putting several levels into pilgrim to unlock the Path of Redemption archetype to reflect the spiritual side of your quest.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

