# Veteran Soldier

**description**: The Last Age is an age of constant warfare. All of the lands of Eredane are mobilized for total war, and nearly every individual capable of fighting has been drafted into the armies. The elves and dwarves both throw themselves into a desperate struggle for survival, while in the north, the orcs have long since been forced to live in a completely militarized society. Even in the occupied lands, many humans are drafted into Izrador’s armies or fight as mercenaries, while plenty of refugees have joined the free armies to fight for their adopted homes. You are a veteran of that ongoing war, whether you are still a member of a military, or have long since left the ranks. Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Perception Weapon Proficiencies: One martial weapon of your choice Equipment: A uniform with an insignia of rank, a sturdy pair of boots, a bedroll, a backpack, and one week of trail rations Feature: Military Rank You have a military rank from your career as a soldier. Soldiers loyal to your current or former military organization still recognize your authority and influence, and they defer to you if they are of lower rank. You can invoke your rank to exert influence over other soldiers and requisition simple equipment for temporary use, and you usually gain access to friendly camps and fortresses. However, the higher your former rank, the more your enemies want to kill you, or to capture and interrogate you. The armies of the elves and dwarves are worn down and have been bled dry over a century of fighting. Most soldiers in them are weary veterans, and new recruits learn quickly or die. In these armies, veterancy is respected almost as much as rank, and many people of higher rank have the experience to accompany it. Amongst the Shadow’s rigid military structure, rank is earned by killing foes and then challenging a former officer to a duel. These duels are always to the death. Variant Feature: Old Veteran If your character has the veteran soldier background, you may select this background feature instead of Military Rank. You’ve had plenty of experience with the army you left, and a lot of it gave you knowledge of the many ways in which the organization is dysfunctional. You can pretend to be a member of that military organization, and you always know how to find those among the ranks who sell contraband; soldiers who can be easily bribed; and soldiers willing to trade weapons, armor, or other military equipment in exchange for small luxuries. However, if discovered, you face execution. None of the armies in the Last Age look favorably on deserters. Variant Veteran Soldier: Deserter Though you were once a soldier, you could no longer fight in the unending meat grinder of war. Perhaps you were tired of the slaughter and just had to leave. Or perhaps, as with orcs who realized just how much the Shadow was using them, you realized you could no longer fight in the name of an evil oppressor. Regardless, you left your military posting without permission, even though you knew it would cost you your life if you were caught. If you decide that you are a soldier who deserted from your former the military organization, you may choose the Old Veteran feature instead of the Military Rank feature. Suggested Characteristics The horrors of constant war and the unending struggle against the Shadow leave their mark on soldiers, no matter what side they fight on. d8 Personality Trait 1 I keep a tally of each foe I kill and will tell you about each one. 2 I’m haunted by my experiences in the war and feel like I can never escape reminders of the conflict. 3 I have no patience for new recruits or those who are raw and untested on the battlefield. 4 There’s the way you were taught to do things, and there’s the way I’ve learned to do them. You don’t have to listen to me, but my way will keep you alive. 5 I stay quiet and polite. I know I don’t have anything to prove to others. 6 When the fight is over, it’s time to eat, drink, and be merry. Let’s live well, because who knows if we’ll see tomorrow or not! 7 I tend to trust those who served alongside me implicitly. I tend to be suspicious of everyone else. 8 I don’t take any joy in fighting, and I’d rather avoid it if possible. d6 Ideal 1 Peace: All I really want is for the war to end, and all of us to live our own lives in peace. (Good) 2 Defend our Homes: I would lay down my life to defend my lands and my people who live on them. (Good) 3 Service: My role is to obey orders from my superiors, so long as they have the proper authority to issue them. (Lawful) 4 Champion: The more foes I kill, or the more duels I win, the more glory and authority I amass. (Evil) 5 Independence: I’ve seen what happens when people blindly follow orders, instead of listening to their heart. (Chaotic) 6 Pragmatism: Don’t waste my time with talks of glory and high-minded ideals. I do what needs to be done. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 I have saved the life of a comrade in arms just as often as they’ve saved mine. To this day, I trust them more than I trust anyone, including my own superior officers. 2 The survival of those I serve alongside with is my highest priority. I won’t risk their lives for anything, or anyone. 3 A leader of my people inspired me when I was just a child. To this day, I attempt to live up to that childhood ideal. 4 I fight for those who cannot fight for themselves. 5 I remember every inch of ground we have lost in this war. One day I will reclaim it all. 6 I rarely make an oath, but when I do, I stick by it. d6 Flaw 1 I have no time for someone who hasn’t fought in this war. 2 Fear still grips me whenever I see the enemy, just like the time it caused me to flee the battlefield. 3 I’ll do anything to defeat the enemy, even if it endangers others. 4 In war, mercy is a liability. 5 I’m blind to the mistakes and flaws of my people or the military I serve. 6 I hide my emotions behind crude jokes and rude comments lest others get too close.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

