# Vintner

**description**: Vintners make wine. Whether used in religious ceremonies, weddings, funerals, parties, or just to enjoy with dinner, wine makes up an integral part of society, and as such vintners enjoy a peculiar position of privilege. Is your wine delicious, sought after, and expensive? Or was it vile, barely tolerated, and cheap? You might work with your family, a partner, or a guild. You might be an important member of high society, invited to the most exclusive parties. Or you might fight to make a name for yourself, looking to prove that your wine is a cut above the competition. Why have you taken up the life of an adventurer? Did you make a bad batch and left town to avoid the shame? Did you drink all your wares? Or did you simply want to see the world (and maybe sell a few bottles while you're on the road)? Skill Proficiencies: Nature, and History or Persuasion Tool Proficiencies: Brewer's Supplies Languages: One of your choice Equipment: A set of fine clothes, brewer's supplies, three bottles of fine wine, and 10 gp. Feature: Wine Trader You can gift a bottle of wine (or several) for information about local events and persons of interest, or to tip the scales in your favor for social encounters. A bottle of your finest sent to the local baron might earn you an invite to dinner to discuss 'the dragon problem'. Suggested Characteristics Vintners are often artists, entrepreneurs, and laborers all rolled into one. Their work demands almost scientific rigor, poetry, and a keen sense of business. They often have close ties to nobility or wealthy patrons, and maintain good relationships with trade guilds and caravan owners. As such, they have many friends. Wine can open many doors, loosen tongues, and blur memories when it's time to leave in a hurry. d8 Personality Trait 1 I love wine, song, and a good time above all else. 2 I'm always interested in learning new recipes and techniques. 3 I prefer to solve problems over a drink instead of with violence. 4 I assume everyone has tried, or at least heard of my wine. 5 I am the latest in a long line of master vintners - and I let everyone know it. 6 I stole my formula from an old colleague. If word ever gets out, I'm ruined. 7 I'd rather raid a wine cellar than a tomb. 8 I wouldn't be seen dead in a rough part of town. d6 Ideal 1 Craft. A good wine is a thing of beauty, I'm always striving to improve my work. (Law) 2 Generosity. Everyone who wants a drink should have one. (Good) 3 Revelry. Life's a party, and the party should never end. (Chaotic) 4 Worship. I consider my work to be an act of worship of the God of wine. (Good) 5 Fame. Everyone should know my name and drink my wine. (Any) 6 Success. I'll do whatever it takes to be the best. Lying, sabotage, blackmail, as long as I get ahead. (Evil) d6 Bond 1 I strive to learn all I can about my craft. 2 I want my wine to be sold in all the great cities of the world. 3 My wine is only as good as the friends I share it with. 4 One day, the ruler of the land will drink my wine. 5 Every penny I make goes to the school where I trained. 6 Every drop of wine is sacred. It should never be wasted. d6 Flaw 1 I sample my own work a little too often. 2 I'm a snob when it comes to wine. And food. And music. And lodgings. And people. 3 I resent anyone who doesn't love my wine. 4 I love gossip, and can't resist spreading rumors. 5 I pretend to be more important and well-connected than I am. 6 I'm a perfectionist. Anything that isn't my best gets thrown away.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: David Serrano

**book**: Warriors of the New World

