# Wasteland Reaver

**description**: You grew up prowling the wastes as a member of a bandit gang, orc tribe, or similar warlike group. You spent much of your early life raiding and pillaging, plundering villages and merchant caravans. Then, at some point, you turned your back on this life to pursue the path of an adventurer. Skill Proficiencies: Stealth, Survival Tool Proficiencies: Choose any one of the following: cook’s utensils, leatherworker’s tools, thieves’ tools, or woodcarver’s tools Languages: Any one of your choice Equipment: A set of traveler’s clothes, a waterskin, a simple weapon, and a pouch filled with 10 gp FEATURE: A REAVER’S LIFE Your life as a brigand or outlaw has brought you a certain notoriety. You have advantage on Charisma (Intimidate) checks against those aware of your past, and most criminals and bandits will have a starting attitude of indifferent toward you. On the other hand, people like lawmakers and town guards will initially be hostile toward you until you can prove yourself to be trustworthy. You also know the location of various places within the wastes where you can hide or seek shelter. These locations should be relatively well hidden and free of monsters, hazards, and traps. You can choose up to three such locations when you take this background. SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS You lived a life of violence and excess, your only loyalty (if you had any) to your fellow reavers. You can either embrace your sordid past or free yourself from it. Ultimately, the choice is yours. You may choose from any of the following characteristics. Personality Trait d8 Personality Trait 1 I live every day to the fullest because it could be my last. 2 I take what I want when I want, laws be damned. 3 I’m no coward, but neither am I a fool. I will not risk my neck unless there is a profit to be made. 4 Allies are useful commodities. I even like some of them. 5 The wastes rewards those who are prepared. 6 I know every tavern between here and the eastern sea. 7 I am always looking over my shoulder for danger. 8 Profanities slip effortlessly from my lips. I have a comeback for every situation. Ideal d6 Ideal 1 Honor. I left my past behind me to take on the role of protector rather than predator. (Lawful) 2 Fame. I left the reavers to make a name for myself. (Neutral) 3 Freedom. I will not let laws or kings tell me what I can and cannot do. (Chaotic) 4 Charity. I must pay society back for all the ill I have inflicted upon it. (Good) 5 Might. Those weaker than me deserve no mercy or respect. (Evil) 6 Fun. Life is to be enjoyed. (Any) Bond d6 Bond 1 I would be dead in a ditch if it were not for my fellow reavers. I owe them everything. 2 A noble took pity on me and freed me from the gallows. 3 My fellow reavers left me for dead in a ditch. I will have my vengeance. 4 A cleric raised me from the dead to serve the cause of good. I will not let them down. 5 A pack of chaos trolls devoured every last member of my band. I will hunt down every last one of them until they are dead. 6 They are waiting out there for me somewhere: the person I will devote my life to. Flaw d6 Flaw 1 I am slow to trust and quick to anger. 2 I habitually curse and spit even in polite company. 3 I am a compulsive liar. I can never be trusted to tell the truth. 4 I think there is an enemy around every corner. It leaves me constantly feeling nervous and twitchy. 5 I betrayed those close to me. Their screams still haunt my nightmares. 6 I carve my name into those I kill.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

