# Wilding

**description**: As an infant, you were lost in the wild, either abandoned by your parents, kidnapped and left on your own, or by terrible random happenstance. After spending 5 years being raised by nature, you have a difficult time fitting in with civilized society. Skill Proficiencies : Athletics, Acrobatics, Animal Handling, Perception, and Survival. Language : Common. This is the only language you know, regardless of your race, and you still speak in broken sentences. Equipment : A set of makeshift clothes, a pouch, a club, a torch, and a trinket from the wild. Feature: Wild at Heart You can communicate with the type of animal with which you were raised, and they will follow any basic requests that will not harm them. You can ask them questions about things they have seen and get basic yes or no answers. This type of animal considers you as kin and will always protect you as allies. You may choose any animal from this list, and the environment in which you lived in the wild will be a native area for that animal: wolf, bear, monkey, snow leopard, fox, or hyena. Suggested Characteristics You have always felt out of place, and now that you are where you belong, you feel it even more so. Everything considered civilized is new to you, and you vary between frightened and excited to learn new things. d8 Personality 1 When I learn new words, I repeat them incessantly. 2 I love to climb. 3 I have a quick temper. 4 I behave like the animal that raised me. 5 I am fearless of the wild. 6 I need my personal space. 7 I am very shy. 8 I love animals but will hunt if I am hungry. d6 Ideal 1 Friendship. I value companionship. (Good) 2 Freedom. I don’t like to be cooped up indoors. (Chaotic) 3 Preservation. I don’t talk to strangers. (Neutral) 4 Nature. I honor the wild. (Neutral) 5 Honor. I will protect those who have protected me. (Neutral) 6 Simplicity. I do not care about material wealth. (Neutral) d6 Bond 1 I wear a bracelet given to me by my human parents. 2 I consider the one who rescued me from the wild as my new parent. 3 A hunter killed one of my animal siblings, and I seek revenge. 4 I want to find my birth family. 5 I am scared that if I go back to the wild, I will be left there again. 6 I will learn to be civilized. d6 Flaw 1 I am scared of fire. 2 I scratch my body like an animal. 3 I don’t like to share. 4 I am suspicious of everyone. 5 I think all food I see is free for the taking. 6 I am too impulsive.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

