# Wildlander

**description**: When Izrador invaded the lands of humanity at the dawn of the Last Age, a number of people were living as rangers and explorers on the edge of civilization. Rather than facing the Shadow, these individuals saw the war as lost and fled into the wilds. You are a descendant of these wildlanders, and long ago you learned that the occupied cities were just as dangerous as the wilderness lands. However, you are well aware of the history of how your ancestors fled the Shadow. Whether you felt they made the right decision at the time or you are ashamed of what you perceive as cowardice, you know the time to fight back has now come. Skill Proficiencies: Perception, Survival Languages: Trader’s Tongue, plus one other of your choice Equipment: A staff, a set of sturdy traveler’s clothes, a backpack, two weeks of trail rations, and a hunting trap Feature: Survivalist The lands of Eredane are rugged and wild, and they become more dangerous each year. You know how to survive in these lands and what threats to avoid. You always know when you are near natural predators or hostile creatures such as monstrosities, the Fell, or the Fallen, and you can tell when lands are blighted by magic. If there is a best route to avoid encountering these, you know what that is as well. You can also always find shelter from bad weather. Finally, you know when an animal is acting suspiciously (for instance, if it has been possessed by an astirax). Suggested Characteristics Some who live in Eredane still resent wildlanders for their ancestors’ “betrayal.” Others see wildlanders as dangerous and untrustworthy. In turn, most wildlanders dislike and fear the occupied cities, as they see visiting them as a good way to be killed or captured out of hand by the Shadow’s armies. Even the last free cities of the elves and dwarves are unpleasant, desperate places that are only good for huddling in until the Shadow’s armies arrive. d8 Personality Trait 1 I can survive better in the wild places of Eredane than I can in any city, and I can ensure the Shadow will never find me there. 2 I always let someone else speak first, so I can gauge what they have to say. 3 I have no patience for people who can’t survive on their own. 4 When I get angry at someone, I tend to growl at them. 5 Stillness is survival. I can spend hours without moving a muscle so that I go unnoticed. 6 I like chatting and joking with people, even if I’m not very good at understanding social cues! 7 Although most people don’t trust animals because of the Shadow’s minions, I love all manner of beasts and show them affection that I don’t show people. 8 I tend to offer the simplest and most direct solution to any problem. d6 Ideal 1 Nature: The gods may have abandoned Aryth, but in the wild spaces I manage to find a kind of divinity. (Neutral) 2 Adaptability: As the Shadow continues to cover Eredane, we must be quick to change in order to survive. (Chaotic) 3 Survival of the Fittest: Just like in the wilderness, I kill what I have to and take what I need to survive. (Evil) 4 Balance: Izrador is too strong, and his minions have overthrown the natural order. He must be beaten back so that the wilderness can survive. (Lawful) 5 Life: The Shadow brings death and disease. In the wilderness, far from it’s reach, life continues, and I work to ensure that is always the case. (Good) 6 Self-Improvement: If I’m going to live alone, then it’s up to me to be the best person I can. (Good) d6 Bond 1 Long ago, my ancestors fled into the wilderness when the Shadow came. Now it’s time for me to rectify their failure and fight. 2 There is an unspoiled tract of wild lands that only I know about. I work to keep it pristine and free of any people. 3 I was once saved by a tribe of dire animals. I befriended them and now do what I can to help them. 4 The Fell are an unnatural plague on a land already ruined by war. I pledge to hunt them down and put them to rest whenever possible. 5 I seek to leave my isolated sojourn behind and build a family and community in a world free of the Shadow. 6 There are still many secret places of power in the wilderness. I pledge to find them and protect them from falling into Izrador’s clutches. d6 Flaw 1 I distrust and fear those who are not familiar to me. 2 Although I want to see Izrador defeated, I have been happy to watch the cities and other centers of civilization be destroyed or slowly rot and decay. 3 My dreams are haunted by thoughts of savage, bloody acts. 4 I am loathe to go anywhere unarmed, even if it may draw the attention of the Shadow’s minions. 5 First and foremost, I look out for myself. 6 I am uncomfortably blunt and forthright, even when my opinions may bring danger.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Legacy of Darkness

