# Wind-Touched

**description**: There are legends within the Wood, of birdfolk blessed by the wind who are destined to soar over any and all obstacles. When a chick is born with special markings or unique feather patterns, or when they survive a dramatic childhood event, some folks brand them “Wind-Touched”. Though a few dismiss the notion of the Wind-Touched as superstition, others heap reverence upon those believed chosen. According to legend, one who is touched by the wind will never feel at ease anywhere but high in the forest canopy, with the wind in their feathers. Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics, Performance Tool Proficiencies: one type of wind Musical Instrument Languages: you can speak as well as understand Auran Equipment: a wind Musical Instrument (one of your choice), an ornate cloak, a symbol of the wind, common clothes, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp Title and Blessing For some birdfolk, the moniker of Wind-Touched is merely a title, a symbol of their devotion to the wind and the natural world. Others have been told since birth that they were blessed by the wind, much in the way the Amaranthine Reya was in the old tales. Decide what your character believes, or roll on the table below to understand how they feel. d6 Acceptance 1 I am truly blessed and have power over the wind itself. 2 I am devoted to the wind spirits, in action and title. 3 I believe in nature and goodness. 4 I will work tirelessly to earn the respect of those who give me this title. 5 I accept this honor but have my doubts. 6 I feel nothing for this title, and carry it against my will. Feature: Supernatural Presence Whether or not you are truly Wind-Touched, there are folk all across Everden that believe that you have been divinely blessed. If you make a show of power or skill that can be attributed to the wind or air, such as feats of acrobatics or commanding unseen forces, those believers will be bolstered by your supernatural presence. They will support you and, depending on how well you have convinced them of your powers, treat you with reverence and possibly even worship. Suggested Characteristics The wind-touched are revered by believers and scrutinized by skeptics. For better or worse, they find themselves in a world of expectations they struggle to live up to. d8 Personality Trait 1 I never back down from a challenge. 2 I always end up being the center of attention. 3 I am gifted by the wind and destined for greatness. 4 I have no time for those who doubt me. 5 I seek out challenges to test myself. 6 I am better than everyone else. 7 I avoid showing my power at all costs. 8 I remain humble despite my blessing. d6 Ideal 1 Responsibility. The powers I have been gifted with are meant to serve the common good. (Good) 2 Heroism. The wind chose me to be a brave warrior and leader, so shall it be. (Lawful) 3 Egotism. My powers situate me above others. The masses should know their place. (Evil) 4 Mysticism. Connected to nature, I speak for the wind and divine its will for others. (Neutral) 5 Cynicism. What matters isn’t whether or not my powers are genuine, but what advantages I can reap because of that belief. (Evil) 6 Naturalism. The wind speaks to my soul, and I am bound to go wherever it directs me. (Chaotic) d6 Bond 1 I am guided by a wise elder who prepares me for my destiny. 2 I am estranged from my parents who don’t believe in my blessing. 3 I seek to discredit the person who burdened me with this moniker. 4 I live in the shadow of my mentor, seeking their approval. 5 I have a sibling who is not blessed, which causes tension. 6 I am one with the wind. Personal relationships are fleeting. d6 Flaw 1 I can’t accept another’s suggestion once I’ve set my path. 2 I expect nothing less than reverence from common people. 3 I blindly trust in the power of my blessing. 4 I am overly concerned about how others see me. 5 I will prove my worth, even if it means putting myself and my friends in danger. 6 I am burdened with responsibility, and find it hard to make even the simplest decisions. Coupled with Power While this background primarily focuses on the beliefs and perceptions of yourself and your community, pairing this background with a character who actually can manipulate the wind through magic could potentially set them up to become a holy figure, a prophet, or a fabled hero.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Hit Point Press

**book**: Humblewood

