# Xie Long Gu - Non-Rokugani

**description**: Surrounded by impenetrable mountains lies Xiē Lóng Gǔ, a beautiful valley in an eternal state of springtime. Xiē Lóng Gǔ, or the Valley of Slumbering Dragons as inhabitants of Rokugan often refer to it, can only be entered or exited via a series of tunnels both natural and man-made that extend through the neighboring mountain ranges. Xiē Lóng Gǔ is the most heavily guarded place in Yún Fēng Guó. The bodies of the land’s emperors are interred here in palatial tombs made entirely of spirit jade. Many imperial bodyguards choose to guard their emperors past death. Through spirit jade alchemy and magics unknown to Rokugan, they are transformed into imposing clay golems, immune to the rigors of time as they take up their post defending the tunnels, city, and palace of tombs. The people of Yún Fēng Guó believe that the many gods of the Heavens will one day walk among mortals and wage wars of cataclysmic proportions. When that day comes, their fallen emperors will arise to defend and lead their people in the ensuing chaos. Lured by the promise of gold, magical artifacts, and spirit jade in the emperor’s tombs, many bandits dream of entering the valley and leaving with its wealth. Those foolhardy enough to make an attempt are hunted down ruthlessly by elite soldiers and terracotta golems. The people of Xiē Lóng Gǔ take their duty to maintain the tombs of the emperors with the utmost reverence. They are skilled architects, warriors, and scientists. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool, vehicles (land). Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani, Yún Fēng Wén, and one other language of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia or sanctified vestments, any one simple weapon, any one artisan tool, and 8 gp. Suggested Feats: Battlefield Training, Paragon, Watchful Ancestors. Background Feature: Neutral Party You have certain advantages due to being an outsider who is not implicated in local politics, such as: You have a general awareness of the political climate within your homeland. You know its forms of government, religions, and other organizations, as well as the various factions and individuals of note that strive to control these groups. You know the lay of the land where you grew up extremely well and know many people in that region. You know the trade that you grew up around well, even if you do not practice it yourself. Because you are from outside of Rokugan, members of Rokugani courts and other political organizations view you as being neutral to their conflicts. They do not assume that you favor a particular side, and might go to extra lengths to sway you to theirs if they think you are an asset who might help them.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

