# Yasuki Family - Crab Clan

**description**: The Yasuki family teaches its scions to use the tools of trade and industry to keep the Crab armies well equipped and fed, and not to let legal vagaries or bureaucratic inconveniences stand in the way of getting crucial jade used to fight Shadowlands creatures to bushi on the front lines. Some members of the Yasuki family take this to mean working with criminal enterprises, avoiding tariffs on river usage, and trade in the forbidden market, including foreign contraband, are all justifiable methods as long as they serve the war effort. The Yasuki trade network is vast, and members of this family can be found just about anywhere in the Empire, and in a few places beyond. This can put members of the Yasuki trade network in conflict with the magistrates of other clans or even other countries, some of whom view their operation as near-criminal and are likely to scrutinize Yasuki activity. Skill Proficiencies: Performance, choose one other Intelligence-based skill (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion). Tool Proficiencies: Any one artisan tool or tool of subterfuge. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also speak, read, and write Ivindi, Jindallaean, Qamari languages, or another foreign land’s language of your choice. Equipment: Resplendent regalia, unremarkable garb, wakizashi, iron fan or reinforced pipe, any one artisan tool or tool of subterfuge, and 12 gp. Background Feature: Know Your Enemy You grew up in the penumbra of the Shadowlands, and the threat it poses is second nature to you, granting you the following benefits: You know the signals with flares, flags, and smoke used along the Carpenter Wall, along with each one’s meaning. You can identify common Shadowlands creatures, such as the undead and lesser horrors, and you know how to dispatch them. You grew up hearing stories and songs of heroes who faced greater evils still, such as oni and Lost champions, and might have even seen one on the battlefield. You know all too well the whispered promises of power that pervade the Shadowlands and how to steel your soul against their call. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Crab Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Yasuki Merchant School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Yasuki school of trade, make Wisdom and Dexterity your highest ability scores, with Charisma as your third priority. Begin in the courtier class and select the Diplomat archetype at 3rd level. Focus on choosing rhetorical flourishes that give you access to information about your foes or leverage over them. From there, take three levels of either duelist—if you want to emphasize your mastery of the courts—or three levels of shinobi if you want to create a character who is focused on smuggling. Put the rest of your levels into courtier to round out your mastery of the social sphere.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds
- Expansion: 26129

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

