# Yogo Family - Scorpion Clan

**description**: Once belonging to the Phoenix Clan but now staunchly devoted to the Scorpion Clan’s cause, the Yogo family is often called “the most unfortunate family in the Empire:” each scion of their line is said to be cursed to betray the person, place, or ideal they love the most. To try to lift this curse, the Yogo family has spent generations relentlessly studying rituals of protection and mystic wards, through which they have mastered many techniques to identify and fight evil magic. As a result, the Yogo have over the centuries been tasked with sealing away many of the dangerous and powerful artifacts that have been created. It is said that they still hold several of the twelve Black Scrolls of Fu Leng, which the Scorpion Clan's Thunder carried away after the cataclysmic battle. Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, choose one other Wisdom-based skill (Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Perception, Survival). Tool Proficiencies: Calligraphy set, any one tool of subterfuge. Weapon Proficiencies: Wakizashi. Languages: You can read, sign, speak, and write Rokugani. You can also read and write Yogo Ciphers. Equipment: Unremarkable garb, wakizashi, mask, calligraphy set, any one tool of subterfuge, and 10 gp. Background Feature: Secrets and Subtleties You were raised in the Scorpion Clan and have a deep knowledge of the overt and covert sides of politics, granting you the following benefits: You know about the general state of political affairs between the clans. You know the major political players on the national stage, as well as their perceived strengths and weaknesses. You are aware of the most substantial criminal cartels in the Emerald Empire, especially as their interests overlap or conflict with those of the Scorpion Clan. You know about poisons, tools of assassination, and other less-than-legal means of pursuing goals. You know the state of court matters in the Imperial Capital. Suggested Feats A set of suggested feats that reflect the Scorpion Clan’s traditions and training can be found in chapter 5. Yogo Wardmaster School Quick Build If you want to quickly build a character trained in the Yogo school of rituals, make Intelligence and Wisdom your highest ability scores, followed by Constitution. Begin in the ritualist class, selecting the Artisan archetype at 2rd level and choosing Mystic Calligraphy or Spiritual Animation as your mystic craft. Put the rest of your levels into ritualist to maximize your spiritual powers, or consider taking two levels of shinobi to boost your stealth and utility abilities.

**properties**:
- Category: Backgrounds

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

