# Aldani

**description**: The aldani, or lobsterfolk, are a rare sight in the Forgotten Realms. These creatures resemble giant lobsters that walk upright and have humanoid faces save for the chitinous armour that clads them, and their eyestalks. Aldani vary in colour, red Aldani are common in Chult, and blue in the Trackless Sea. Aldani are peaceful yet xenophobic. The aldani of Chult live almost exclusively in the Aldani Basin, where they stay in seclusion from the surrounding sentient races. The lobsterfolk of the Trackless Sea are often found in monasteries in the pursuit of inner peace. Aldani Names Aldani take names similar to the local humans. Their primary language is Common, thus taking human names is easy for them. Despite this, lobsterfolk can communicate through a second language, a series of clacks and snaps produced by their pincers. An individual aldani might have a series of sounds it uses instead. Aldani care little for family lines, nor do they make any distinction between genders or sexes, thus all aldani use a single, unisex name. Aldani Traits Your aldani character has the following traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by 2, and your Strength score increases by 1. Age. Aldani mature at the same rate as humans, but can live up to twice as long, around 200 years. Alignment. Aldani live in peaceful societies that follow strict, non-violent codes of conduct, save for organised duels. They tend toward lawful and neutral alignments. Size. Aldani are around 8 feet long, rising to a height of 5 feet or so. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 20 feet. You have a swim speed of 30 feet. Amphibious. You can breathe air and water. Darkvision. You have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. Claws. Your enormous pincers are natural weapons, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, you deal slashing damage equal to 1d8 + your Strength modifier. A target hit by your claw attack is grappled. You have two claws, each of which can grapple only one target. The escape DC for this grapple is 8 + your proficiency modifier + your Strength modifier. Underwater Adaptation. You ignore any drawbacks caused by an underwater environment. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

