# Alseid

**description**: Alseid are graceful woodland cousins to centaurs, blending the torsos of elves with the lower bodies of nimble deer. Because they rarely venture far from their wooded glades, some call them “grove nymphs,” although they’re more closely related to elves than nymphs. Alseid see the forest as an individual and a friend. They are suspicious of outsiders who do not share this view. Lost travelers who demonstrate deep respect for the forest may spot a distant alseid’s white tail and chase after it as it bounces toward a road that leads out of the forest. Disrespectful strangers may follow the same tail to their doom. Branching Crowns Alseid have antlers growing from their foreheads. Antlers grow very slowly, branching every 10 years for the first century of life (so an alseid with six points per antler should be between 60 and 70 years old). Further points only develop with the blessing of the forest. No 14-point imperial alseid are known to exist, but many tribes are governed by princes with 13 points, indicating that they’ve done a great service to the forest on at least three occasions. Because antlers signify status, alseid don’t fight with them the way deer do. Cutting an alseid’s antlers is one of the direst punishments an alseid can receive. Elf rangers sometimes report seeing lone alseid exiles, wandering the Margreve, their antlers sawn off near the scalp. Ancient Magic and Nature’s Champions Alseid have a deep connection with ancient forests and the powerful natural magic inherent in them. Alseid leaders favor the druid and ranger classes, and sorcerers and Old Wood warlocks (see the Class Options chapter) often arise from deep forest glades infused with energy. Alseid Names Alseid name their offspring using a combination of Elvish and Sylvan syllables. Their names are often extremely long, and many alseid choose shorter nicknames for themselves when speaking with people who aren’t alseid, elves, or fey. Alseid do not have family names. Individual Names: Roanxilana (Anxi), Erymleetidoral (Erym), Sarioneldorivh (Dorivh), Thanarifaren (Anari), Levesaelynore (Salyn), Nalesariabella (Abella) Alseid Traits Your alseid character has certain characteristics in common with all other alseid. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1. Age. Alseid reach maturity by the age of 20. They can live well beyond 100 years, but it is unknown just how old they can become. Size. Alseid stand over 6 feet tall and weigh around 300 pounds. Your size is Medium. Alignment. Alseid are generally chaotic, flowing with the unpredictable whims of nature, though variations are common, particularly among those rare few who leave their people. Speed. Alseid are fast for their size, with a base walking speed of 40 feet. Type. Your creature type is fey, rather than humanoid. Darkvision. Accustomed to the limited light beneath the forest canopy, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Alseid Weapon Training. You have proficiency with spears and shortbows. Light Hooves. You have proficiency in the Stealth skill. Quadruped. The mundane details of the structures of humanoids can present considerable obstacles for you. You have to squeeze when moving through trapdoors, manholes, and similar structures even when a Medium humanoid wouldn’t have to squeeze. In addition, ladders, stairs, and similar structures are difficult terrain for you. Woodfriend. When in a forest, you leave no tracks and can automatically discern true north. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Elvish.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

