# Animal Yokai

**description**: Yōkai is a term that covers countless different supernatural beings of Rokugan, from wayfaring fox spirits who guide (or deceive) lost travelers to carnivorous umbrellas, and everything in between. The yōkai broadly termed “animal yōkai” tend to take the form of sentient animals with paranormal abilities. Folk belief in Rokugan holds that when animals reach a certain age, or encounter a certain natural phenomena, they become yōkai. In contrast, Rokugani scholars attest that animal yōkai originate from the Realm of Animals in the “enchanted country” of Senkyō, where they serve the competing courts of Chikushudō and Sakkaku. When asked directly, animal yōkai have been known to confirm both of these accounts, neither, or spin more spectacular origins still. Animal yōkai generally possess a true animal form and a human guise, and have powers that humans find strange and difficult to understand. Yōkai and Humans From the point of view of a human, animal yōkai are believed to be friendly as often they are to be malicious or purely indifferent to human struggles. Animals such as foxes (kitsune) and river otters (kawauso) are known to bewitch and play tricks on unwitting travelers, but also to come to the aid of the lost or desperate. Bat spirits (kōmori), on the other hand, are viewed by many people in Rokugan as good omens and helpful guides. Of course, individual yōkai have their own agendas and views of humans. Some actively try to hinder those they interpret as invaders in the wilds of Rokugan, while others may simply be curious and wish to observe human behavior. A yōkai’s player is free to determine their particular motives, which might be ideological or whimsical, petty or profound. Yōkai Taxonomy Rokugani scholars have attempted to classify wild yōkai throughout the years, but as befitting such unpredictable beings, they tend to defy classification. What even qualifies as a “yōkai” is a matter of debate among folklorists, philosophers, and scholars. One school of thought divides yōkai by their origins, sorting them between “Transformed Beings,” “Nature Beings,” and “Tricksters” hailing from the Realm of Animals. Another classification categorizes yōkai by their specific habitat or element. Yōkai themselves rarely bother with such distinctions; the need to endlessly compartmentalize and classify is a human trait, and not one most yōkai share. Animal Yōkai Traits As a animal yōkai, you benefit from the following: Ability Score Increase . Choose one ability score to increase by 2, and another to increase by 1. Age . Yōkai are generally considered mature in their late teens, though the different passage of time in various spiritual realms can mean that this appears to happen much more quickly or slowly from the perspective of someone in the Mortal Realm. Yōkai can live hundreds or potentially thousands of years. Size . Your size varies based on the form you take. See Innate Shapeshifting . Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Innate Shapeshifting . You have two forms: your mortal form and your yōkai form. After you complete a short rest, you can switch between these forms. Your mortal form appears to be human (or, with the GM’s permission, another species of your choice) in all anatomical ways, save for the occasional tail poking out from a robe that quickly vanishes when inspected more closely. In mortal form, your size is that of the species you chose. Your yōkai form is determined by your lineage: choose bat (kōmori), fox (kitsune), or otter (kawauso), below. When you transform into your yōkai form, you can choose for any or all of your items to be safely stored within Senkyō, returning to you when you change back into your mortal form. Bat (Komori) Fox (Kitsune) Otter (Kawauso) Language . See Backgrounds .

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

