# Ashenforged

**description**: “We gave them life, sure. But it was not for any sort of empathy nor any grand sense of purpose. We were desperate, and through such desperation we could not see that we were doing what we, as a people, would never think of doing to ourselves. By the time we realized what we had done, it was too late to go back. So, in the end, instead of taking credit for giving them life, we took pride in giving them their lives back.” — Halfath Ganric, dendus scholar Given life with no soul, but imbued with purpose, the ashenforged are one of the greatest achievements since the discovery of the Crucibles. Though no longer the war-bred union they once were, they have instead become a symbol of advancement to their creators and representatives of a larger purpose. Enigmas of Science During the initial experiments within the cores of the Crucibles, the dendus discovered the ability to imbue artificial intelligence into a physical form. The brains, and sometimes the organs and parts of the deceased were placed into a bio-engineered shell, then modified with sorium melding using an ash-colored substance that collects on the crucible’s surface. The resulting forms were mostly humanoid, but also carried various minor physical traits depending on the lifeform’s former appearance. Though the dendus could have created completely artificial forms, using the brains and fragments of the deceased, along with a biological form, provided them with two unique advantages. First, even without the specific memories of their past, an ashenforged adapts quickly, able to recall small parts of its former self as if it were muscle memory. The second, more interesting discovery, is that they are able to attune themselves to sorium and achieve Esper Genesis, the power to wield and manipulate the forces of creation. The dendus do not truly know why this is the case but they do hold multiple theories, often argued within their circles. Physically, though mostly humanoid, ashenforged carry some of the minor physical traits of their former selves. This could be anything from pointed/ridged ears, small tails, or elongated fingers. All ashenforged have the same grayish metallic colored skin with eyes that range between metallic blues and purples. Forged In War During the decade long Nesieve Conflict, the dendus allied with the eldori to prevent their destruction at the hands of the ruthless lorendi invasion. The ashenforged were created for the purpose of defense against overwhelming odds. After the end of the conflict, the dendus decided to continue their work, creating ashenforged that would serve as emissaries, workers, guards, and explorers. As a race of former slaves, the dendus do not believe in forced servitude. Each ashenforged is given a basic purpose from which they decide their own path. Galactic Pioneers Though a majority of the ashenforged have established communities on Dendusar, a great many of them have ventured out to find their own paths. They can be found anywhere in the Silrayne Arc or even beyond, attempting to integrate themselves into multiple aspects of society, which they think is the best way to develop as a species. Most ashenforged can be found on populated planets as craftsmen, mechanics, or artisans. Those who stuck to their roots in war can be found as mercenaries and bodyguards. Most have established clans based off of the origins of their parentage. Each one bears markings on their skin that the indicate the scientist or engineering guild from which their clan was created. Some form unions and create offspring with the help of the dendus. The new generation can then be marked in the same manner of the clan, or they can even bear marks of a union of two clans. Historically, this is why many ashenforged surnames tend to be very similar to those of the dendus. Ashenforged Names When ashenforged are created, they are given a given an identification number. Upon reaching maturity, they are given a name that signifies either the scientific guild which created them or the dendus facility in which they trained, the latter of which is usually a factory, lab, or upon a Crucible. Their surname is always the clan name of the eldest parent. The ashenforged have no gender distinction when it comes to their names. Many ashenforged keep their given names, while there are those that make alterations to one more to their liking, or change it completely to something more befitting of their nature. Sample Names: Armus, Botarva, Corrus, Deltrivas, Exharlian, Hullvan, Lunarion, Medisi, Primis, Securali, Solus, Sonarvi, Stellivan, Tielvin, Turmirion Clan Names: Aelar, Bartuvo, Duadan, Ganros, Kolrom, Maraval, Nystim, Shanralim, Tyngor, Verkast Ashenforged Traits As an ashenforged, you are gifted with a number of traits that are imbued within you upon creation. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2. Age. Ashenforged mentally mature within the first five years. Most often live another 40-50 years before their body decays. Alignment. Most ashenforged are lawful, raised with their chosen path and purpose being priority above most other things. Size. An ashenforged’s height can vary, usually between 6 feet to 7.5 feet. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. As an ashenforged, you are gifted with the ability to see well in dim and dark places. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were in dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Resilience. You have advantage on saving throws against poison and disease and you are resistant to poison damage. Artisan Training. You gain proficiency with one tool of your choice from the following list: cybersmith’s tools, shipwright’s tools, cooking supplies, tailoring supplies. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common, Dendusi, and one other language of your choice. Ashenforged often tend to quickly learn the language of their former self. Sub-type. The ashenforged are divided between two primary types. Choose one of these. Subraces Cerebral Somatic

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

