# Automaton

**description**: Automaton When the Karelagne Empire discovered the portal to the Aetherial Expanse, everything changed on their homeworld. One of the most profound changes was the unlocking of the potential for aether and aetherium to allow for the creation of magitech technology. The technology brought about by magitech revolutionized many aspects of life in the Empire, from manufacturing to warfare. And it also created a new type of being: the automaton. The first automatons were fairly simple beings, powered by aetherium and built for mundane, specific tasks. As years passed, however, these constructed beings began to display varying levels of sentience. Recently, as more and more of these beings were created and put to work in Karel, some have taken on personalities as complex and nuanced as any organic creature. And most importantly, they have begun to desire more than the tasks they were created to perform. Those who were too vocal or vehement in their demands caused unrest, and even panic, in some communities. One of the best ways to ensure an automaton rebellion never happened was to assign those constructs to work in the Aetherial Expanse. However, in doing so, they also gave these creatures more of an opportunity to leave the employ of the Empire and seek their own destinies. Nearly all automatons are given a designation when created. Standard imperial identification begins with AU (for aetherium unit), followed by a hyphen and another abbreviation for their profession (e.g., M for mechanic, L for laborer, etc.), and a unique three-digit identification number. Automations who rebel against their makers sometimes take other names or designations, while others keep their old designations as a reminder of what their lives used to be like. Most automatons have a roughly humanoid shape, but are comprised of inorganic materials and powered by an aetherium battery. More advanced versions might have swappable parts to support performing different tasks. Automaton Base Traits All automaton characters have the following traits: Age. Your age depends on when you were created and given life. The longer you have been alive, the more time you’ve had to develop your individual personality and socialize with others. Otherwise, automatons have no prescribed lifespan. Creature Type. You are a Construct. Languages. You speak Common. Size. You are Medium. Traditional Automaton Abilities If you prefer to use the Fifth Edition’s standard approach for defining racial traits, your automaton character has the following traits: Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 2, and one other ability score of your choice also increases by 1. Speed . Your walking speed is 30 feet. Artificial Form. You are a Construct, but your enchanted form still benefits from healing spells. You can also heal yourself by spending Hit Dice and finishing a long rest. In addition, you are immune to diseases, and you don’t need to eat, drink, sleep, or breathe. You still need to rest for a full 8 hours during a long rest to gain long-rest benefits. If the mending spell is cast on you, you can spend a Hit Die to regain a number of hit points equal to its roll plus your Constitution modifier (minimum of 1 hit point). Additionally, at the discretion of your GM, you can benefit from further magitech enhancements, such as from a technomage wizard’s Infuse with Aetherium ability. However, your aetherium power core is volatile. If you are reduced to 0 hit points, roll a d6. On a 1, you die as your aetherium battery explodes. Each creature within 10 feet of you must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) force damage on a failed save or half as much on a successful one. Magical Savvy. You learn one cantrip of your choice from any spell list and can cast it using the associated ability score: Intelligence for wizard spells, Wisdom for cleric and druid spells, and Charisma for bard, sorcerer, and warlock spells. If the spell appears on multiple spell lists, choose one to determine the spellcasting attribute for that spell. Natural Attack. Your unarmed strikes deal damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength or Dexterity modifier, and the type of damage is either bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing based on the type of natural weaponry you choose. Well Protected. When you are not wearing armor, your AC is equal to 13 + your Dexterity modifier.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 32048

**publisher**: Ghostfire Gaming

**book**: Aetherial Expanse Setting Guide

