# Avia-Ra

**description**: Upon the Black and Night Crusade, Rode the fearless, heroes they. Citadel, unto their grasp, Fleets adjoined; O' pilgrim's wrath. Prostrate ‘fore the Sun Above, All to arms – never love. — 3rd Hymn of the Night Crusade The avia-ra are a sun-worshipping race of wingless birdmen, which appear to primitive cultures to spread their ancient religion. Ancient God-Kings Depictions of the avia-ra can be found in the ruins of ancient cultures throughout the galaxy. Often, but not always, they are portrayed as divinity manifest: god-like travelers from the heavens. They arrive as evangelists to share the philosophy of their solar religion—that the Sun Above is the only true god—and remain long enough to build an enduring civilization on the primitive world. Some races consider the avia-ra an ancient and wise people, dedicated to their religion and its tenets. Others cast them as charlatans and false prophets, who routinely prey upon primitive and defenseless peoples. The truth depends largely on perspective, but the avia-ra view themselves only as a grand tool to carry the momentum of the sun's glory to new peoples. Watchers of the Citadel The heart of the avia-ra's religion is at the Solar Citadel, which revolves close around the Sepulcher Star. Most aviara make pilgrimage to this site at least once in their lives to bask in the rays of their holy sun, which (in their philosophy) gives light and meaning to all other stars. Their worship of the sun is always directed at the Sepulcher Star itself, even if they are nearer to another star or to no star at all. All other stars merely act as a metaphor, a symbol, for their holy sun. In contrast to their binary doctrines, their actual relationship to the star and the Sepulcher within it is more complicated. The Solar Citadel definitively ensures that the star is under avia-ra control, but Old Un has never spoken to the avia-ra directly from within the star. Despite the silence, the avia-ra continue to pray in reverence and make pilgrimage to the Sepulcher Star. Deep Symbolism Avia-Ra are inclined to view the events around them as omens of much larger struggles, such as those between light and dark, good and evil, and law and chaos. All things have symbolic importance to them; even fundamentally objective things like science and mathematics have a place in the underlying allegory for avia-ra. Most avia-ra hold dreams in especially high regard, for interpreted dreams can tell the future, lend insight into the past, or provide guidance for the present. Those with the gift to interpret dreams are honored highly as priests in the avia-ra and given elaborate titles, such as Grand Remembrancer, or Dream-Teller Most High. Avia-Ra Names Avia-Ra names come in two-part cartouches, with one or both parts of the name being composed of the names of ancient avia-ra heroes and great ideals. Front Cartouche. Anubis, Apophis, Cani, Canopis, Helio, Horus, Ira, Isis, Nefer, Oculus, Terra, Verum Rear Cartouche. Amet, Bast, Haten, Hotep, Intef, Lux, Ma’at, Mose, Omet, Osiris, Ptah, Set, Thoth Avia-Ra Traits Though different avia-ra families may have different bird heads, all avia-ra have the following racial traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by 2, and your Dexterity score increases by 1. Age. Avia-Ra are long lived, and due to their long lives, they have been revered as gods by more primitive beings. They reach maturity at roughly 30 years of age, and can live as long as 500 years. Alignment. The avia-ra draw their morality and philosophy from the sun. Though this solar religion can be severe, fatalistic, and dogmatic, most avia-ra have an inclination towards good—or at least lawful—alignments. Size. Avia-Ra stand between 5 and 6 feet in height, and weigh roughly 120 to 170 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. You have a base walking speed of 30 feet. Darkvision. Thanks to the rituals of your ancestors, the light of the sun dances in your eyes and grants you superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Avia-Ra Weapon Training. You have proficiency with the avia-ra sunstaff, scimitar, shortbow, spear, and whip. Doctrine. You have proficiency in the Religion skill. Blessings of the Sun. You can cast the spell bless, targeting only yourself, without using a spell slot. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for this spell. For the spell’s duration, if you roll a 4 on the d4 that you add to an attack roll or saving throw, you gain advantage on that attack roll or saving throw. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest. Sun’s Chosen. You know the sacred flame and thaumaturgy cantrips. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for these spells. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Avia-Ra. Avia-Ra is a language filled with soft consonants and long vowel sounds. Its written form uses the Celestial script.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Dark Matter Starter Kit

