# Beastborn

**description**: Beastborn "How I miss Barl… the old caretaker to the Well. He was always hunched over, but still seemed tall to me. I remember his big, ursine face, smiling down at me. A good man, he treated me (despite my own differences) with such kindness. Maybe we shared that, being different. I felt so safe with him. But he grew old too fast and one day he just wandered back into the woods…" —Fyrkat, Seerguard Once an ordinary animal living a content life in the forests, seas, or skies of Grimnir, the beastborn became enamored with raiders, their villages, their ships, and gradually, day after day, they started to act like them. Started to become them. The beastborn strongly resembles the creature it once was, though no matter its original size, it has grown (or shrunk) to roughly human height. They look like an animal that has simply decided to walk upright, emulating the raiders they admire. Intensely Curious When the beastborn first saw raiders in their sleek ships and clever towns, they caught a glimpse of a world beyond their forests and plains, their seas and skies. They started to think differently. They lingered on the fringes of raider villages, watching, learning… wondering. And then one day… Well, it happens differently for each beastborn, but more or less they decide. They decide to take the shape of the raiders they see. And they just do. For a beastborn, Grimnir is an amazing place. They appreciate this more than most for they understand both the wonders of the natural world (the comfort and joy of simply surviving amidst the beautiful forests and mountains and seas) as well as the more complicated marvels of civilization. They long to make the most of their short life and learn and see all that they can. Torn Between Two Worlds Though curious about the raiders they admire, they are also deeply attached to their own kind. The struggle to belong to both groups can be hard, but ultimately rewarding. Their two worlds offer lessons well worth learning. Though they have learned the language of their new community, they have not forgotten how to speak (and to listen) to others of their kind. The One and Only The beastborn can live within either animal or humanoid communities, but each individual has never met another being similar to themselves. But that has seldom presented any problems for them. Though they often look quite bestial, other raiders never really see them as they truly are. The magic of Grimnir softens their roughest features. Just Another Raider A bear beastborn might truly be the equivalent of a ferocious grizzly bear walking on two legs, but to his companions, she is merely an overly hairy and muscular raider. Beastborn Names Beastborn take great care to pick a name that fits their appearance or personality. Usually, these names are compounds words with two or more phrases spelling out the name. Companions will often shorten or adjust these names to a suitable nickname. Names: Big-Horn, Book-Reader, Drowsy-Boat, Gleaming-Mane, Lake-Talker, Never-Falls, Running-Fast, Smells-Better, Twitching-Ears, Wide-Shoulders. Beastborn Traits Beastborn have the following traits. Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. Age. You are only a few years old and will age quickly, reaching old age by thirty. Size. You are Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Beast Speak. You can communicate with other creatures of your original kind. Unique. There is no one else quite like you in all the world—never has been, never will be. Use the becoming beastborn system below to construct a beastborn of Grimnir. Becoming Beastborn You start with a pool of 12 beast points. Work through the following sections to spend these points to acquire the features you believe represent the race you are building. The first step is to decide why you awakened and which beastborn aspects resonate most with you. Perhaps you are: A boar that seeks out knowledge, collecting and reading tomes from across the world, learning as much about the raiders and their past as is possible. A squirrel who wants to feel the thrill of leading a raiding party across the sea. A goat that craves to not only learn the culture of the raiders but is excited to add to it—composing great ballads to be sung in feast halls across Grimnir. Once you have a vision in mind start spending the points. Spending Beastborn Points In the following descriptions a [-X] means it costs you X points to acquire that feature. A [+X] means you have selected a limitation that adds X points back into your pool. Beast Features Choose your beast type from these three options: Hunter & Gatherer , Fish , and Fowl . You now spend points to acquire features. Any beastborn can purchase from the beast features, below. You may also purchase from the list associated with your beast type (but not from the lists belonging to other beast types). Amphibious [-3]. You can breathe air and water. Burrow [-4]. You have a burrowing speed equal to half your walking speed. Climb [-2]. You have a climbing speed equal to half your walking speed. If you purchase this feature a second time, your climbing speed is equal to your walking speed. Creature of the Trees [-3]. You use your Dexterity score to determine how far you can jump (instead of Strength). Additionally, when falling you reduce the fall distance by 30 feet. (That is, a 60-foot fall would only be a 30-feet fall for you; a fall of 30 feet or less would result in no damage.) Darkvision [-3]. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You discern colors in the darkness only as shades of gray. You may purchase this feature multiple times to extend the range. Endurance [-4]. When you are reduced to 0 hit points (but not killed) you can drop to 1 hit point instead. Once you have used this trait you must finish a long rest before you can use it again. Glide [-3]. When you fall you can use a bonus action (or a reaction) to slow your movement to 60 feet per round. Your glide lasts for three rounds and if you land on your feet before this feature ends, you take no fall damage. Hold Breath [-1]. You can hold your breath for an additional 15 minutes before suffocating. You can purchase this feature multiple times. Keen Hearing [-1]. You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing. Keen Snout [-1]. You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Leap [-3]. As an action, if your speed is greater than 0, you can jump a number of feet equal to 5 times your proficiency bonus. You do not provoke opportunity attacks when you use this feature. The jump made by this feature does not expend your movement Long-limbed [-3]. When using a melee weapon your reach with that weapon is increased by 5 feet. Longer-lived [-1]. Your lifespan is that of a Human. Modified Unarmed Strike [-3]. You may use the claws, horns, teeth, or hooves of your original form to make unarmed strikes. You choose the appropriate damage type (bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing) when you select your animal of origin. When you hit, you inflict 1d6 damage of that type (+ your Strength modifier). Natural Armor [-4]. When you select your animal of origin, you must pick your natural armor. You might be bulky (or have thick fur or skin) in which case you have an AC of 17 but are unable to increase this with dexterity modifiers or armor. Or instead, you might be agile and have an AC of 13 + your Dexterity modifier (when you wear armor, you use the higher AC score; they do not stack). In either case you may still use a shield. Poison Resistance [-2]. You have resistance to poison damage. Poison Tolerant [-1]. You have advantage on saving throws against the poisoned condition. Powerful Build [-2]. You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift. Skilled [-2]. You have proficiency with one skill from the following list: Athletics, Perception, Stealth, and Survival. Small Size [+1]. You are Small instead of Medium. Speed Increase [-2]. Your walking speed increases by +5. You may purchase this feature up to 3 times. Sunlight Sensitivity [+2]. You have disadvantage on attack rolls and on sight-based Wisdom (Perception) checks if you, or the target of your attack (or Perception check) are in direct sunlight. Swim [-2]. You have a swim speed equal to your walking speed. Hunter & Gatherer Features If you are a hunter and gatherer beast type, you can also purchase from the following list: Accustomed to the Wild [-1]. Your experience as an animal grants you proficiency with Wisdom (Survival) checks (and you double your proficiency bonus for those checks) while on land and not in cities or towns. Beast Grasp [-3]. This might be a bear hug or a python coiling around a foe. When you hit with your unarmed strike, you may use a bonus action to grapple the opponent (as long as they are no more than one size larger than you). Make a standard grapple check and if you win the opponent is considered grappled. Grappled foes can attempt to escape the grapple on their turn. The escape DC is 10 + your Strength (Athletics) modifier. Charge [-3]. If you move at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hit it with a melee weapon attack (on the same turn), you may use a bonus action to make one attack with your unarmed strike. Fearsome Bite [-2]. If you have grappled an opponent, you can perform a bite attack on them as a bonus action. You have advantage on the bite attack, which functions otherwise like a normal melee weapon attack and inflicts 1d6 piercing damage plus your Strength modifier if it hits. Natural Dash [-2]. When you take a dash action you may elect to run on all fours, increasing your movement by an additional 30 feet. Fish Features If you are a fish beast type, you can also purchase from the following list: Accustomed to the Water [-1]. Your experience as an animal grants you proficiency with Wisdom (Survival) checks (and you double your proficiency bonus for those checks) when underwater or within 1 mile of a body of water. Creature of the Depths [+3]. You can breathe air and water, but you must be submerged at least once every eight hours to avoid suffocating. Cold Resistance [-3]. You have resistance to cold damage. Fish Out of Water [+3]. You are clumsy and your walking speed is only 20 feet. Any other movement options selected as part of building your beastborn are based on your original walking speed, not this reduced speed. Sting [-4]. After you hit with an unarmed strike you may inflict an additional 1d6 lightning, necrotic, or poison damage (pick the damage type when you choose your animal of origin). Additionally, if the target fails a Constitution saving throw (DC equal to 12 + your proficiency bonus) they are stunned until the end of the creature’s next turn. You may use this trait a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus. After that you must finish a long rest before using this feature again. Swim [-1]. You have a swimming speed equal to double your walking speed. Fowl Features If you are a fowl beast type you can also purchase from the following list: Armored Flight [-7]. You have a flying speed equal to your walking speed even while wearing light or medium armor. You cannot fly in heavy armor. Accustomed to the Sky [-1]. Your experience as an animal grants you proficiency with Wisdom (Survival) checks (and you double your proficiency bonus for those checks) when in the air. Awkward on Land [+3]. You are clumsy and your walking speed is only 20 feet. Any other movement options selected as part of building your beastborn are based on your original walking speed, not this reduced speed. Keen Sight [-1]. You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. Unarmored Flight [-4]. You have a flying speed equal to your walking speed. You cannot wear any armor while flying.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

