# Belare

**description**: “They are considered to be ancients to even the oldest of the spacefaring races, though you would never know by their state of technological advancements. It almost seems as if they are a people that had died and been reborn in the wrong place and time. Many times in my travels have I seen the ancient structures of the belare. Barely worthy of being called ruins, they are some of the beautiful sights I’ve seen in my lifetime. What must they have been when these places were in their time of greatest splendor? And if they serve as an example of their people, perhaps such beings could once have been as gods.” — Phola Kalstrei, Eldori loremaster There are few that can say they have visited a modern day belare colony, though there are ancient ruins scattered throughout the galaxy. These grand, archaic structures are the only link between the origins of the ancient species and those of the rest of the spacefaring races. Of the Stars The belare are a race of energy beings. Their bodies are formed from a glowing radiance similar to the energy generated by a star, but on a much smaller scale. When looked upon, their radiant form takes the shape of a stout humanoid merely a few feet in height, but this form is less of a definition and more of a form created by the belare themselves. Their bodies generate a tremendous amount of heat, and so when traveling away from their colonies, they wear containment suits to safely communicate and interact with their spacefaring neighbors. Lost Legends The belare as a species are thousands of years old. Due to this age only remnants of records still exist, mostly in the form of ancient written texts and carvings. These records describe the belare as the last of several powerful spacefaring races, all long extinct. Some of the oldest of their ruins are a mystery to the belare themselves. As such, it’s a popular belief they may not have always been the embodiment of the stars they are today. Now in their modern era, the belare use these old structures as meeting grounds and safeholds when dealing with neighbors and allies. Some of the oldest belare have their own records, some even memories, of the lost days of their vast empire, but much of these have amounted to no more than old tales and myths. Rules of Containment Due to their nature, belare are unable to interact with the rest of the galaxy the way other races can. Contact with other organisms disorients the belare physically and causes severe damage to those around them. Each belare has their own personalized bio-containment suit. It bears both humanoid and robotic features, forged from a combination of sorium and biosynthetic material. These suits are not interchangable, being attuned to each belare’s specific energy signature and fitted with an array of sensors. Each suit also bears specific markings for identification. A belare suit is an extension of their senses. They can choose to disable their tactile senses, but such an action limits their ability to channel their energies. As all belare have innate talents, most choose to experience the same vulnerabilities as other races in order to keep their material connection to their environment intact. Belare Names Belare mate by combining their energies, their physiology allowing them to create up to two offspring. As the belare are genderless, such differences are not presented in any of their names. Their given names are a combination of the names of their parents, the oldest usually making up the first part of the name. These combination names end with “ia” for the firstborn, and “us” for the secondborn. Belare who have offspring but take on the role of a sole parent can sometimes provide a variation of their own name instead. Sample Names: Agomatus, Arrolus, Calivalus, Kanaria, Ladrania, Larillia, Nuvellus, Prinaksus, Selrivia, Tunimia, Vandalia Belare in Your Campaign The belare are not as common in the Silrayne Arc as the other major races. They can be found in major cities and space stations, but in more remote areas of the galaxy, especially areas without access to the SIM (see Chapter 8), the belare are considered to be the stuff of legends. Due to their uncommon nature and special circumstances that can arise in-game, the use of belare as a player race is completely at the discretion of the GM. Belare Traits As a belare, you have the following traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence, Constitution, and Charisma all increase by 1. Age. Belare reach adulthood within 10 years. They live to be close to 200, though the oldest belare claim to have been alive for over a thousand years. Alignment. Because they tend to keep themselves impartial to outside affairs, belare tend to be neutral in alignment, though many lean toward good in terms of morality and respect for life. Size. Physically, your form is amorphous, usually taking the shape of a 3 to 4 foot humanoid. A belare suit is on average about 7.5 feet tall. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Infravision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were in dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Also, only while in dim light or darkness, you can choose to see and discern heat signatures within a specified range through up to 5 feet of non-metallic solid material. Suit Resiliency. While wearing your containment suit, you have advantage on saving throws against poison are resistant to poison damage. You are immune to disease. Radiant Form. You have resistance to radiant damage. While exposed from or are outside of your containment suit, you are immune to radiant damage and vulnerable to necrotic damage. Natural Defense. While you are not wearing any armor, your Armor Class equals 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your Constitution modifier. You can use a shield and still gain this benefit. While wearing medium or heavy armor, all of your Dexterity (Stealth) checks are made with a disadvantage. Any class features that grant AC bonuses due to being unarmored are ignored. Artificial Body. Your body is a bio-mechanical containment unit. You can be targeted by and subject to the effects of attacks and powers that specifically target automatons and constructs. You do not need to eat, sleep, or breathe. Esper powers and effects can’t cause you to age or put you to sleep. You regain hit points from healing powers and other healing effects the same as any other organic species. You also gain the same benefit from 4 hours of uninterrupted rest that a human normally would from 8 hours of sleep. Esper Initiate. You gain use of the renew talent. Also, at 3rd level you can use the light beam talent once, after which you must complete a long rest before you can use it again. Constitution is your channeling ability for this talent. At 6th level, your light beam talent upgrades to rank 3, then to rank 4 at 11th level and rank 5 at 16th level. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common and Protean. Belare Containment Suits Containment suits are linked and bound to a belare’s bio-signature. These suits are treated as their physical bodies, subject to damage in the same manner as any other character. They are extremely durable and cannot be forced open without consent from the belare attuned to it. As a belare, once bound to your containment suit, leaving your suit causes you to expel energy and suffer severe stress. Your physical form can be exposed for a number of rounds equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum of 1). At the start of each round thereafter, you suffer one level of exhaustion, which can’t be removed by any powers or effects. At six exhaustion levels, your body is reduced to a pile of fine dust. Closing a containment suit requires an action. Taking a long rest removes all levels of exhaustion you gained as a result of being outside of your suit. In addition, a creature that begins its turn within 5 feet of a belare’s exposed form takes 3 (1d6) radiant damage. This has no effect on other belare.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

