# Bisque Geppettin

**description**: “As soon as he reached home, Geppetto took his tools and began to cut and shape the wood into a Marionette.” —Carlo Collodi, Le Avventure di Pinocchio Ever a joy to children, geppettin resemble living playthings made of wood, cloth, or porcelain. Though easily mistaken for puppets, geppettin aren’t manipulated by a just-out-of-sight puppeteer; they are animated, sentient, and independent. Living Toys As a race, the geppettin are an oddity. Though rare, they are numerous enough and share enough similarities that they may be counted as an actual race of people, and not merely freak mishaps of magic. While there might be dedicated creators of geppettin, as there are with golems, many geppettin come to life on their own. Physically, geppettin are often shorter than halflings. Their physical features vary greatly from type to type, but they are almost always humanoid in shape. For simplicity, geppettin are classified by their materials: bisque are porcelain, marionettes are wood, and plushies are made of fabric. Despite being made of somewhat flimsy materials, sentience grants them an odd hardiness. Additionally, due to their non-living nature, they never hunger, rarely tire, and are adept at being innocuous. Most find some form of work or profession in entertainment, but a few find fantastic success as spies and assassins. As living constructs, geppettin don’t age, and are mature as soon as they become sentient. Bisque Traits Bisque geppettin are a form of porcelain doll, crafted with exacting specification and luxurious clothing materials. Though they are designed to look as realistic as possible, they are often thought to be the most terrifying of geppettin due to their lifeless visage. Though their faces are often very fragile, their construction is generally much hardier than their brethren’s. As a bisque, you have the following racial traits: Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 2 and increase a different score by 1, or increase three different scores by 1. Typical: Dexterity +1, Constitution +1, Charisma +1 Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. However, spells and effects that specifically affect Constructs affect you as well. Size. You are Small. Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it was bright light, and darkness as if it was dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Construct Anatomy. You are immune to nonmagical diseases. You don’t need to eat or breathe, but you can ingest food and drink if you wish. You don’t need to sleep, and magic can’t put you to sleep. You can finish a long rest by spending 4 hours in a motionless state, during which you retain consciousness. False Appearance. While you are motionless, you are indistinguishable from an ordinary porcelain doll. Sudden Strike. Whenever you deal damage to a creature with a weapon attack roll on your first turn in combat, the creature takes extra damage equal to your proficiency bonus. Unnerving. You gain proficiency in the Intimidation skill, and have advantage on any Charisma (Intimidation) rolls in you make against a creature that hasn’t previously seen you move.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Valda's Spire of Secrets

