# Bugbear (Eberron)

**description**: Hoisting the head by the fading plumes of the ruined helmet, still tied under the chin by a cord, Haruuc raised it in one hand and his bloody sword in the other. “Your lord is dead!” he howled in the human language. “The battle is done! By my sword, I claim this place and name it Rhukaan Draal, the crown city of Darguun, the land of the people!” —Don Bassingthwaite, The Doom of Kings The goblinoid species—goblins, hobgoblins, and bug bears—were once the dominant civilization in Khorvaire, with the goblinoid Empire of Dhakaan ruling the continent for thousands of years. It was crippled by a long conflict with the daelkyr and their aberrant armies; even though the daelkyr were defeated, the seeds of madness took root in the empire and tore it apart. Today there are four primary goblinoid cultures in Khorvaire. City Goblins Goblins dwell in most of the major cities of the Five Nations. When humans first came to Khorvaire, they enslaved many goblins and built their cities on the foundations of Dhakaani ruins. Galifar ended the practice of slavery, and these goblins are now citizens of the Five Nations. Gifted goblins can be found in all walks of life, and goblins served in the armies of the Five Nations during the Last War. The Ghaal’dar The Ghaal’dar tribes arose from the remnants of the Dhakaani Empire. Hobgoblins are the leaders of the Ghaal’dar, enforcing their will on their goblin and bug bear peers. The history of the Ghaal’dar is filled with strife; when they weren’t fighting Galifar or Zilargo, the tribes usually turned on one another. This came to an end with the Last War. House Deneith hired Ghaal’dar mercenaries, and this gave focus to the divided tribes. A brilliant hobgoblin, Haruuc, united the Ghaal’dar, and under his leadership they seized control of what is now Darguun (see chapter 2). The aging Lhesh Haruuc remains as the ruler of Darguun, and many fear that his death could throw the region into chaos. As a Ghaal’dar goblinoid, you hold your place through cunning and strength. You may have been a former mercenary now seeking adventure. You could be working as an emissary for one of the Ghaal’dar tribes or even Lhesh Haruuc himself. Or you could have been driven from your tribe by the actions of a rival; perhaps you’re seeking allies to reclaim your birthright. The Marguul The Marguul bugbears threw off the yoke of the Ghaal’dar long ago, seizing territory in the Seawall Mountains in the south of Darguun. They are infamous raiders, and while they have brokered a truce with the Ghaal’dar, anyone venturing into the Seawall Mountains had best travel with a Marguul guide. As a Marguul bugbear, you are savage and proud of it. The Marguul worship the Mockery and believe in victory by any means necessary: there is no such thing as honor on the battlefield. It’s certainly an unusual choice for a player character, but if you’ve taken a liking to a particular group of the small folk, you could be a powerful ally. The Heirs of Dhakaan Though the Dhakaani Empire defeated the alien daelkyr, the war left seeds of corruption strewn throughout the empire. As Dhakaan began to fall, a number of generals and governors gathered their forces and retreated into shelters deep within the earth, determined to preserve their civilization until the Empire could finally be restored. After thousands of years, their descendants have finally emerged, competing among themselves to determine which leader deserves the imperial crown. Once this is settled, they will turn to the conquest of Darguun and Khorvaire. The Dhakaani are far fewer in number than the Ghaal’dar; they had to carefully limit their population in the underground vaults they’ve dwelled in for the past age. However, they have held onto the martial discipline and techniques that allowed their ancestors to dominate the continent. Their weaponsmiths are superior even to the artificers of House Cannith, and they are experts in the working of adamantine and other exotic metals. Anyone who presumes to look down upon goblinoids should be surprised by the skills of the Dhakaani. The Heirs of Dhakaan are an agnostic society and don’t have clerics, paladins, or druids. Their focus is on martial excellence, and their spiritual leaders are bards, who tell tales of past glory. Among the Dhakaan, goblinoids work together. Hobgoblins are the strategists and commanders, typically having the skills of fighters, bards, or rangers. Bugbears cultivate a focused battle rage and are typically barbarians. Goblins are largely artisans and laborers, but exceptional goblins join the khesh’dar (“silent folk”), learning the skills of rogues, monks, or rangers. The khesh’dar spread agents across the Five Nations, and one can never know when a city goblin might turn out to be an assassin. As an adventurer from a Dhakaani clan, consider why are you working with the other player characters? Are you a scout gathering information? Are you searching for allies to defeat a rival clan, or to support your own unlikely bid for the Imperial throne? Are you an exile? If so, do you hope to regain your position, or have you abandoned your ties to the Dhakaani? Goblinoid Names Goblinoid names often feature drawn-out vowel sounds (represented by doubled letters), as seen in the names of both their ancient empire (Dhakaan) and their newborn country (Darguun). Goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears use the same names and naming conventions, despite their tribal differences. Male Names: Aruget, Chetiin, Daavn, Dabrak, Dagii, Drevduul, Duulan, Fenic, Gudruun, Haluun, Haruuc, Jhazaal, Kallaad, Krakuul, Krootad, Mazaan, Munta, Nasaar, Rakari, Reksiit, Tariic, Taruuzh, Thuun, Vanii, Vanon, Wuudaraj Female Names: Aaspar, Aguus, Belaluur, Denaal, Draraar, Duusha, Ekhaas, Eluun, Graal, Gaduul, Ha- shak, Jheluum, Kelaal, Mulaan, Nasree, Raleen, Razu, Rekseen, Senen, Shedroor, Tajiin, Tuneer, Valii, Wuun Racial Traits If you’re playing a goblinoid, your racial traits are determined by whether you’re a bugbear, goblin, or hobgoblin. Bugbear Traits Your bugbear character has the following racial traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 2, and your Dexterity score increases by 1. Age. Bugbears reach adulthood at age 16 and live up to 80 years. Alignment. Bugbears live on the fringes of society even in Darguun, where they value self-sufficiency and violence. They are generally chaotic, organizing in loose tribes under charismatic and powerful leaders. Size. Your size is Medium. To set your height and weight randomly, start with rolling a size modifier: Size modifier = 2d12 Height = 6 feet + your size modifier in inches Weight in pounds = 200 + (2d6 × your size modifier) Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Long-Limbed. When you make a melee attack on your turn, your reach for it is 5 feet greater than normal. Powerful Build. You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift. Sneaky. You are proficient in the Stealth skill. Surprise Attack. If you surprise a creature and hit it with an attack on your first turn in combat, the attack deals an extra 2d6 damage to it. You can use this trait only once per combat. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Goblin.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Eberron - Rising from the Last War

