# Centaur (Midgard)

**description**: On the plains, in the forests, and across the steppes live creatures who blend humanoid and equine aspects. Centaurs are neither man nor beast, but occupy a strange niche in both the civilized and natural worlds. They are born with grace befitting a human king, but are possessed of the fierce savagery of a wild stallion. Centaurs are a scattered race, roaming in small clan groups from the Rothenian Plain (where their numbers are great) to the court of the young Valeran Emperor, whom several serve as personal guards. But they also have a reputation for banditry and bullying, and most cultures consider them dangerous. Centaurs are largely a nomadic people. Their archery is excellent and their healing arts are well advanced. Because they have little interest in magic or in writing, other cultures sometimes disregard centaurs, but they do so at their peril. Large centaur hordes have smashed baronies and even small nations flat. Raiding and Banditry Upon reaching the age of majority, all young adult centaurs embark on their “bandit years,” a practice designed to siphon off those who are particularly troublesome and give some experience to more agreeable colts and fillies. These young centaurs run free, away from the clan groups, to exorcise their aggression and immaturity. At the end of this period, they can choose to remain outside their clan or horde, or they can return with the understanding that they have tamed their wild ways—at least to the degree that’s acceptable to centaur society. Most young adults choose to return after their bandit years, though the occasional centaur leaves the horde permanently out of curiosity, romance with another race, or any number of other factors. Young centaurs of the same age go on their bandit years together, with instructions from the clan chief about when they’ll be allowed to return. Centaurs believe in personal property, but they also believe that a person who claims to own something should be strong enough to defend it. They never steal from their clan, but anyone else is fair game. Shipments or supplies of grain and alcohol are their favorite targets. During a raid, centaurs take advantage of their speed, maneuverability, and skill in archery. They use diversions to draw defenders away from targets, or use heavy volumes of arrows to keep them pinned down. The bandit years are the time when centaurs drink most heavily. Within the clan, celebrations can be shockingly raucous, but everyday life is not. During the bandit years, however, young centaurs are drunk more often than not. This constant inebriation fuels more raids, fights, and reckless behavior. The bandit years are also the time when centaurs are most likely to take up a life of adventuring, even if only for a little while. Many centaurs spend their bandit years not strictly as bandits but as wanderers and adventurers, eventually returning to their clans with loot and stories. Centaur Names Centaur names are similar in many ways to elven names, but they emphasize synonyms for speed, strength, and daring. They sometimes incorporate a long list of deed names, but those are seldom trotted out except during formal occasions and when issuing challenges. Male Names. Barrazu, Farrushi, Gaddir, Gadjay, Harunmaza, Himfel, Lahza, Muhktif, Seflenn, Zadat Female Names. Ammida, Bassara, Firnala, Imudeema, Lahga, Leezai, Rashij, Simdisa, Tazgizi, Tifalza Centaur Traits Your centaur character has certain characteristics in common with all other centaurs. Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1. Age. Centaurs reach maturity at 15 years of age. Their lifespans vary because of the harsh conditions and martial nature of their culture, but the upper limits are similar to those of humans. Alignment. Centaur alignments are mainly chaotic and neutral. Size. Centaurs stand between 8 and 9 feet tall and weigh in excess of 1,000 pounds. Your size is Large. Speed. Centaurs have a base speed of 40 feet. Type. You are of the monstrosity type. Natural Attacks. You have proficiency with your hooves. You make one attack with your hooves, which deal 2d6 bludgeoning damage. Centaur Weapon Training. You have proficiency with the pike and the longbow. Pike Charge. If you move at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hit it with a pike attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) piercing damage. The number of extra damage dice you gain increases by one at 6th level (2d6) and again at 11th level (3d6). You can apply this extra damage only once per turn. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum 1), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Humanoid Torso. Although you are Large, you wield weapons and wear armor sized for a Medium creature, thanks to the proportions of your humanoid torso. Quadruped. You have disadvantage on Stealth checks because of your size and indelicate hooves. The mundane details of the structures of humanoids can present considerable obstacles for you, such as ladders and manholes. Self-sufficient. You have proficiency with the Medicine skill. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Centaur and one other language of your choice.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 9

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Midgard Heroes Handbook

