# Chthonic Scions

**description**: “Captain.” The elf’s voice pierces the dull roar of warfare over the hills. Metal shrieking against metal, boots pulling from the muck, a rallying call strangled with fear. If they’d just been faster— “Captain.” Her lieutenant, Cian, is more insistent. Captain Jivanna drags her eyes from the wreckage to follow his gaze. “What? I already told you, leave them behi—” “Look.” Cian gestures to a solitary figure that descends on the massacre of bodies and beasts. Murky wings of water fold into the figure’s back as they crouch over a soldier whose breath rattles in cold resignation. He draws a blade with bloodied hands. “Get off them! We have to take their body ba—” Jivanna seizes his wrist, her eyes on the figure. “Leave them. They’re in the hands of a ferrier now.” Chthonic scions are called to the most solemn of all tasks: easing the traversal from life to death. Found in warzones, dungeons, rebel battlefields, and at the gates of unholy necropoli, these angelic ferriers prevent undue death, defy necromantic evil, ease the suffering of the dying, and soothe the fear of what comes after. Solemn Ferrymen Chthonic scions are subtle by nature. Theirs is no calling of glory, power, or triumph—they are often quiet presences, notable as celestial inheritors only when they display their full wingspan or in the moments before a creature’s death. A chthonic scion is an overseer of passing souls: they possess the ability to take on a visage of comfort. Their voice, frame, and face adopt features a creature finds comforting in its final moments, and return to their original form when the soul has passed. A small-town farmgirl may see an elderly, maternal figure whose voice croaks comfortingly like the village elders she knew, while a soldier or a mercenary may find a weathered combatant easing their final moments, offering camaraderie and strength. These ferriers’ wings are not splendorous, but made of shifting materials that a dying creature finds familiar. Creatures from druidic cultures may find that their ferriers appear with wings of leaves or blossoms, while creatures from a seafaring culture may see their ferrier with wings of water or brewing storm clouds. Soul Shepherds and Adventuring Many chthonic scions become clerics, druids, and rangers, drawing on their connections to the planes, the natural cycles of life and death, and the healing and peace that can be administered through magic. But more than anything, successfully fulfilling your role as a ferrier requires empathy—something suited for any class. A solemn fighter knows how to protect those who have more yet to do and how to peacefully end those whose lives are over. A chronicling bard may write the stories of those they help pass on as a way to remember them. There are many ways for a ferrier to do their job respectfully and sincerely. Notably, however, many chthonic scions are drawn to practice magic, finding a natural curiosity in studying the soul. What a soul is, where it comes from, where it goes, why it seems to be the strongest well of a person’s power—these are questions magic seeks to answer. And chthonic scions have great interest in understanding the soul. When a creature dies, the chthonic scion is one of the only beings able to physically hold the tangible manifestation of their soul and direct it forth. Many of these scions travel with adventurers, studying the souls they come across and the different mortal understandings of souls. Adventuring ferriers try to determine their place in the multiverse as one of the only beings allowed to touch a soul. Sacred Death Chthonic scions need only do one thing to earn the ire of their Celestial connections: defile death. Given a solemn charge over the passage from life to afterlife, ferriers are granted an enormous amount of trust, and expected to embody kindness, empathy, and calm. They can’t betray this trust without devastating consequences. Chthonic scions who turn to ruthlessness, cruel apathy, and death-tainting magics find themselves swiftly hunted by vindicator scions or other divine beings. However, most ferriers have a deep disdain for necromancy and undeath, as it interferes with their work and defiles the dead, keeping them from finding peace. Chthonic Scion Traits Your chthonic scion has the following traits. Ability Score Increase Your Wisdom score increases by 2, and one other ability score of your choice increases by 1. Age Chthonic scions mature at the same rate as humans, but they can live up to 150 years. Alignment As silent wardens of the dying, chthonic scions prioritize respect and empathy above all else. They tend toward lawful or neutral good. Requiem of the Fallen When a creature with a soul dies within 60 feet of you, you can catch in its soul and keep it with you in a small container. You can’t collect another soul until you finish a long rest, and you can only keep one soul this way at a time. During a long rest, you can ritually connect with the soul, drawing on your connection with death to ask it up to three questions. Speaking with the soul does not require that you share a common language, but the soul is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if you are hostile to it or it recognizes you as an enemy. You can keep the soul for as long as you want, but it will only answer three questions in total. When you make an ability check, attack roll, or saving throw, you can release this soul to gain advantage on the check. Dying without Dying Some creatures don’t die when reduced to 0 hit points. Fiends, for instance, return to their plane of origin when reduced to 0 hit points on the Material Plane. If a chthonic scion tries to take a soul from a devil or a demon, they may instead find that the soul vanished back to the Hells along with the creature. Of course, in your game’s world, perhaps fiends and other such creatures die permanently. Talk to your GM about the chthonic scion’s Requiem of the Fallen trait and make sure you have an understanding of which creatures die when reduced to 0 hit points. If you’re a GM with a chthonic scion in your group, ensure that the character gets to use this trait frequently enough to be satisfying. Sentinel’s Denial Starting at 3rd level, you can use your action to unleash the divine energy within yourself, causing shadows to deepen and stretch about you as a chill wind stirs the air. Your transformation lasts for 1 minute or until you end it as a bonus action. For the duration, you have a flying speed of 30 feet, and once on each of your turns, you can deal additional necrotic damage to one target when you deal damage to it with an attack or a spell. The additional necrotic damage equals your level. In addition, once per turn when you successfully hit with an attack or a spell, one unconscious creature within 30 feet of you of your choice automatically succeeds on a death saving throw. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 11

