# Coalder

**description**: Deep beneath the mantle of the Material Plane, the hardy coalder people thrive. These Large humanoids have massive arms and walk on their knuckles. Long, oily hair adorns their stone-chiseled heads, hands, and feet. Their dusty skin is marbled, mixed with the primary minerals of their five birth parents. Coalders came about as the plane's response to the tarrasque. They can withstand the harshest environments and stay close to the monster to keep it sated and asleep, knowing that if they fail, the world could be devoured. Their existence is so entwined with the tarrasque that some coalders worship it as a god. Coalder society reveres the concept of fuel, the will to keep going, knowing full well that catastrophe could destroy them at any moment. They fuel their communities with acts of service and their loved ones with gifts, believing that their fuel will spark them to lead bright-burning and exciting lives. Dwarves and stone giants that share this ideal sometimes live among coalders, working together to keep their world and home thriving. A coalder adventurer typically has two good reasons for leaving home. They need something to help quell the tarrasque, or they want to get far, far away from it. Coalder Traits As a coalder, you have the following traits. Ability Score Increase . When determining your character's ability scores, increase one score by 2 and increase a different score by 1, or increase three different scores by 1. Age . Coalders that set off for adventure tend to burn out faster than those who lead quiet lives. After reaching maturity at 100, a coalder can live to be six thousand years old. Creature Type . You are a Humanoid. Size . Your size is Large (see “Special Size Rules”). Speed . Your walking speed is 35 feet, which increases to 45 feet when moving downhill. Darkvision . You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You discern colors in that darkness only as shades of gray. Brace . When you take damage after making a Dexterity saving throw, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage you take an amount equal to your Constitution score. You can't use this trait again until you finish a short or long rest. Coalder Composure . You can’t gain levels of exhaustion from extreme heat or cold. Languages . You can speak two languages of your choice. Colate is a verbal and written language practiced by many coalders, known for its bountiful use of hard consonants and rumored to be understood by the tarrasque. Building Coalder Characters You can use these sample aspects to help create a coalder. Names : Coalder names are formed of “col” and sharp syllables, such as Coldon, Shacol, and Tarcolcon. Increased Ability Scores : Strength, Constitution, Intelligence Archetypes: Curious youth (neutral), hardened spiritualist (lawful), reckless juggernaut (chaotic) Languages : Colate, Common, Dwarvish, Giant Character Prompts : The following prompts can be elaborated on with your GM: Roccolate, a traveling chef that wants to share their lava cakes with the world Colegion, a tarrasque guardian who seeks their lost teacher's final sealing technique Diacol, a small village courier with a letter for a lost relative

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 14

