# Corvum

**description**: Corvums are a crow-like race with dark feathers and sharp minds. Their reputation in birdfolk society is nothing short of villainous, and they are regularly cast as the antagonists of any given situation. It’s hard to say whether the corvums are distrusted because they behave the way they do, or if they behave the way they do because they are distrusted. For Personal Gain It is widely believed that corvums only look out for themselves. Sometimes this presents as flexible morals, and at other times it simply means they follow a personal code instead of subscribing to general law. Either way, corvums are a crafty race and they tend to get what they want, one way or another. Corvums are typically found in positions with a modicum of power, such as advisors or minor officials. The stigma they face usually prevents them from attaining too prominent a position in birdfolk society, but corvums are adept at working behind the scenes, spreading their influence subtly and to great effect. Too Smart Corvums are commonly accepted, sometimes begrudgingly, to be among the smartest of birdfolk. Keen observers, they trade in information the way others trade goods. They are hungry for knowledge and leverage it to further their goals whenever possible. Their undeniable skill in matters of logistics and planning make them valuable to councils and powerful individuals alike. Corvum Traits Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence score increases by 2. Age. Corvums reach adulthood at around 18 years. They live slightly shorter lives than other birdfolk, approximately 70 years. Alignment. Shrewd and capable, corvums prefer moral flexibility and are more likely to be neutral than either good or evil. Nonetheless, corvums see the benefit of rules, even if many attempt to turn them to their own advantage. Because of this they favor lawful alignments. Size. Corvums cut imposing figures, standing between 4 and a half and 5 and a half feet tall, encompassing a variety of different builds. They weigh around 100 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Glide. Using your feathered arms, you can slow your fall, and glide short distances. When falling you can use your reaction to spread your arms, stiffen your wing feathers, and slow your descent. While doing so, you continue to fall gently at a speed of 60 feet per round, taking no fall damage when you land. If you would fall at least 10 feet in this way, you may fly up to your movement speed in one direction you choose, although you cannot choose to move upwards, landing in the space you finish your movement. You cannot glide while carrying heavy weapons or wielding a shield (though you may drop any held items as part of your reaction to spread your arms). You cannot glide while wearing heavy armor, or if you are encumbered. Talons. Your sharp claws aid you in unarmed combat and while climbing. Your damage for an unarmed strike is 1d4 piercing damage. Additionally, you have advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks made to climb any surface your talons could reasonably grip. Learned. You gain proficiency in one of the following skills: Arcana, History, Nature, or Religion. Appraising Eye. You have an almost supernatural ability to appraise objects. By spending an action examining any object, you can determine any magical properties the item has, how they might be used or activated, as well as a fair estimation of market price. Using this skill strains the eyes, and you must complete a long or short rest before you can use it again. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Birdfolk. You can also understand Auran, though you cannot speak it naturally. Subrace. There are two main subraces of corvum: dusk and kindled . Choose one of these subraces.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Hit Point Press

**book**: Humblewood

