# Dendus

**description**: “A great sense of pride, purpose, and tradition runs deep within the dendus clans. But with all of their history, they are known throughout the galaxy for being able to do one thing better than the rest: they endure. Their people have fallen and risen again in dramatic fashion to the point that we’d think they would hate all other species. But instead, it’s the opposite. Their sense of wonder and love of life is sometimes infectious. Make no mistake, though. The dendus still hold grudges... and they live for a very long time.” — Vakryth, Matokai Soldier Exotic cities layered with high technology, grand strongholds melded into the earth with neon-lit rippled spires running both above and below ground, representations of the dendus way of life, the perfect mix of tradition and evolution. Graceful Resilience Most dendus are considered short and slender compared to the other major races, with their tallest reaching just above 5 feet in height. Even then, the majority of their height stems from their long legs, which tend to hold greater length than their torsos and arms. However, even with such a slender frame, the dendus are no more or less frail than any of their neighboring races. Dendus have extremely pale skintones that range from stark white to light grays, with rare hints of red or violet. Their skin is extremely smooth and somewhat slick, similar in texture to some earth-type sea creatures. They have three appendages on each of their limbs that serve as fingers and toes. Each dendus has a collection of tentacles atop their heads which can often be misconstrued for hair at a distance. These tentacles can be guided into small movement patterns that serve as a minor form of communication between dendus and other chosen allies. They range in color from light to dark reds, purples, and grays as well as black. Ruin and Restoration Dendus live for hundreds of years, their history bearing the stark contrast of their lives today compared to their civilization centuries ago. Their homeworld, once invaded by the insectoids of Prokmel, saw most of the dendus killed and the rest forced into centuries of slavery. The discovery of one of the first Crucibles marked the liberation of Dendusar, the dendus soon translating much of the cryptic codes and markings found within the artifact, and using this newfound power to vanquish their vile masters. Their liberation was short-lived, as their world was soon set upon by the Xamaron horde, then years later again by the merciless Lorendi Imperial Fleet. Each time marked the fall of dendus civilization, resistance to their conquerors, and finally restoration of their home. Because of this, the dendus as a people are steadfast and loyal, driven by a strong sense of determination and a desire to aid those who have suffered through oppression and injustice. To fall out of favor with a dendus unit is considered a dangerous undertaking. Traditional Transformation Though the dendus are not the people they were a millennium ago, they always manage to keep certain traditions and practices intact. A prime example would be the Folas Tower on Dendusar, a high-tech spire that reaches several thousand feet from the ground up with an intricate system of cylindrical tunnels that travel miles below the surface. It has been rebuilt many times, each time with the same frame and basic design, regardless of how many lights, panels, and circuitry are layered upon its surface. A dendusian family is known as a unit, with generations of bonded units classified as “kin-lines”. Long histories are kept for each kin-line, complete with accomplishments and major events. Dendusian units are fiercely loyal to one another, even moreso than any long-standing friends or allies. This can often create conflicts whenever a unit member creates problems or situations that end up involving other relatives. Keepers of the Code After the belare, the dendus were the first to translate the markings found within the Crucibles and access many of their functions. This revolutionary discovery allowed them to make great leaps in technological advancement, such as access to an infinite energy source, faster-than-light space travel, and the creation of the ashenforged. Though other spacefaring races have learned to harness the Crucibles’ energy source, none have learned the process more efficiently than the dendus. Because of this, dendus scientific guilds can be found working on most of the active Crucibles. Those races that share the continued study of these artifacts also benefit by gaining the dendus as staunch and dedicated allies. Younger dendus grow up learning much about the Crucibles and the theories behind their existence. Thus, dendus who travel throughout the galaxy, even with their own purpose, also take interest in discovering exotic places or ancient civilizations that may have even been connected to their own at one time. Dendus Names A dendus child is named after one of the parents with the suffix “-kin” attached to the end. After they reach 10 years old, their personality and desires become more defined and they are then given a name that honors one from dendus records that has its own storied history or personality attached to it. To mark a new chapter in the child’s life, the new name is more often a variation of the historical one, rather than an exact match. A dendus’ surname is the name of their kin-line, traditionally passed down from the kin-line of the child’s mother. Female Names: Alilly, Beliji, Ellydan, Ferebel, Fonstah, Gaela, Gezora, Irki, Misyka, Neryx, Niroba, Selissi, Tanna, Turissa, Vedilla Male Names: Aehkin, Alrick, Barenor, Durren, Halfath, Jeppar, Kelren, Nupok, Orvyn, Ramdle, Rebook, Shelgo, Sindart, Verker, Wergryn Surnames: Aelfers, Barien, Duadorm, Ganric, Kolfor, Marapen, Nystow, Shanagel, Tynig, Verkle Dendus Traits All dendus share the following traits carried down throughout their kin-lines. Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by 2. Age. Dendus are considered to be young until they reach about 40 years of age. They live on average between 350 to 450 years. Alignment. The majority of dendus are lawful due to their level of dedication and loyalty. They tend to be good due to their intolerance of injustice, however they share a duality with a select few who value evolution and advancement over tradition. Size. Dendus are very slender with small torsos and elongated legs. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. Accustomed to a multitude of environments, you have the ability to see different shades of light. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were in dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Fast Learner. You have proficiency in the Insight skill. Force of Will. You have advantage on all Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws versus esper powers. Larima. Your tentacles, also known as “larima,” can be used to exhibit a burst of psychic energy similar to the mental missive talent, though the range of this ability is limited to 10 feet. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common and Dendusi. Subraces. Depending on the history of your kin-line, you fall under one of two categories of dendus. Subraces High-kin Path-kin

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

