# Drow (Midgard)

**description**: The denizens of the surface world did not know of the existence of the drow until recently in the world’s history. Even other Underworld creatures only heard of the race through rumors and half-mythical stories. The magnificent cities and structures created by the drow were viewed by very few outsiders, as the locales were kept secret, protected by traps, magic, and a network of fortifications and soldiers. With the rise of the Ghoul Imperium, however, the drow civilization is now exposed to the rest of the Underworld and on the brink of annihilation. A Hidden Race The beginnings of the drow race are shrouded in mystery. With their resemblance to the elves of the surface world, many would posit the drow are some subterranean offshoot of that surface race, driven underground for some treacherous and evil acts. The truth is practically the opposite. The drow lived long before the surface elves, and if there is any connection between the two races at all, the drow are the elders. The skin of a drow ranges from grey to blue-black to the darkest ebon. Their features are delicate and streamlined, and their eyes glow red. Drow who have hair general sport white or silver hair, and they do not grow facial or body hair. The Religion of Industry The drow pattern their entire way of life by the strength and beauty of the work of the insects of the Underworld. These insects, though seemingly small and insignificant, create great structures, while at the same time having the power to destroy even the greatest enemy. Their structures are built with materials as fine and as strong as spider webs. Their fortifications are like the colonies of ants: defensible and carefully planned. The various beetles that are now staples of the Ghoul Imperium were first utilized and bred by the drow centuries ago, though the darakhul have, in their minds, perfected these creatures in recent years. The religious ceremonies of the drow also follow patterns of insectoid energy and cooperation. Everyone has a place, from the weakest to the most powerful. If one fails to do their job well, all will suffer the consequences. Careful planning and execution can overcome any obstacle. Unfortunately, the defeats suffered at the hands of darakhul have left many drow questioning their faith. Some want to begin worshipping new, more violent forces to turn the tides. Even those who still cling to the old ways are split on whether to go into hiding or commit to a full-blown assault on the ghouls. Terrible Defeats At first, the territory controlled by the darakhul did not intersect with that of the drow. As the Ghoul Imperium spread further and further throughout the Underworld, skirmishes between the outer guard and advance scouts of the drow and darakhul became more frequent. Realizing that such a powerful force and rich food supply was within reach, the darakhul quickly took the fight to the drow in their own cities. The drow had never before been successfully invaded, but they had never before been attacked by a force like the darakhul. The drow relied on traps and defenses that employed poison or necrotic magic, which was great against living foes but mostly ineffective against the darakhul. Unable to kill what was already dead, the drow watched one city after another fall. And to make matters worse, their own dead were rising up as the enemy and joining the darakhul ranks. Drow Names Drow are named by their families at birth, with the names having meanings that convey the wishes of the family for the child. Common drow names translate as obedient, ingenious, commanding, and fearless. Female Names: Ar’tik, Berril, Chi’zzl, Dillin, Fal’zzn, Id’sin, Li’liin, Mzz’ik, Ni’zzt, Ril’sir, Til’zzr Male Names: Ber’zzn, Chr’fru, Dro’shu, Fru’kkr, Har’trk, Joor’tzz, Kru’jat, Ohb’qor, Pzz’lok, Vor’tre Drow Traits Your drow character has certain characteristics in common with all other drow. Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence score increases by 2. Age. Drow physically mature at the same rate as humans, but they aren’t considered adults until they reach the age of 50. They typically live to be around 500. Size. Drow are slightly shorter and slimmer than humans. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Alignment. Drow believe in reason and rationality, which leads them to favor lawful activities. However, their current dire situation makes them more prone than their ancestors to chaotic behavior. Their vicious fight for survival makes them capable of doing great evil in the name of self-preservation, although they are not by nature prone to evil in other circumstances. Superior Darkvision. Accustomed to life in the darkest depths of the world, you can see in dim light within 120 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put you to sleep. Mind of Steel. You understand the complexities of minds, as well as the magic that can affect them. You have advantage on Wisdom, Intelligence, and Charisma saving throws against spells. Sunlight Sensitivity. You have disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, or whatever you are trying to perceive is in direct sunlight. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Elvish and your choice of Common or Undercommon. Subrace. Three subraces of drow exist in Midgard: delver, purified, and the more recent fever-bit. Choose one of these subraces. Playing a Drow You were born into a civilization that survived and thrived on order, stability, rational thought, and careful planning. Within your lifetime, you watched all of that come crashing down. The darakhul forces have you on the run, hiding out in small pockets of civilization, moving from place to place to avoid detection, or hearing about the devastation from a safe place far from the battle lines. Some within your ranks want to completely change the way drow live, create new rules and new ways of life, and do everything and anything to survive. Others believe this is naught but a new test of your people’s resolve, and that only by remaining faithful to the old ways can you defeat your enemy. Wherever you come down on this debate, you have a new, strange world in front of you. Drow Subraces The drow are generally born into different castes, which determines what is expected of them in drow society. The delvers are the workers who maintain the (once) magnificent drow cities, serve in the drow military, and keep the rest of the drow safe and fed. The purified make up the leaders, skilled laborers, and magic-users of the drow. With the war between the drow and the darakhul going so poorly, a new and growing population of drow, called the fever-bit, have been infected with darakhul fever and survived, changing them into something quite new—and potentially powerful. Delver Fever-Bit Purified

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Underworld Player's Guide

