# Dust Goblin

**description**: Of all the humanoid races that live in the blighted lands of the world, perhaps the most successful are the dust goblins. Their ability to survive in almost any environment and the prolific rate at which they breed enables them to face nearly any challenge that comes their way. Indeed, in a land populated by otherworldly horrors, unhinged cultists, and rampaging dragons, that they not only survive but prosper is something of a miracle. MALNOURISHED AND TWISTED Dust goblins appear to be perpetually underfed because of their thin limbs and swollen bellies. Their skin is dry and cracked from exposure to sun and wind, and their hands and feet are heavily callused. Dust goblins are roughly the same size as others of their ilk, with dusky gray to dark green skin and dark red, black, or green hair. Their eyes are invariably yellow or red and seem close to bulging out of their sockets. Some dust goblins are born with deformities such as an extra (but useless) limb or ugly boils covering their bodies, but these defects have no impact on their abilities. FEARLESS TINKERERS Dust goblins are driven by two universal characteristics: a lack of fear, even in the face of overwhelming odds, and an insatiable interest in anything ancient and magical, particularly if such a thing can be made to blow up or otherwise harm another individual. Why dust goblins are so different from their cowardly cousins has long been a cause of conjecture among sages and scholars. Some believe their minds have been warped by prolonged exposure to aberrations or foul magic, others that the race has been blessed by a mad god, and a few maintain that they were specifically bred long ago to enhance their fearlessness and curiosity. Although dust goblins are not the equal of gnomes or dwarves when it comes to craftsmanship, they have a knack for activating and using technological devices that others might find perplexing or distasteful. For instance, they have no qualms about making use of any vril technology or chaos devices they might find in an abandoned ruin or in a lich’s tower. DUST GOBLIN TRAITS Your dust goblin character has the following traits. Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity increases by 2, and your Constitution increases by 1. Age. Dust goblins are a short-lived race, reaching adulthood at age 10 and living approximately 40 years. Alignment. Dust goblins lean toward neutrality and evil, though an individual’s alignment is heavily dependent on where it lives. Dust goblins who have grown up in more stable environments are often lawful in alignment despite their somewhat twisted perspectives. Size. Dust goblins range between 2 and 4 feet in height and weigh between 20 and 80 pounds. Your size is Small. Speed. Dust goblins are exceptionally fast for creatures of small stature. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Chaotic Mindset. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Sneaky and Wily. You have proficiency in the Dexterity (Stealth) and Wisdom (Survival) skills. Heinous. When you attack a creature that is unaware of your presence, the target must make a Wisdom saving throw with a DC of 8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus. On a failure, the target is frightened of you until the end of its next turn. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Goblin.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 25357

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

