# Dwarf

**description**: Creature Type Humanoid Size Medium (about 4–5 feet tall) Speed 30 feet Dwarves were raised from the earth in the elder days by a deity of the forge. Called by various names on different worlds—Moradin, Reorx, and others—that god gave dwarves an affinity for stone and metal and for living underground. The god also made them resilient like the mountains, with a life span of about 350 years. Squat and often bearded, the original dwarves carved cities and strongholds into mountainsides and under the earth. Their oldest legends tell of conflicts with the monsters of mountaintops and the Underdark, whether those monsters were towering giants or subterranean horrors. Inspired by those tales, dwarves of any culture often sing of valorous deeds—especially of the little overcoming the mighty. On some worlds in the multiverse, the first settlements of dwarves were built in hills or mountains, and the families who trace their ancestry to those settlements call themselves hill dwarves or mountain dwarves, respectively. The Greyhawk and Dragonlance settings have such communities. Dwarf Traits As a Dwarf, you have these special traits. Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 120 feet. Dwarven Resilience. You have Resistance to Poison damage. You also have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Poisoned condition. Dwarven Toughness. Your Hit Point maximum increases by 1, and it increases by 1 again whenever you gain a level. Stonecunning. As a Bonus Action, you gain Tremorsense with a range of 60 feet for 10 minutes. You must be on a stone surface or touching a stone surface to use this Tremorsense. The stone can be natural or worked. You can use this Bonus Action a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 33335
- data-List: false
- filter-Size: Medium
- filter-Type: Humanoid
- filter-Shape: Humanoid
- filter-Defenses: Resistance to Damage Type
- data-datarecords: [{"name":"Dwarf Speed","level":"1","builderDisplayName":"30 Speed","payload":"{\"type\":\"Speed\",\"speed\":\"Walk\",\"calculation\":\"Set Base\",\"valueFormula\":{\"flatValue\":30}}"},{"name":"Dwarf Size","level":"1","builderDisplayName":"Medium Size","payload":"{\"type\":\"Size\",\"sizeValue\":\"Medium\"}"},{"name":"Dwarf Darkvision","level":"1","builderDisplayName":"Darkvision","payload":"{\"type\":\"Features\",\"name\":\"Darkvision\",\"description\":\"You have Darkvision with a range of 120 feet.\"}"},{"name":"Dwarf Darkvision Sense","parent":"Dwarf Darkvision","level":"1","payload":"{\"type\":\"Sense\",\"name\":\"Darkvision\",\"calculation\":\"Set Base\",\"valueFormula\":{\"flatValue\":120}}"},{"name":"Dwarf Dwarven Resilience","level":"1","builderDisplayName":"Dwarven Resilience","payload":"{\"type\":\"Features\",\"name\":\"Dwarven Resilience\",\"description\":\"You have Resistance to Poison damage. You also have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Poisoned condition.\"}"},{"name":"Resistance to Poison","parent":"Dwarf Dwarven Resilience","level":"1","payload":"{\"type\":\"Defense\",\"defense\":\"Resistance\",\"damage\":\"Poison\"}"},{"name":"Advantage Against Poison","parent":"Dwarf Dwarven Resilience","level":"1","payload":"{\"type\":\"Roll Bonus\",\"bonusCategory\":[\"Saving Throws\"],\"bonusName\":[],\"bonusDetails\":\"Keep Highest\",\"bonusValue\":1,\"diceCount\":2,\"situation\":\"You have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Poisoned condition.\"}"},{"name":"Dwarf Dwarven Toughness","level":"1","builderDisplayName":"Dwarven Toughness","payload":"{\"type\":\"Features\",\"name\":\"Dwarven Toughness\",\"description\":\"Your Hit Point maximum increases by 1, and it increases by 1 again whenever you gain a level.\"}"},{"name":"Dwarven Toughness HP Modifier","parent":"Dwarf Dwarven Toughness","level":"1","payload":"{\"type\":\"Hit Points\",\"calculation\":\"Modify\",\"hitpointType\":\"Maximum\",\"valueFormula\":{\"level\":{\"add\":true}}}"},{"name":"Dwarf Stonecunning","level":"1","builderDisplayName":"Stonecunning","use":"Dwarf Stonecunning Limit","payload":"{\"type\":\"Features\",\"name\":\"Stonecunning\",\"description\":\"As a Bonus Action, you gain Tremorsense with a range of 60 feet for 10 minutes. You must be on a stone surface or touching a stone surface to use this Tremorsense. The stone can be natural or worked. You can use this Bonus Action a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.\"}"},{"name":"Dwarf Stonecunning Limit","parent":"Dwarf Stonecunning","level":"1","payload":"{\"type\":\"Resource\",\"name\":\"Stonecunning\",\"value\":\"full\",\"maxValueFormula\":{\"proficiency\":{\"add\":true},\"round\":\"Down\"},\"recovery\":\"Long Rest\",\"recoveryRate\":\"Full\"}"},{"name":"Dwarf Stonecunning Bonus Action","parent":"Dwarf Stonecunning Limit","level":"1","use":"Dwarf Stonecunning Limit","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"Stonecunning\",\"description\":\"As a Bonus Action, you gain Tremorsense with a range of 60 feet for 10 minutes. You must be on a stone surface or touching a stone surface to use this Tremorsense. The stone can be natural or worked. You can use this Bonus Action a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.\",\"actionType\":\"Bonus Action\"}"},{"name":"Dwarf Stonecunning Condition","parent":"Dwarf Stonecunning Bonus Action","level":"1","payload":"{\"type\":\"Effect\",\"name\":\"Stonecunning\",\"description\":\"As a Bonus Action, you gain Tremorsense with a range of 60 feet for 10 minutes. You must be on a stone surface or touching a stone surface to use this Tremorsense. The stone can be natural or worked.\",\"category\":[]}"},{"name":"Dwarf Tremorsense","parent":"Dwarf Stonecunning Condition","level":"1","payload":"{\"type\":\"Sense\",\"name\":\"Tremorsense\",\"calculation\":\"Set Base\",\"valueFormula\":{\"flatValue\":60}}"}]
- data-builderImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/roll20-cdn/advanced-sheets-production-9b1f7af9/dnd2024byroll20/assets/compendium/2024/species/PHB2024%20Dwarf.png
- filter-Darkvision: Yes
- filter-Natural Armor: No
- filter-Special Senses: Yes
- filter-Natural Attacks: No
- filter-Innate Spellcasting: No

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Free Basic Rules (2024)

