# Dwarves - Nani

**description**: The dwarves are descendants of the titans from early times. Back in those days, dwarves were towering, magical beings called gigantes, serving their ancestors, the titans, by bringing order to the chaotic flux of magic. This was mostly done by mining the Earth for stone and ore, which was then used to build palaces for the titans to live in, and armor and weapons to make them invincible. Then two catastrophes happened. The first one is well remembered in the legends of the nani: The titans grew ever greedier for both Possibility and Permanence, until one day they rebelled against God and his plan. The gigantes were forced to choose sides in this conflict, and wisely they chose to stand with God. The titans were imprisoned in the Earth, and the gigantes became their keepers. About the second catastrophe there is much speculation amongst today’s nani. Something terrible must have happened, something which greatly diminished both the physical height and the inherent magic in the gigantes. What it was, most nani are still unsure about. Due to their strong sense of duty, they still guard the prisons of the titans. Their fear of what might happen if their ancestors should ever awaken and force themselves on the Earth again might also play a role. Dwarves live in hidden cities, away from the prying eyes of humans. Of these realms, the most important ones are those that actually guard a titan. Even though dwarves often have kings, queens and a nobility, their societies tend to be much more egalitarian and communal than those of humanity. This might be due to their relatively small number in our times, and so every single dwarf is cherished and much needed. The dwarves remember a time when they were much closer to humanity, and there is some resentment in many nani that this isn’t the case anymore. Back in the days, dwarves helped build the cities of ancient Mesopotamia and Egypt, enjoyed and contributed to the arts and culture of classical Greece, and served in the Roman army. But then, slowly, humanity became self-centered and the rise of the Catholic Church didn’t do much good for the relations of humans and dwarves either. This is quite unfortunate, really, as the teachings of Christ make a lot of sense to many of the nani, but there was less and less space for them in the Church once it became so fixed on dogma. Dwarves – Nani Traits Appearance. Please note that the dwarves in our setting do not necessarily look like the typical fantasy being. Not all of them have huge noses or long beards, and females particularly can be quite beautiful. They will however be of rather stocky and muscular stature. Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom increases by one, and your Constitution by two. Languages. You speak the language of the country you live in, as well as the dominant dwarven dialect of the region. If you have a scholarly background, you will also speak Glossa, the language of the ancient Hellenic dwarves. All other traits as described in the basic rules may be used. We do not use sub-species.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

