# Eldori

**description**: “Some say the nesieve might have been on the cusp of the next phase of evolution. They might have even achieved the mercurial state of the belare at the height of their potential. Maybe what happened to them, the fracturing of their species, was inevitable. Like the belare, they could have been so powerful that the universe needed to give them a lesson in humility. If that was the case, the eldori have certainly learned that lesson better than the rest of us. ” — Gento Mosh, kesh explorer One of the oldest of the major races, the eldori are a people whose wisdom and stability are a product of many years of experience and growth. Self-proclaimed guardians of life in the universe, they are often viewed as pompous but well respected nonetheless. Dawn of the Second Age Of all the races of the Sorium Accord, there have been few more affected by the mystery of the Crucibles than the nesieve. The eldori are one part of the Nesieve race, divided after their first encounter with one of the mysterious Crucibles. Nearly a millennium ago, their native planet, Eldor, was blessed with two moons that graced their night skies for as long as their own legends carry. Once they were able to successfully travel beyond their atmosphere, they discovered that one of these glowing moons was, in fact, a dormant Crucible. When the fledgling spacefarers activated the artifact, an energy surge was unleashed, engulfing Eldor and its sister moon. This event forever changed the destiny of all nesieve. The Awakened Planet The transformation of Eldor was so abrupt and drastic as to be cataclysmic. The landscape erupted into pockets of elemental chaos. Much of the native flora and fauna died out, while some evolved or were replaced by new ones. Even more confusing were the nesieve themselves, exhibiting dangerous and uncontrollable abilities far beyond their comprehension. At first, it seemed as if the pandemonium would spell doom for Eldor. Then, mysteriously, much of the chaos subsided. The nesieve began to adapt and control their newfound abilities, in addition to becoming more attuned to the nature of their world. This metaphysical connection to the ebb and flow of creation became the greatest of gifts from what was originally viewed as the end of their world. With this newfound understanding of their attunement, there also came a renewed hope. Newly evolved as a people, they later came to call themselves “Eldori,” in honor of their reborn homeworld. The Great Wheel The eldori today carry a very spiritual point of view. They believe the creative and destructive power of the Crucibles lie in another state of existence, spinning in an eternal balance they call “The Great Wheel.” Attunement to sorium allows the eldori to speak the language of the Wheel and call upon its power. This bonding method became the foundation for the way sorium is forged and used today. Forces of Nature Eldori look much different today than they did before their awakening. They are humanoid, sharing similar traits with other bipedals. Their skin is mostly smooth with very slight ridges only noticeable by touch, having a texture similar to a soft plant. They range in color from bluish gray to deep blues to blue-green hues. Their hair is commonly silky in texture with colors tending toward bright white, silver, and gray. Their eye color varies from blues and greens to browns, with amber and red not uncommon. Though they are all minor espers to some extent, there are rare cases when an eldori attains full Esper Genesis (in game terms, a character who is 1st level or higher in any character class). This is usually accompanied by the eldori’s hair turning black. The eldori believe this change represents the esper’s ability to walk the shadow between their world and the realm of the Great Wheel. Eldori Names Upon birth, eldori children emanate a faint glow, signifying their connection to an aspect of life and nature. Each child is given a name that symbolizes that aspect of nature. Whether this “glow” is truly evidence of such a connection or merely a byproduct of genetics has been a subject of scientific discussion for centuries. However, it has not stopped the eldori from continuing the practice. Eldori usually take on the surname of their family, though there are some that adopt the name of a famous ancestor. Male Names: Anvar, Aragir, Di’meros, Erdian, Glanan, Helvas, Imridair, Ivas, Poemo, Queleri, Ravin, Roloe, Stavias, Varlis, Yamaris Female Names: Adrea, Analee, Berylia, Cadania, Enri, Ifele, Je’mira, Ki’lenna, Lia, Naivara, Ryla, Valyka, Variel, Xavare, Ze’miri Surnames: Arvacia, Cerno, Danleth, Galaniel, Holridin, Ilfena, Lysenkir, Myralion, Pravian, Safi Eldori Traits The eldori share a few common traits as a result of their spiritual awakening. Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma score increases by 2. Age. Eldori often reach adulthood between the ages of 20-25. They can live as long as 300-400 years. Alignment. As a predominantly peaceful society, they are often good, but there are those that fall into evil ways in spite of their people’s teachings. Size. Eldori have slim builds with heights that vary between 5 to 6 feet on average. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. Your inherent nature grants you the ability to see different shades of light. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were in dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common, Nesieve, and one additional language of your choice. Esper Initiate. You gain use of the aegis talent. At 3rd level, you gain the use of the innervate talent. At 5th level, you gain the use of the clean zone talent. These powers may each be used only once and you regain all uses after you finish a long rest. Sub-species. There are two primary types of eldori with traits often passed down by heritage. Subraces Lunar Eldori Solar Eldori Lorendi: The Harbingers of Shadow A large group of nesieve were affected differently by the awakening from their eldori counterparts. Embracing the power of destruction and darkness over balance, these nesieve became the militaristic society known as the lorendi, named after their ambitious leader, Loren Kaysa. They were banished from Eldor, to wander in their mission to conquer worlds beyond. The lorendi are covered in detail in the Threats Database .

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

