# Elves - Elfi

**description**: The elves are emigrés from the fae realm. They are the descendants of fae who wanted what humans could have: children and family, and thus a measure of Permanence. The price they had to pay for this was mortality. Since bearing children is almost impossible in the fae realm, and strictly forbidden to anyone but the queens anyway, they are stranded in the human realm and live their lives just as humans do, but usually hidden away in some form to prevent persecution. There are small communities of elves scattered about the world; in Italy, there are a few villages deep in the woods, and underground communities in the catacombs of Rome and Naples. A few elf families have settled in Pienza. Read about it in the chapter about the half-elves. Elves – Elfi Traits Languages. You speak the language of the country you live in as well as the elvish tongue, which is a bastardisation of the ancient Fae. Religion. The religious beliefs of the elves, while varying quite a bit between different communities, are usually centered on a mixture of either Christian, pantheistic or gnostic dogma with myths pertaining to the origin of the elves. In elven folklore, they are either cast-outs from the quasi-paradise of the fae realm to atone for their sins against the queen and her edicts (they are often known as the Malaparti, forced to live on the wrong side of the veil), or they see themselves as envoys of the “fallen” fae who have been punished with exile by the Lord, tasked with atoning for the queens’ deeds in averting God’s just punishment of the world. A few elven communities believe the Fae queens to be the creators of the world, and their offspring to be their quasi-angelic servants and messengers. According to the former belief, the fae are God’s servants tasked with protecting mankind, a belief that is actually somewhat close to the truth, considering the fae efforts to avert disasters as much as they can, so as not to imperil their Great Work of repairing the Sundering. According to the latter creed, the original elves living on Earth before the Great Flood averted a God-sent disaster with the help of their witchcraft. In response, God ripped the world in two and banished the elves to this new realm of swirling chaos, there to use their powers to fight with the untamed forces of nature for eternity while mankind endured the flood which cleansed it of its sins. Again, this belief is, in its own way, not too far from the truth. The task of those Earthbound elves following the second creed (who often call themselves “The Returned – Il Rimpatriati”) is to atone with good deeds and fear of God until such time that God has been swayed and their ancestors are forgiven. Most elves expect to go to the elven realm after they die, there to either dwell in bliss among God’s favored people (the fae) or wait for eventual divine forgiveness, depending on which version forms the basis of their beliefs. All other traits as described in the basic rules may be used. We do not use sub-species.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 30058

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

