# Ember Half-Orc

**description**: Half-Orcs in the world Not all orcs on Virthys were as civilized as the Ember Orcs. And the more tribal savages had offspring with other races, in particular humans, just as on other worlds. During the War of Vallenis, many of them became mercenaries. Half-orc chieftains sometimes led their entire clans into war, for glory and treasure. The last few decades on Virthys are known to many orcs as the Days of Blood. While this allowed them to live as mighty warriors, the death toll was so high that the orcs have an ambivalent feeling to this time period. Some half-orcs found their way to more civilized lands, or even actively retreated from the bloodshed. And then there are, of course, the offspring of Ember Orcs with other races. The Ember Half-Orcs are seen as valuable members of society, and treated just as everyone else. The most common variant is offspring with humans. But Ember Half-Orcs with other races are also known. Ember Half-Orc Children of Ember Orcs and Humans, this race shares many traits with regular half-orcs. They have the same red skin as Ember Orcs, though, and the typical red or yellow eyes. Most of them grew up and live in the Ember Wastelands, but sometimes they (or their parents) journeyed off into the world. Either travellers or immigrants in other regions, they know how to adapt to different cultures. Ilūkī, Ember Half-Orc and Watcher of the Zarizan pyramid Traits Replacing the Ability Score Increase, as well as the Menacing and Relentless Endurance traits of regular half-orcs, Ember Half-Orcs gain the Ability Score Increase of Ember Orcs, and their traits Master Craftsmen and Fire Resistance. Ability Score Increase: Intelligence+2, Constitution+1 Age: Ember Half-orcs mature a little faster than humans, reaching adulthood around age 14. They age noticeably faster and rarely live longer than 75 years. Alignment: Ember Half-orcs are used to living together with Ember Orcs, elemental creatures, giants, humans and other races. They aren't treated very differently from Ember Orcs, although some of them still feel as outsiders. Most of them have a neutral alignment, but good and evil individuals are not only heard of: They are accepted in Ember Orc culture, as long as they don't limit other people's journey of self-development. Size: Ember Half-orcs are sometimes larger and bulkier than humans, many have a very similar body shape. They range from 5 to well over 6 feet tall, with little difference between male and female members of the race. Your size is Medium. Speed: Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision: Thanks to your orc blood, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Savage Attacks: When you score a critical hit with a melee weapon attack, you can roll one of the weapon’s damage dice one additional time and add it to the extra damage of the critical hit. Master Craftsmen: You can roll any check to craft an item or use a toolset with advantage. Once used, you need a short rest before you can use this ability again. Fire Resistance: You are resistant to fire damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

