# Erina

**description**: The enigmatic hedgehog-folk trace their history back to the beginning of the world—further back than even elves can trace—to the first groves and wild grasslands, to those green places between the elemental poles that birthed all that is. Or so the erina druids like to claim. The erina are a small-statured race of creatures resembling bipedal hedgehogs. They often escape the notice of the powerful rulers of the land, though anyone traveling through the wilds would do well to have them as allies. Curious Erina are a highly intelligent species whose natural curiosity and cunning serve them well. They are always probing around the limits of their territory and keep a careful record of their environment. Erina seem supernaturally aware of their surroundings and have a keen eye for things that are out of place or novel. Scroungers Erina subsist by scrounging. In the wild, their diet consists of fruit, roots, insects, and small animals that come within range of their spears. The few erina who make their homes in cities live in much the same way. For this reason, erina sometimes run afoul of the law, though they are not naturally greedy. Defenders of Hearth and Home The erina generally worship deities focused on the hearth and home. The tenets of such deities regarding defense of home align very well with the erina’s territorial nature. The burrows of the erina contain a dizzying number of tunnels and chambers with multiple camouflaged entrances and exits. Invading an erina burrow is a nightmarish experience, as the little defenders burrow over, under, and beside their enemies with alarming speed, striking from a freshly dug hole before retreating to safety. Erina Abroad Erina tend to live in large communities of their own kind. Occasionally, compatible fey creatures may lair near or even within an erina burrow. On occasion, some erina are so overcome with curiosity that they leave their homes to investigate the world beyond. These adventurous erina make excellent rangers and druids, exploring the unknown wilderness with a grin and a twitching nose. Other times, if there is a great threat to the region where the erina have dug their burrows, the defenders of the colony embark on a mission to face the danger nose-on. On rare occasions, some erina may find their actions warrant expulsion from the burrow. Erina communities are often suspicious of warlocks and sorcerers, and members of the colony who make bargains with strange entities or who exhibit dangerous connections to powerful magic are often escorted out of the burrow. Erina Language Erina speak their own language, a series of whirring sounds punctuated by clicks. Erina can also communicate with other erina using only twitches of the nose and whiskers, though this old non-verbal language has fallen out of fashion in recent generations. Most burrows have at least one member who speaks the Common tongue. Erina Names Erina names translate very poorly into other languages. When outside erina lands, erinas tend to adopt names with long, open vowel sounds. These sounds are rare in their own language and bring pleasure to their ears. Erina are certain to extend the vowel sounds in their names when introducing themselves. Individual Names: May-nay, Wayee, Leemay, Einore, Die-Nu, Lowno Erina Traits Your erina character has traits which complement its curiosity, sociability, and fierce nature. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and you can choose to increase either your Wisdom or Charisma score by 1. Age. Erina reach maturity around 15 years and can live up to 60 years, though some erina burrow elders have memories of events which suggest erina can live much longer. Alignment. Erina are good-hearted and extremely social creatures who have a difficult time adapting to the laws of other species. Size. Erina average about 3 feet tall and weigh about 50 pounds. Your size is Small. Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Darkvision. Accustomed to life in the dark burrows of your people, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Hardy. The erina diet of snakes and venomous insects has made them hardy. You have advantage on saving throws against poison, and you have resistance against poison damage. Spines. Erina grow needle-sharp spines in small clusters atop their heads and along their backs. While you are grappling a creature or while a creature is grappling you, the creature takes 1d4 piercing damage at the start of your turn. Keen Senses. You have proficiency in the Perception skill. Digger. You have a burrowing speed of 20 feet, but you can use it to move through only earth and sand, not mud, ice, or rock. Languages. You can speak Erina and either Common or Sylvan.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 16832

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

