# Finfolk Adult

**description**: “The roar of the sea is my calling. I may stand on land, but the water still tries to find me, kissing the shores again and again to woo my earth-walking legs back home.” - Wenda Ryba, Finfolk artisan Mysterious and enchanting, Finfolk are closely connected with the sea. While perfectly able to live their whole lives out of the water, Finfolk feel most at home in watery environments, often seen gracefully swimming or hunting for fish in the ocean. Human in appearance, Finfolk have smooth skin and very little body hair compared to their land-dwelling cousins. Their ears have two enlarged pointed helices, which allow them to perceive sounds easily, especially underwater. Finfolk also have nearly imperceptible gills at the base of their neck, allowing them to both breathe and speak underwater. The most notable difference of the Finfolk compared to other Human variants are their webbed fingers and toes, which can vary in prominence from person to person, as well as their slightly pointed teeth, both known to be adaptations to their genes over thousands of years living off the ocean. Additionally, their skin tone has the broadest range of colors, from silvery white, blue, and green to various shades of pinks and browns, to blues and the deepest black, each genetically passed down from the areas of the seas and lakes where their ancestors lived. Traditional Finfolk homes are often in the shallower parts of the ocean, usually within a mile of the coast, due to the safety and temperature of the water. However, more and more Finfolk have begun to live on land, in shoreline bluffs and seaside caves or even in larger villages and cities when they want a change of pace and scenery. Their clothing is often light and made from seaweed, netting, and found objects, and their armor is fashioned from shells and discarded metals found underwater. However, Finfolk often travel for adventure and may wear the fashions of the towns they visit to blend in. No matter how far they stray from home, though, finfolk are drawn to the water, dreaming of its playful waves and the salty sea air. Blessed by the Waves Many Finfolk believe that the Wardlings of their species are blessed by the ocean’s waves. A ritual of the Finfolk involves blessing their infants in the waters of their homeland to encourage DexMya to fill the baby with Oor, calling upon the creatures of the waters to send their mightiest guardians to become their child’s familiar. A fruitful ritual is said to also cause more prominent webbing on a Finfolk’s hands and feet as they grow, which is seen as good fortune passed down by the twin gods. While this has no actual bearing on the magical ability of the child, it does make them more agile and athletic in the water, though all finfolk are excellent swimmers. Finfolk Names Modern trends after years of assimilation into land-dwelling human culture have resulted in Common first names for Finfolk children, while keeping the family’s surnames, which are typically derivatives of Aquan. However, while traveling among those not of Finfolk ancestry, most use a Common translation of their surname as well, as Aquan is difficult for those who do not speak it fluently to pronounce. Finfolk children are often named after treasures of the deep, as they are likewise treasures to their parents. Sample First Names : Bay, Briny, Caspar, Coral, Cove, Delbin, Dune, Echo, Finn, Harbor, Jett, Mara, Moray, Nautica, Pearl, Pike, River, Shell, Waverly Sample Surnames : Ammliq (Seaserpent), Glubbnelg (Riverbed), Luubmuk (Coralstrike), Shasabbllug (Clearwater), Ullglub (Darkcurrent), Waabliq (Sea-seer) Finfolk Traits As a Finfolk, you are granted genetic traits that your ancestors have developed over time, both in and out of the water. Ability Score Increase . Your Constitution score increases by 1. Age . Finfolk reach adulthood by the age of 18, although some mature a bit later than others. The average natural lifespan for finfolk is 75 years. Alignment . Finfolk are raised to be Lawful Good, keeping watch over the sea and protecting its mysteries, however all races will have those who seek reward from greed or evil instead of good. Finfolk Wardlings are always Good or Neutral, ranging from Lawful to Chaotic. Size . Finfolk range in size as their land-dwelling Human cousins do, generally between 5 to 6 feet. With swimmers’ builds, Finfolk tend to be lean and muscular. Finfolk adults are size Medium, while children who have not hit their growth spurt will be under 4 feet tall and are Small. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet if you are Medium sized or 25 feet if you are Small sized, doubled if swimming. Enhanced Darkvision . As a Finfolk, your eyes have adjusted to the darkened underwater depths, allowing you to see within 120 feet of you in water up to 50 feet deep, starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of low illumination. You can see in complete darkness as if it were dim light. But, you can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Resilience . You have advantage on saving throws against poison and you are resistant to poison damage. Underwater Breath . You can breathe and speak underwater. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and Aquan (Primordial).

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

