# Gearforged

**description**: Originally created as powerful soldiers, gearforged must now find their own paths to navigate the second life they’ve been given. Many devote themselves to civil service, others to their gods. Some dedicate their extraordinarily long lives to the pursuit of knowledge. A few, naturally, seek out lives of adventure. The gearforged are an artificial race. More importantly, its members are created one at a time and come from a vast array of backgrounds. Nevertheless, they maintain rich traditions of history, culture, and spirituality all their own. Form and Function All gearforged were once other creatures with flesh-and-blood bodies, but their conscious minds were transplanted into articulated bodies of iron, steel, brass, and wood, driven by pistons and springs. Each is as distinctive in appearance as other people are. Some entities spend a fortune on these new bodies, while others scrape together anything that will work—especially if the subject is aging or ill. All gearforged are made in humanoid shape, often in the likeness of the person’s original race. The vast majority of gearforged are created from and shaped like humans, who were the first creators of gearforged. Gearforged have articulated joints, hands, feet, and crystal-lens eyes. Gearforged mechanisms are more than mechanical, because gearforged are machines with souls. Their arms and legs are driven by everwound springs. Their minds are actuated by memory gears, transverse cognition gearing, and the marvel of a soul gem connected directly to a maze of silver and mithral steam, spark, and magical conduits. These elements reside in a shell of iron, brass, and steel. Gearforged Components The range of gearforged anatomy in all its variants is remarkable, but all gearforged share some common parts. Everwound Springs. These magical springs provide energy over long periods, effectively acting as the power sources for most of the gearforged’s moving parts. A broken everwound spring results in the loss of function in that digit or limb, much like a damaged joint or ligaments in a flesh-and-blood creature. Soul Gem. The mind of a gearforged creature is as sharp as that of any flesh-and-blood soul, but it is more portable. The animating, vital principle of a gearforged—its will, its personality, its mind—are retained in a soul gem. The destruction of this gem means the death of that gearforged. Memory Gears. These delicate constructions are scroll-like ribbons pierced with thousands of pin holes and wound about with tiny enchantments of great complexity. The memory of a gearforged for all the days after its creation lives in the memory gears. Older gearforged have many such gears, and the material component for the magic to create them requires one new gear for every 10 years of life. Installing a new memory gear requires one day’s work and 2,000 gp. Other gearforged can read memory gears salvaged from a dead gearforged, but it’s a complex, time-consuming process. It’s also viewed with some alarm by most gearforged, since it is akin to peering into the most private details of a creature’s life. When a used memory gear is installed in a new or existing gearforged, the process takes three days’ work to avoid damaging the memories in the gear, and it takes one week before the recipient can fully interpret and understand the memories. Gearforged Names Some gearforged use the same name they had before they became gearforged. Others adopt a new name, drawing on any culture they admire. A few take on an aspirational name representing a virtue they hope to embody, such as Courage, Noble, Faithful, Endurance, or Truth. Gearforged Traits Your gearforged character has certain characteristics in common with all other gearforged. Ability Score Increase. Two different ability scores of your choice increase by 1. Age. The soul inhabiting a gearforged can be any age. As long as its new body is kept in good repair, there is no known limit to how long it can function. Alignment. No single alignment typifies gearforged, but most gearforged maintain the alignment they had before becoming gearforged. Size. Your size is determined by your Race Chassis. Speed. Your base walking speed is determined by your Race Chassis. Construct Resilience. Your body is constructed, which frees you from some of the limits of flesh-and-blood creatures. You have resistance to poison damage, you are immune to disease, and you have advantage on saving throws against being poisoned. Construct Vitality. You don’t need to eat, drink, or breathe, and you don’t sleep the way most creatures do. Instead, you enter a dormant state where you resemble a statue and remain semiconscious for 6 hours a day. During this time, the magic in your soul gem and everwound springs slowly repairs the day’s damage to your mechanical body. While in this dormant state, you have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks. After resting in this way, you gain the same benefit that a human does from 8 hours of sleep. Living Construct. Your consciousness and soul reside within a soul gem to animate your mechanical body. As such, you are a living creature with some of the benefits and drawbacks of a construct. Though you can regain hit points from spells like cure wounds , you can also be affected by game effects that specifically target constructs, such as the shatter spell. As long as your soul gem remains intact, game effects that raise a creature from the dead work on you as normal, repairing the damaged pieces of your mechanical body (restoring lost sections only if the spell normally restores lost limbs) and returning you to life as a gearforged. Alternatively, if your body is destroyed but your soul gem and memory gears are intact, they can be installed into a new body with a ritual that takes one day and 10,000 gp worth of materials. If your soul gem is destroyed, only a wish spell can restore you to life, and you return as a fully living member of your original race. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common, Machine Speech (a whistling, clicking language that’s incomprehensible to non-gearforged ears), and a language associated with your Race Chassis. Race Chassis. Four races are known to create unique gearforged, building mechanical bodies similar in size and shape to their people: dwarf, gnome, human, and kobold. Choose one of these forms. Gearforged Chassis Dwarf Chassis Gnome Chassis Human Chassis Kobold Chassis

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

