# Gifted

**description**: As a species, the gifted are not distinct from humans; rather, they are individuals of the human race who are either born with a special “gift”, or acquire it during their lifetime under various circumstances, and usually bear a visible mark of their exceptionality. Almost as numerous as the gifted themselves, the traditions regarding their birth and the reason for their unique powers, innate or otherwise, include being: descendants of a malebranche or a turquoise; conceived during special planetary conjunctions; seventh children of seventh children; born with a silver spoon in their mouth; born prematurely; blessed by saints; marked by the Quinotaur; swapped in the cradle by elves; born in Mala Tempora (the darkest period of the year), on Mortal Night or during a lightning storm; chosen by the Prophecies; or delivered when their mother sneezed in the vegetable garden: old wives’ tales and legends are rife with children born with special powers. The gifted can be all of this and more. Fun Nicknames: whizkids, merlins, zataros, paragnostics. Typical Names: generally the same as humans’, though sometimes the gifted take on stage names or are given nicknames based on their physical peculiarities or powers. How Other Races See Them Because of the insidious and covert powers and more or less visible exceptional traits of the gifted, the first reaction of ordinary people toward them is often one of mistrust, if not outright suspicion: the farmer’s daughter with the fiery-red hair or the blazing-eyed wanderer could be heretics, sorcerers, or jinxes who bring nothing but trouble. Truth be told, in a world full of hogwash, brutes, and freaks, gifted who mind their own business are the lesser evil for commoners. In fact, a well-meaning individual with some special magical talent is often seen as a potential blessing. Gifted Traits Ability Score Increase. Two different ability scores of your choice increase by 1. You may have more or less evident physical peculiarities of your choice related to this trait. Age. The life expectancy of a gifted is identical to that of a human, but sometimes the gift you receive consumes your life energies much earlier or preserves them much longer. Size. Gifted are the same size and build as humans. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Magical Influence. You choose a school of magic: Abjuration, Conjuration, Divination, Enchantment, Evocation, Illusion, Necromancy, or Transmutation. You learn a cantrip and a 1st level spell from the chosen school. You can cast those spells at their lower level once with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. You can choose Charisma or Wisdom as your spellcasting ability for these spells. Magical Resonance. At the end of a short rest, you can choose to regain a 1st level spell slot. Brawl Feature: Magical Adaptation. You can choose your moves from the magic moves list as well as the general moves list.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

