# Godsong Scions

**description**: “I’ve only met a godsinger once. It was at the moment she awoke—I ain’t never heard anything like it, and I might never again.” —Nilmuan Malrinn, dragonborn naval captain There is power in music. Choruses have thrummed through celestial realms since the first sounds echoed across the great vastness of space and existence. When a mortal is born with a divine song in their blood and a connection to an empyrean chorus, they are called a godsinger. Godsong scions are hymnal, drawn to where they can join their voice with others’ voices for a higher calling. They can be found among soldiers, adventurers, rebels, refugees—wherever their song can reach, empower, embolden, and aid others, that is where they lift their voices highest, heard above the thunder of tyranny and suffering. Thrumming Appearance Avatars of intangible power, godsingers bear manifestations of untouchable radiance as they sing. When they manifest, their wings are made of light, glistening currents of wind, or reverberating colors. Music notes, wafting glints of light, or visible tremors in the air surround them when their voice resounds. Their power is wholly apparent in their divine appearance, just as it is in their song. Joining the Chorus Godsingers are not soloists. Music has bound together communities, workers, clergy, sailors, and more throughout history, and godsong scions revel in the bonds created by workers’ songs, shanties, and hymns. While a godsinger may seek to find their individual song, their music is inherently communal—their holy calling is to be around people, to bolster others, to administer aid to those in need. Godsingers who use their songs only for glory, selfish recognition, or vapid or frivolous entertainment find that their inspiration and their connections to the songs that came before them rapidly wane. They forget songs they have known since birth and struggle to write arrangements or improvise ditties as they once did. They don’t lose their powers, but they lose their artistry . As their divine virtuosity dwindles, their Celestial progenitor reminds them that the most holy use of their voice is to uplift others as much as themselves, and returning to their calling opens the font of inspiration once more. Awakening the Song From birth, godsong scions display complex vocal aptitude—even their infant cries are melodious—and they innately know the choruses that Celestials have sung for millennia. But each godsinger also has an individual song, a melody imprinted in their very soul. Some know that song intrinsically, while others spend their lives searching for their divine hymn.When a godsong scion discovers their unique song, they achieve their awakening. An awakened godsinger feels connected with their divine origins, confident in their holy calling, and certain of themselves in the vast cosmos. They know they are the universe’s gentle, coaxing lullaby, its resounding rallying cry, or its sweet crooning on a warm summer’s eve. Most godsong scions awaken at a moment when they feel certain in their identity and purpose—the moment they realize, “This is who I am and why I’m here.” It is an empowering experience, one that many godsingers ache for as they join the choruses of scions before them. The Awakening GMs with unawakened godsong scions in their campaigns should work with their players to find a moment of awakening. Such a moment could occur in combat against a personal foe, when the character achieves a long-sought goal, when they finally meet their Celestial progenitor, or any other affirming, triumphant moment. Or, the godsigner may awaken during a quiet moment—perhaps, on the verge of breaking and despair, they hear a soft melody that reminds them who they are. At the GM’s discretion, a godsong scion’s awakening could provide temporary boosts to their traits. For example, Bolstering Hymn could gain a range of 60 feet instead of 30 feet for 7 days (or, if near the end of the campaign, until the end of the story). Boundless Voice could last an hour instead of 10 minutes. Tying even a small mechanical boon to the moment of awakening can greatly increase the impact of such a moment, creating catharsis and triumph. Godsinging and Adventuring Granted holy gifts of voice and song, and heir to the empowering songs of those who came before, godsong scions are naturally suited to roles of leadership, communication, and diplomacy, becoming battlefront paladins and inspiring bards. But many famous godsingers of legend found unconventional ways to adventure and lead others. The godsinger rogue Cora Elaina snuck into prison encampments and aided rebellions with her low, raspy songs of solidarity and hope. Owain Cogswright, the scion artificer whose warbling tenor voice echoed through his workshop and inspired a burst of innovation, is credited with advancing technology decades forward over the span of a few years. Heavenly Music A godsinger’s music can take any form—“hymnal” and “holy” singing does not necessitate a single style of music, a single genre, or a single atmosphere. Any style of music befits a godsong scion. Godsinging is and has always been united—a chorus for anyone to join, no matter who they are and what they love. When godsingers find their niche, beautiful and impossible things come of it. Godsong Scion Traits Your godsong scion has the following traits. Ability Score Increase Your Charisma score increases by 2, and one other ability score of your choice increases by 1. Ability Scores While each scion ancestry provides suggested ability score increases, you are encouraged to increase one ability score of your choice by 2 and another by 1 if you wish, just as many fifth edition supplements now support. Age Godsong scions mature at the same rate as humans, but they can live up to 150 years. Alignment Like other scions, most godsingers are good. However, they can fall anywhere between the extremes of diligently lawful and rebelliously chaotic. Virtuoso You learn the guidance cantrip. In addition, you gain proficiency in the Performance skill. Boundless Voice As an unparalleled orator, you can use a bonus action to make your speech intelligible to any creature for 10 minutes. For the duration, creatures can magically understand you, regardless of the language you speak. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest. Bolstering Hymn You are a beacon of song—those around you bask in the light of your voice and your eternal hymn. Starting at 3rd level, you can use your action to unleash the divine energy within yourself, emanating light and radiance to your allies and empowering them with your godsong. When you transform, friendly creatures within 30 feet of you that can hear you gain temporary hit points equal to your level. Your transformation lasts for 1 minute or until you end it as a bonus action. Once on each of your turns during this time, you can choose a friendly creature within 30 feet of you that you can see. That creature can deal extra radiant damage to one target when it deals damage to it with an attack or spell on its turn. The extra radiant damage equals your level. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 11

