# Grim

**description**: Grims "Though I’ve yet to meet a grim as old as myself, they are long lived. And in those long lives, they have seen much. Seldom have I spent a more pleasant evening than among the grims, sharing tall tales and listening to their delightful music. Their perspective is unusual for they see the world quite differently than those of us who live most of our lives on the surface. Yet, they can become restless and short-tempered, especially if reminded of all they believe they have lost. Respect those moments and leave them be; never overstay your welcome!" —Otis the Historian The grims are children of Grimnir. Most are comfortable beneath murky lake waters in forests that no raider has ever found. Others were forced to flee their refuges, pushed out by raiders, Baendur, and monsters. The grim often form small communities that linger near, but not entirely within, existing raider towns. They fish, they mend nets, and, for coin or food, they might even sing in feast halls. Though many grims still lament the lives they have lost, the younger generation embraces the dynamic communities of the raiders. They long to spread their music to shores far and wide across all of Grimnir. Creatures of the Water All grims long for water—whether sea, river, or pool. It is comforting to them to be submerged and to stare up at the world around them, watching and observing from a distance. Grims breathe underwater through a primal magic that no mortal truly understands. Their ears are wide and pointed, and they tend to have green or blue skin to blend in with their murky habitats. Their eyes are often light yellow or green, and skin flaps on their arms and legs can extend, helping them swim. Of Two Natures Grims have conflicted souls. They originated with Grimnir when it was created and perhaps their internal conflict arises from the turmoil that surrounded that creation. Some grims live their entire lives indulging in their music—performing or teaching others how to play instruments, sing, and entertain. Others resent the encroachment of mortals into their pools and waterfalls and do what they can to deter trespassers. But it is never so simple. For within each grim is the capacity for both a deep love and appreciation of life as well as a cruel selfishness. As events in their lives unfold, they may change their very nature and walk many different paths. Grim Names Their names tend to be that of the community of which they are a part, though they prefer short names, often with only a single syllable. Names: Ack, Cay, Clu, Fas, Gorm, Hil, Liv, Nok, Ru, Strom, Tora, Toke, Ulf. Grim Traits Grims have the following traits. Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. Age. Grims live longer than humans, up to 250 years. Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose the size when you select this race. Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet, and you have a climbing and swimming speed equal to half your walking speed. Amphibious. You can breathe air and water. Darkvision. You see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light (colors in this darkness are seen as shades of gray). Musical. You begin play with proficiency in a musical instrument of your choice. Trickster. You know the thaumaturgy cantrip. Primal Drives. After each long rest you decide whether you are driven by cruelty or hope. Hopeful grims have the musician features. Cruel grims embrace their bloodthirsty side and have the lurker features. You lose the benefits of the previous drive when you change drives. If you forget to declare your drive, you have the lurker features. Musician The songs of the forest, the wind, and the waters fill your soul, and you want nothing more than to frolic beneath the waves, sing, or play music on any nearby instrument. Natural Swimmer. Your swimming speed becomes equal to your walking speed. Sweet Voice. You have advantage when making any Charisma (Performance) check. Share the Music. As an action you may grant one willing creature proficiency with a musical instrument of your choice (even if you do not have proficiency with that instrument). You also extend your innate ability to survive underwater to the target (they gain your Amphibious trait). These features end after one hour, or if you end this trait early by using a bonus action. Nudge the Audience. Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the sleep spell with this trait. Starting at 5th level, you can also cast the suggestion spell. Neither sleep nor suggestion require a material component when you cast them. Once you cast either spell you cannot cast that same spell again until you complete a long rest. You may also cast either spell using any spell slots you have of the appropriate level. Intelligence or Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for these spells (choose when you select this race). Lurker You fear for the beauty and grace of the natural world. Others want to destroy what you love but those that try, will suffer for it. Ambusher. Your climbing speed becomes equal to your walking speed and your jump distance is doubled. You have advantage when making Stealth checks while underwater. You also have advantage on Stealth checks while on land, as long as you do not move after hiding. Inflict Harm. Once per turn when you hit an opponent with a weapon or an unarmed strike you may inflict extra damage of the type indicated by the weapon equal to your proficiency bonus. Murky Depths. Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the fog cloud spell with this trait. Starting at 5th level, you can also cast the invisibility spell without requiring verbal, somatic, or material components. Once you cast either spell you cannot cast that same spell again until you complete a long rest. You may also cast either spell using any spell slots you have of the appropriate level. Intelligence or Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for these spells (choose when you select this race).

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

