# Grimalkin

**description**: Whenever the grimalkin caravans come to town, all the casinos hire extra muscle to keep a special eye on those tricky fey cats. Their good fortune seems an awful lot like cheating. Or maybe it’s their cheating that looks an awful lot like good fortune? —Victor, thief The grimalkin were once a people divided. There were grimalkin native to the Feywild and grimalkin native to the Shadowfell. The two sides were locked in a war which, for grimalkin, meant an endless parade of usually harmless, often elaborate, and occasionally cruel pranks. As the war dragged on from decades to millennia, denizens of the Shadowfell and the Feywild conspired with one another for a way to be rid of these nuisances for good. Eventually an agreement was struck and the grimalkin were driven from the Shadowfell and the Feywild and a curse was laid over their race that only so many could gather in each of those realms at a time. Although annoyed at having to endure the consequences of forced relocation, the grimalkin were quite pleased with the dramatic extent of the reaction their warring had elicited in others. Fancy Felines In appearance, grimalkin are nearly indistinguishable from a large, bipedal house cat. They usually stand slightly below 3 feet tall and weigh no more than 30 pounds and have a tail about a third again of their size in length. When they lived in other realms, their coats were more uniform but today, breeding between the two groups has caused any number of fur patterns to manifest. A grimalkin’s eyes are usually green, purple, or golden. Despite how easily they can pass themselves off as house cats, grimalkin rarely do so unless it’s part of a prank or gambit. When dealing with members of other races, grimalkin tend to wear an excessive amount of clothing and accessories, as if that were the proof necessary to show they are indeed a race of people and not an animal. Grimalkin fashion is considered garish and mismatched by most other races. Cat Caravans Grimalkin are widely mistrusted by other peoples and thus often live in their own itinerant communities. These communities can be as small as a couple of families in a few wagons to dozens of families in nearly a hundred wagons. Traveling from settlement to settlement, grimalkin take work as couriers, entertainers, and farmhands. They also make money grifting and practicing hedge magic. When the grimalkin were exiled from the Feywild and Shadowfell, they brought with them the many strange customs they had developed in those alien places. Although they came together as one people, they had two distinct cultures based on their prior plane of origin. After a few generations, these customs mingled and now would seem out of place even if they were to return to their distant homes. Most of these idiosyncratic customs are based around death or self-expression. For example, during card games, they always deal a hand for the most recently deceased mutual acquaintance they all share and they believe it is bad luck to dance and play a musical instrument simultaneously. Curiouser and Curiouser The grimalkin have a legend that a particularly clever member of their own kind will one day discover a way to lift the curse limiting the number of their kind that can enter the Feywild and Shadowfell. This legend inspires some grimalkin to split away from their caravans to search for sources of magical power or curry favors from powerful wizards or interplanar beings. Grimalkin are a curious people as a rule. They travel the world in caravans with their families, but occasionally find something in the world that captures their attention and decide that they can’t leave it until they’ve discovered everything there is to know about it. Some grimalkin may even inadvertently become adventurers as they wander too far from their traveling caravans and never find their way back again. Grimalkin Names A grimalkin’s name consists of as many as four parts, depending on their parentage and family history. Those grimalkin with ancestors from the Feywild use their personal name, their mother’s personal name, their father’s personal name, and “...of the Shine.” Grimalkin with ancestors from the Shadowfell use their personal name, their father’s personal name, their mother’s personal name, and “...of the Gloom.” Grimalkin who do not know their parents do not include their parent’s personal names as part of their full name but may still choose to associate themselves with a historical conclave of grimalkin if they wish. There is a movement among younger grimalkin to abandon references to the old war altogether and drop both epithets from their names. Female Names: Blythe, Cady, Corliss, Demelza, Godiva, Idina, Matilda, Nara, Radella, Rowena, Sabella, Zelda. Male Names: Alder, Arundel, Beldon, Colbert, Dayton, Digby, Erskine, Kenelm, Methra, Nedes, Oswin, Seabert, Tostig. Grimalkin Traits Your grimalkin character has the following racial traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity, Intelligence, and Charisma scores increase by 1. Age. Grimalkin are considered adults at age 6, elders by age 28, and rarely live past 50 years of age. Alignment. Grimalkin are fiercely independent and willful. They are almost always chaotic. Grimalkin tend to be self-serving but not to the extent that they are cruel. Most are neutral. Size. Grimalkin are usually just shy of 3 feet tall and weigh about 30 pounds. Your size is Small. Speed. Your base walking speed is 25. Catlike. You have advantage on ability checks made to trick others into believing you are just a house cat. Claws. Because of your claws, you have a climbing speed of 20 feet. In addition, your claws are natural weapons, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, you deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. Darkvision. Accustomed to the perpetually twilit forests of the Feywild or the lightless skies of the Shadowfell, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Mischievous Talent. You gain proficiency with one of the following skills of your choice: Acrobatics, Deception, Insight, Perception, or Stealth. Steal Fortune. When a creature you can see within 30 feet makes an ability check, attack roll, or saving throw, you can use your reaction to give that roll disadvantage. When you do, one ability check, attack roll, or saving throw of your choice that you make within the next minute gains advantage. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common. To others, the grimalkin dialect of Common sounds all the same, but to a grimalkin, the Feywild and Shadowfell dialects are almost completely separate languages.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

