# Half-dwarves - Mezzi-Nani

**description**: Early in history dwarves have mated with humans and thus the species of half-dwarves was born. Unlike pure dwarves, half-dwarves do not shun human company, but actively seek it out instead. Many are proud artisans who have created beautiful works of art or contributed to famous cathedrals, like Nanni di Banco “Il nano Nanni” (1373–1421), who worked on the facade of the duomo in Florence. Others are prosperous merchants or even scholars, but most prefer a more active lifestyle and like to work with their hands. Although they are involved in human society, they try to avoid politics, which they find annoying and pointless. Mezzi-nani have been crucial for maintaining contact between pure dwarves and the human world. They act as go-betweens and see to it that the more seclusive clans in their underground places are always up-to-date with the newest technical advancements and all important developments in the “outer” world. Half-dwarves are in some way the best possible combination of species: They do have the resilience and reliability of dwarves, but do not share their inherent mistrust of others. Despite their longevity, they are much quicker to adapt to new situations and eager to learn and develop. They are self-confident and not easily distracted and quite realistic when it comes to assessing situations. This makes them successful in almost anything they attempt. Half-dwarves are family people and will usually stay close to their clans, live in the same neighborhood, share all important life events and in general be very protective towards all kin. In this, they are basically like the average Italian human. But what makes them really different is the high status that female half-dwarves hold. In contrast to their human counterparts, they will usually learn and work in a profession, and will not permit anyone to restrict their rights to do so. This is were they will clash with the refined Renaissance view of women. They will, however, usually make up for it with their positive outlook and wealth. By the way: The singular masculine and feminine forms of mezzi-nani are mezzo-nano and mezza-nana. Half-Dwarves – Mezzi-Nani Traits Appearance. They do not stand out much in human society. They are rather stocky and muscular, but this does not make them ridiculous in any way. Imagine a short wrestler. Half-dwarves are usually dressed with care and appropriate to their standing. Younger half-dwarves sometimes tend towards extravagance while the elders will appear more conservative. Half-dwarves will have the most amazing wavy or curly hair, and females in particular will carry it with pride and in elaborate styles. They can be incredibly attractive. Ability score increase. Your Constitution score increases by 1, as does your Wisdom. Age. Half-dwarves mature at the same speed as humans, but will live quite a bit longer, up to 200 years. After the age of 100, they will often quit human society and go live with their dwarf relatives. Alignment. If you use alignments, half-dwarves will usually be lawful and either good or neutral, but it is of course up to you. If you choose to be chaotic evil, please create a good background story to explain why. Size. Although they seldom stand taller than 5 feet (1,6 meters), half-dwarves will never be as short as some pure dwarves. Your size is medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Special dwarven skills. You share the dwarven skills darkvision (although restricted to 30 feet), tool proficiency and stonecunning. Self-confidence. You are not easily intimidated or charmed. You get a +2 in any situation that requires a saving throw against such attempts, even spells. Languages. You speak the language of the country you live in as well as the regional dwarfish dialect. Religion. Mezzi-nani will most likely adhere to the human faith of their home country, or more rarely share the beliefs of the pure dwarves. The more recent interpretation of God as a builder and the Renaissance idea of active mortals fits their inherent disposition. In later times, half-dwarves will become crucial in the rise of Freemasonry as well as the Protestant faiths. Odd facts. Female half-dwarves often give birth to twins or triplets and most of their children survive due to their strong constitutions and decent living conditions. This is why half-dwarves are the most numerous of all non-human species. In Florence, they make up more than 1% of the population, without drawing any attention. This is somehow odd, in particular when taking into consideration that they do not hide their affiliation. When asked, they will call themselves half-dwarves or sometimes half-men. But this information will mostly be brushed off as a joke. Humans usually only acknowledge facts they want to find credible!

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

