# Human Wardling

**description**: “When does a man viewed as common become unique? It is only when he makes himself stand out through kindness and bravery.” - Josef Rodson, Human Blacksmith Humans are the most commonly seen race in Ne’Oor, but because they hail from all over the Mainland, they are vastly different from each other in many ways, including their appearance, hairstyles, style of dress, and customs. These are passed down by way of culture and community, rather than just by genetic traits. Wardling humans are more atypical of their race than any other Human variant, which causes many of them to hide their abilities from adults who aren’t keen on the use of magic. Diverse and Determined Human customs are as diverse as their appearance, and attempting to group them into one race is an impossible task. However, what links humans together is their determination and perseverance. Throughout history, humans have pursued their dreams and spread throughout the land, sometimes through chaotic or brutal acts, but always with the goal of their survival. Looking back at their own actions in the growth of their cultures, humans have as a whole progressed towards peace and equality. Human Names Humans take on full names that sometimes also include a middle name. First and middle names are often named after a well-loved ancestor as a sign of respect. Names in general are borrowed from cultures all over Ne’Oor, even elvish or dwarvish ones, proving once again the diversity of the people on the whole. Sample First Names : Aon, Buck, Cade, Darla, Erik, Fen, Gregor, Haley, Imbur, Jackson, Kingsley, Loria, Mical, Pol, Quinn, Robb, Samual, Tanner, Wendell, Yari Sample Surnames : Bricken, Clarkeson, Fletcher, Foxcolt, Huntingsley, Lockend, Maxfort, Merrymore, Summersway Human Traits As a Human, you do not have any exotic abilities, but as you learn and borrow from other cultures, your skills grow. Ability Score Increase . Your ability scores each increase by 1. Age . Humans are seen to reach adulthood by the age of 18, although some mature a bit later than others. The average lifespan for a human is approximately 75 years old, although many live close to a century if they live peaceful and healthy lives. Alignment . Humans can be generous and lawful or greedy and evil (and everything in between). Wardling humans are always Good or Neutral, ranging from Lawful to Chaotic. Size . Humans are varied in size, with their height ranging from an average of 5 to 6 feet tall (and often taller). Their builds also range from very slender to athletic to hefty in size. No matter where an adult falls in that range, their size is Medium. If your older Wardling character is taller than 4 feet, their size is Medium as well, although most human children under 9 years old will be under 4 feet tall and their size is Small. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet if you are Medium sized or 25 feet if you are Small sized. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and one additional language of your choice. Humans typically learn the languages of other peoples they deal with, including obscure dialects. If you live in an area with many Fey, you may know Sylvan. Live near the hilly areas below Icehelm or the mines under Silverbank? Perhaps you know how to speak Dwarvish or even Orcish, if you live near peaceful tribes. Choose any language you think may be useful and that matches your character’s story. Human Wardlings Wardling Bonus . Human Wardlings gain an Intelligence score increase of 1, in addition to their regular Human ability score increase. Cantrip . You know one cantrip of your choice from the wizard spell list. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for it. Familiar Guardian . You have a Familiar of your choice from the Familiar Guardian list (found in Chapter 7: Magic & Familiars), who is charged with protecting you until you reach adulthood. Favored Familiars include dogs, cats, ferrets, ravens, and lizards. 

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

