# Humans - Umani

**description**: After God created Heaven and Earth, he awakened men and women as the first sapient mortals. They are therefore the oldest, but not the most powerful species. Their advantage mostly lies in their adaptability to new situations as well as the strong will to explore and conquer the Earth. Our setting background is based on the worldview of Renaissance Europeans, so most of what you can read in the Bible about the creation and early history of humankind is believed to be true. Humans can be played without any changes to the standard description. Make sure, however, that human characters derive from a “real”, historically correct ethnicity. The ethnic groups of certain well-known fantasy settings will of course not exist in our 15th century setting. As Florence is well connected to the rest of the world, you are free to choose any nationality and background that you find interesting within the realm of the known world. Playing a Native American would make very little sense, as America will only be “discovered” later that year. The same goes for Australians and several peoples in Africa, who are not yet known to European society. And let us go a little further: In order to connect to the ongoings in our story and give you a strong motivation, we recommend that you choose an Italian background or at least one that is set in a country with strong connections to the Italian states. A Chinese monk would surely be an interesting choice, but – despite Marco Polo’s exploits – hard to integrate into the campaign. The more fitting you can make your character, the more fun you will have. Use our historical background material, as well as other sources, like history books or literary fiction, for inspiration. By the way: The singular masculine and feminine forms of umani are umano and umana. Human – Umani Traits Languages. You speak the language of the country you live in and one other human language, contemporary or ancient. You may choose additional languages according to your choice of background. Religion: Native Italians will usually be of Christian faith and adhere to the beliefs of the Roman Catholic Church, as do most other Europeans. Being Jewish is of course another valid option and with so many contacts in the Arab world, the Muslim faith also makes sense. Whatever faith you choose, make sure that it goes with your background story. All other traits as described in the basic rules may be used.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 30058

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

