# Human Branded Tribute

**description**: Humans in the world Humans were the dominant humanoid race on most continents of Virthys. They had the strongest presence in the nations of Rhavun, theocratic countries that, with a few exceptions, were in constant conflict with each other. But they had their realms on other continents, too - with the exception of Zacrath. Also called the Realm of Venom, humans were not welcome in this land of snakes and other reptilian races. After the apocalypse, most humans tried to flock together with the other races - but especially with those that they already had good relations with. Many of them also turned to the old spirits again - from faeries to angels and devils. In the new world, many new pacts were made. This also brought back the "tradition" of human tributes. When the spirit world helped the humanoid races takes over the world, humans gave some of their own as offerings to the dark powers. They were branded with arcane irons, burning the symbols of their new owners into them. But not only the tributes were sold, but all their future offspring: Each and every descendant of such a human would show the evil mark. Called the Branded Tributes , most other humans stayed away from them - both out of fear and shame. Their souls and their lives were sold, but someone else claimed the prize. It's no wonder tribute humans were usually angry, even hateful, and many of them searched for ways to break free of the ancient deals. Most Branded Tribute Humans alive today are descendants of original "offerings" made thousands of years ago. But there are new ones, victims of people who are still aware of the old ways, gaining power by selling off others. The only prerequisite is that the tribute has to "belong" to the person making the deal. Children that haven't matured yet count for this as much as slaves. There are rumors about dark cults adopting children who have lost their parents in the apocalypse. They act as loving foster parents, but it doesn't take long before the poor youngsters are sold off to the forces of darkness. Human Branded Tributes A single symbol, about the size of a human palm, branded deep into the skin. It is no part of any language. No magic seems to be able to remove these signs. Even if they are cut out, they simply grow back. The tributes are branded for life, there's no doubt about it. The symbol can be on any part of the body, but in most cases, it's either on a cheek, the forehead or the neck, or on the chest. There are only few signs of a human being a tribute, aside from the mark. Their hair is either pitch black or entirely white, and at least at first glance, they appear extremely healthy: A tribute keeps perfect skin and teeth as well as muscular bodies until their very end. The one other thing that unites most of them is that they're either broken personalities, or they are really, really angry. Branding Rune of a Human Branded Tribute Children of original tributes usually grow up on the run from the dark powers. They rarely get away for long, for their evil masters can track them - and they have a purpose for these humans in mind. Sometimes, the parents have given in to servitude, and they raise their children as servants to their dark lords. Tributes that were sold off in the new world of Ashandri are often kept in the homes of their mortal masters or uncaring parents. Others are transported somewhere far away, and left in the wilderness to care for themselves. Branded Tributes are rarely accepted by other masters, which means they usually aren't warlocks, clerics or paladins. A higher power might choose to accept such a human without claiming their soul, or they might actually try to break the human free of the old bond. Such a confrontation of supernatural powers usually has a long-term impact not only on the human tribute, but on their companions as well. If you want to choose such a class for your character, weave an explanation for why you are accepted by your master into the story (or consult with your GM). Traits For a Branded Tribute human, the following Traits replace the original human’s Ability Score Increase trait. Age: Humans reach adulthood in their late teens and live less than a century. Alignment: Branded Tribute Humans often despise evil, simply because their own souls were sold against their will by oppressors. While rare, there are evil Branded Tributes, too. Like all humans, they can be of any alignment. Size: Humans vary widely in height and build, from barely 5 feet to well over 6 feet tall. Regardless of your position in that range, your size is Medium. Speed: Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Languages: You can speak, read, and write Common and one extra language of your choice. Humans typically learn the Languages of other peoples they deal with, including obscure dialects. They are fond of sprinkling their Speech with words borrowed from other tongues: Orc Curses, Elvish musical expressions, Dwarvish Military phrases, and so on. Ability Score Increase: Charisma+2, Strength+1 Suspicious: Your experiences have made you hypervigilant. When rolling for a Wisdom (Insight) or Wisdom (Perception) check, you roll an additional d4 and add the result to your Wisdom check. Fiery Backlash: When you take damage in battle, you can cast Hellish Rebuke as a first-level spell once with this trait. Your target has to roll for a Dexterity Saving Throw against a DC equal to 8 + your Proficiency modifier + your Charisma modifier. The target takes 2d10 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. You regain the ability to cast it after finishing a long rest. Charisma is your Spellcasting ability for this spell. Dark Life: You can summon a dark energy from your tribute symbol. You can cast False Life as a first-level spell with this ability. Once used, you need a long rest before you can use it again. Charisma is your Spellcasting ability for this spell. Dark Enchantment: Once you've reached 5th level, you can call upon the same force that grants you Dark Life to enchant non-magical weapons. You can cast Magic Weapon as a second level spell. You regain the ability to cast it after finishing a long rest. Charisma is your Spellcasting ability for this spell. Cling to Life: You know that, when you die, your soul will end up with whoever bought it. When you have failed two Death Saving Throws, your next Death Saving Throw is made with advantage. Once used, you need a long rest before you can use this ability again.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

