# Jinnborn

**description**: Native to the deepest deserts, the jinnborn claim they were the first mortals to walk the world. They say in the beginning, all the world was a vast desert beneath a fiery sun; in those times, the jinnborn wandered where they willed and ruled over all they saw. They refer to themselves as the sab siraat, or “people of the path.” Descended from powerful elemental creatures called the Jinn (singular: jinni), the jinnborn manifest gifts through their lineage that help them survive their harsh home environment. Passionate people, the jinnborn seek wealth when they can, revel in revenge when they must, and cherish close companionship always. Outsiders label them as capricious or even savage, never fully understanding the jinnborn’s true nature. Touch of the Jinn Jinnborn are somewhat shorter than humans, rarely growing taller than 6 feet. Their shorter stature gives them a stocky build, and their frames are muscular and hardy—adults can easily weigh in excess of 170 pounds. Jinnborn skin tone comes in a wide range of colors, from sky blue to light violet and from golden to brick red. Secondary features such as nub horns, pointed teeth, or elemental gleams flickering deep within their eyes all mark the otherworldly heritage of the jinnborn. Nearly all jinnborn sport pointed ears, and they decorate themselves with jewelry of precious metals and gemstones. They prefer brightly colored, loose and flowing clothing, appropriate to the burning days and chilly nights. Paths to Plenty The core philosophy that drives jinnborn, regardless of their station, is siraati—a mystical path that jinnborn believe is their spiritual and cultural guide. Intrinsic to being sab siraat is the belief that the jinn who created the tribes set them on a path to the Hidden World, a land of plenty and fulfilled desire, free of the harsh desert realities, and unspoiled by the plots and greed of the pathless. Sab siraat are divided along elemental lines, like the jinn themselves, and each tribe adheres to a single path. Although every jinnborn tribe holds these paths sacred, no two agree on the specifics. Some common elements persist between siraati of different tribes, however, based on the elemental nature of the paths themselves. Air sab siraat are proud and aloof. Fire sab siraat are passionate and vicious. Water sab siraat are carefree but mercurial, and earth sab siraat are stoic and driven. Even with these tendencies, tribes exhibit great diversity in customs, laws, stories, and mannerisms. Some tribes boast multiple patron jinn and represent multiple forms of the siraati. Other tribes absorb members through conquest or marriage, giving them access to more than one elemental path. Once a jinnborn sets his or her mind upon a siraati, however, only the patron jinni’s intervention can change it. Life on the Path Tribes of jinnborn take the concept of mystical paths seriously, and they follow a nomadic lifestyle in accordance with those paths. Whether herding camels, following the supply of fresh water from oasis to river, or seeking wealth through trade, literal and philosophical paths govern all. The tribes follow the physical paths their elders set down, knowing these safe routes lead them around dangerous sands and past beguiling mirages to safety and sustenance. Other jinnborn tribes make their way as mercenaries or even turn to banditry. This is their path to the Hidden World. Outsiders frequently misread the jinnborn, though that is not entirely their fault. The jinnborn keep their word meticulously between themselves, but when dealing with the pathless outsiders, the line between what is said and what is meant blurs. They rarely lie outright, but they speak in terms that allow them to twist their meaning. Jinnborn who leave the desert can lose their connection to their siraati and their patron jinn. The longer they dwell away from the desert, the more they feel this separation approaching. If they remain away from the desert long enough, they become vulnerable to the predation of those opposed to their patron jinn or siraati, and their tribe or other jinnborn might shun them, feeling the absence within them. Patron Jinn Jinn share many traits with genies—the best-known of the powerful elementals—but they are more powerful still. Immortal beings older than recorded history, jinn contend with the sultans and emirs of the genie courts. Although jinnborn tribes often worship the jinn, they are not gods and grant no divine spells through belief alone. However, jinnborn warlocks nearly always choose their tribe’s patron jinni as their Otherworldly Patron, receiving the benefits granted by a Genie Lord patron (see Midgard Heroes Handbook or Deep Magic ). Jinnborn rarely worship any gods, for to do so strays from the path. Jinn are tied to one of the four elements and dwell on the corresponding elemental plane. They eschew the Material Plane unless dueling a rival on neutral ground or visiting their patron tribes. So ancient are the jinn that most no longer use their names. They do have formal names, and these names have been kept safe by the patron’s tribes. Jinnborn keep the name of the patron a close secret, and it is a deadly insult for a jinnborn to speak the name of another tribe’s patron. Jinnborn Names Jinnborn names borrow words from the elemental tongues and tend to contain few syllables. Male Names: Artis, Bel’ar, Djal, Fershul, Grunz, Jorlat, Masad, Parfal, Ri’un, Yvris Female Names: Alana, Bea’l, Cassal, Evelys, Falma, Himyra, Kayala, Nuli, Oshaa, Somnya Jinnborn Traits Your jinnborn character has certain characteristics in common with other jinnborn. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2. Age. Jinnborn reach maturity at age 16 and can live to be over 150. Alignment. There is no single alignment among the jinnborn that typifies them all. Size. Jinnborn tend to be slightly shorter than humans, with stout, well-muscled builds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. Thanks to your jinn blood, you can see in dim light within 60 feet as though it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Desert Dependent. At least once each year, you must spend 8 hours meditating in a desert or other warm, arid environment to reaffirm your siraati and your connection to your tribe’s patron jinn. If you refuse or are unable to meditate in this way, you lose sight of your siraati and your patron jinn, and you become vulnerable to a type of damage opposed to your siraati: bludgeoning (air), thunder (earth), cold (fire), or lightning (water). You must spend 48 hours meditating in a desert or other warm, arid environment to regain your lost connection, ending the damage vulnerability caused by the loss. Negotiator. You have proficiency in the Persuasion skill. Siraati. All jinnborn have an affinity for mystic paths, depending on the jinn patron of their tribe. Choose one of the following siraati: air, earth, fire, or water. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and one of the four elemental languages (Auran, Aquan, Ignan, or Terran). The elemental language must conform to your siraati. Subrace. Jinnborn are divided into subraces depending on the innate touch of the jinn. Choose one of the following subraces. Jinnborn Feats The feats presented here reflect special talents jinnborn characters may gain due to their unique origins. Even if the optional rules for feats are in use in your campaign, check with your GM before adding any of these options to your character. Jinnborn of the Medina Truly Favored Warrior of the Hidden World Flowery Phrases of the Jinn The following phrases are common sayings among the jinnborn of the Dominion and the Crescent Desert: Dawn is when we gather. At dawn, the great flame warms air, earth, and water alike. A lamp cannot burn good intentions. Without a coin for oil, darkness prevails. Where there is smoke, there is fire. The question is, what does the fire want? Gilding their shackles does not dampen your slave’s hate. The only permanent cure for idiocy is death. Sweet words most often conceal bitter intent. The most dangerous hawk is the one who hides his talons. In the absence of light, every coin is gold. The sharpest blade cuts nothing in its sheath. A wise man rarely thinks of himself as such. Spilt water returns not to the well. You may spend a year crying or a year laughing. The year passes regardless.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Southlands Player's Guide

