# Keenok

**description**: Keenoks are tall and muscular humanoids with teal or purple skin and tentacle-like appendages flowing from their scalps. They are known for their stoic nature and for preferring deeds over dialogue. Keenoks mature faster than humans and reach adulthood around age 15. They live up to 150 years. Adventurous and bold by nature, keenoks have evolved several traits that help them survive anywhere in the wide cosmos. While resting, keenoks can adapt their physical and mental defenses to protect them against typical cosmic hazards. Additionally, by focusing intently, they can use their tentacle-like hair to sense their surroundings – and even peer beyond the realm of the physical. A Scattered People It is rumored that the keenoks' origin can be traced back to an ancient civilization that stretched far across the Universe. The cause of this old civilization's downfall is lost to history – and few keenoks are aware of, nor particularly care for, their species' past glory. Some keenoks have settled into life in the humanoid societies on the various worlds they now call home, while others form distinct societies in the ashes of the remote outposts of their ancient empire. These keenoks tend to embrace a simple existence rich in tradition, camaraderie, and community. Keenok Traits Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 6–8 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet As a keenok, you have these special traits: Cosmic Resistance. When you finish a Long Rest, choose one type of damage from Force, Psychic, or Radiant. You have Resistance to damage of that type until you choose a new damage type using this trait. Spirit Sight. As an Action, you gain Blindsight and can see into the Ethereal Plane, both out to a radius of 30 feet. You are Blinded beyond this radius. This effect ends if you move, take any other action, or become Incapacitated. Unyielding Inspiration. You have adapted to be a leader of others or a force unto yourself. You gain your choice of one of the traits below and can change which trait you choose whenever your character level increases. Natural Leader. When another creature within 30 feet of you makes a D20 Test, you can use a Reaction to grant it Advantage on the D20 Test. You can use this trait a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. Unstoppable Force. When you fail a D20 Test, you can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the result. If this causes the roll to succeed, you must finish a Short Rest before you can use this trait again. The die increases at character levels 5 (d6), 11 (d8), and 17 (d10).

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 34474

**publisher**: Eventyr Games

**book**: Mareesha's Cosmic Curiosities

