# Kesh

**description**: “All I can say is that they’re the dictionary definition of persistence. Imagine spending your life wandering the stars hoping to be that lucky lottery winner that finds the home that once was. And if you don’t, it gets passed down to your next generation. Even with all that, they’re friendlier than the lizards and a lot less stuffy than the glowy folk in the suits. If you haven’t done one of those memory-melds with a kesh, make sure you try it at least once. You’ll be in for a treat, for sure. ” — Sanrod Trenton, human technician Before all else, the kesh are a people bred for exploration. No longer having a world to call home, they have spent centuries living either within the realms of other peoples, or aboard massive starships built to traverse new regions within the infinite expanse. Simply Complex Upon first meeting a kesh, it can sometimes be difficult to gauge their expressions. Over time, however, certain minute facial features and gestures become easily recognizable. The same cannot be said for other kesh, who recognize these slight inflections instantly. This is partly due to their native language, which includes a number of facial expressions in combination with their speech. Kesh are slightly shorter than an average human, though their builds can vary. They have no hair on their bodies at all. Their skin appears extremely smooth, but has a slight rubbery texture when touched. Their skintones range between shades of pale greens and browns. All kesh have pitch black eyes that cast a shadowy reflection when gazed into. Gone but Not Forgotten In the earliest recorded history of the kesh, legend speaks of a homeworld that was a beacon of light and prosperity within the galaxy. However, through their arrogance, the kesh’s world was swallowed by a great darkness from which they never truly recovered. The survivors of this ancient people abandoned their home to become wanderers among the stars, and in following centuries lost all knowledge of its location. Through this lesson of history, the kesh have come to follow a path of exploration and enlightenment. They do this hoping that one day they will rediscover their lost homeworld, and return there not only as a better people, but as an evolved society worthy of the glory of their former home. A Life of Discovery There is no greater purpose amongst the kesh than to gain enlightenment from other societies while sharing their learned experience with each other. The elders among the kesh call this “The Great Renewal.” Kesh have the ability to “share” their experiences with other kesh though a ritual of minor telepathy when they are in close range. This act must be mutually accepted between all parties, and is a tool that helps each of their species become more aware of the universe around them. Though even the oldest of their kind is unclear of what their people face once the kesh rediscover their lost home, they are certain that this time, they will be ready to overcome whatever still lies in wait. Kesh Names A kesh name has two different variants, depending on their social situation. Their birth name does not change. In situations where they are in a formal setting or when meeting strangers, they use their family’s crew designation as their surname, preceded by the word “fel”, meaning “part of” in their native language. In more personable or informal situations, a kesh can reveal their family name. Unless they are amongst allies, close associates, and friends, revealing a family name is considered disrespectful to their crew. Male Names: Aldon, Balo, Calet, Druso, Eruka, Finli, Gento, Karul, Lysin, Mirul, Misrym, Neri, Remis, Sakol, Tesso Female Names: Adrine, Atalya, Calli, Dalil, Elona, Fayliah, Ilethi, Ladisia, Mereia, Nisuri, Oree, Piriele, Riel, Truna, Vanika Crew Names (preceded by “fel”): Astalir, Cojiva, Gaevo, Jojari, Medoran, Sherfin, Velark, Wotamo, Xuxor, Zehali Family Names: Gage, Hiyul, Kiet, Larik, Mosh, Noram, Nuel, Seon, Toski, Yarit Kesh Traits The kesh possess a number of advantages due to their adaptive nature passed down through generations. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity increases by 2. Age. Kesh take longer to reach what is considered “adulthood” to their species, ranging between 40 and 50 years. They are known to have a lifespan of close to 500 years, but there are rumors of a small group of kesh who have lived centuries longer. Alignment. Kesh are explorers first and foremost. Because they often deal with various species and cultures, they tend to be neutral in alignment with a leaning toward good. Size. Kesh average between 4.5 to 5.5 ft. in height and tend toward slim to slightly stocky builds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. With generations of adapting to various planetary climates as well as the vastness of space, kesh have the ability to see well in dim and dark places. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were in dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common, Keshian, and one other language of your choice. Expert Explorer. You are proficient in the Survival skill. Minor Alteration. You gain use of the alter appearance talent. You can use this talent once, after which you must complete a long rest before you can use it again. Even when using this feature, you are unable to change the natural black eye color that is native to all kesh. At 4th level, you gain an additional use of this feature and can extend the duration for one additional hour. This increases by one use and one additional hour again at 9th level and 14th level. You regain all uses of this feature when you complete a long rest. Memory Meld. You gain use of the shared vision power. You can use it once after which you must complete a long rest before it can be used again. Charisma is your channeling ability for this power when you use this feature. Subraces Noble Kesh Star Kesh

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

