# Kilnkin

**description**: I’d believed the rasapota, as the kilnkin call themselves, were only legends. As I traversed that secluded valley with its majestic river I discovered how wrong I was. Their civilization, long hidden, had flourished in the shadows of the mountains. —Darius Stryx, cartographer On the banks of a mystic river, in a region secluded from the outside world, there is a clay that can be shaped, fired, and filled with an alchemical concoction that transmutes these raw materials into new life. The people created in this way, the kilnkin, are deeply religious. Pottery, alchemy, and a cultural system that divides individuals into castes form the basis of their society. As a rule, kilnkin are calm and peaceful; but when the situation demands it, they are capable of great feats beyond the physical and mental limitations of most other humanoids. Forged in Fire The mystical and alchemical processes that allow kilnkin to gain sentience require specific dimensions: all kilnkin are exactly 5 feet tall and weigh 150 pounds upon creation. Their bodies are predominantly made of red, blue, or yellow clay. Their eyes burn with the ongoing alchemical fire that animates them, and their bodies are covered in indentations of runic patterns, within which flows metallic liquids. After the sentience of a kilnkin is catalyzed, they are free to modify their bodies as they wish. Kilnkin often create ornamental pottery to adorn themselves with and paint their bodies in bright colors. Kilnkin can also modify their body by incorporating clays and alchemical reagents other than those they were created with. These kilnkin exhibit a patchwork of colors or, more rarely, a blend of them. Mote & Anima The role of individual kilnkin in their society is based on the primary clay used in their creation, called their mote, and the primary alchemical agent involved in their animation, called their anima. Each kilnkin has a mote and an anima for a total of nine possible combinations. In the traditional kilnkin understanding of the world, an individual’s combination reveals their duty to kilnkin society, personality, temperament, and destiny. This emphasis on the significance of mote and anima adds to the kilnkin skepticism of other peoples, who are seen as inconsistent and unpredictable. Alchemical Adventurers Kilnkin rarely leave the safety and serenity of their enclave. In the past, meetings with the wider world worked out poorly for the philosophically minded kilnkin, causing them to become insular and distrustful of other peoples. This history means that kilnkin who become adventurers are often outsiders or outcasts among their own people. More rarely, a kilnkin elder will empower a younger kilnkin to leave the community to strike out into the world for resources, intelligence gathering, or some other mission. Kilnkin that leave the safety of their people for any reason must perform a special purification ritual before they are allowed to return to their own kind. Kilnkin Names Kilnkin are not given names in their youth and instead are referred to as “child” with whatever descriptors are necessary to differentiate them from other young kilnkin. Once they reach maturity, kilnkin name themselves. Adult Names: Arsixsixy, Bezalel, Chappie, Daimajin, Galatea, Kaddish, Prometheus, Pulgasari, Saint Kilnkin Traits All kilnkin share the following traits. Ability Score Increase. Kilnkin are a diverse people with natural strength and talents dictated by their mote and anima. One ability score of your choice that is increased by your mote or anima subrace increases by an additional 1. Age. Kilnkin reach maturity quicker than many other races, reaching full maturity at the age of 5. The oldest kilnkin rarely live beyond 100 years. Alignment. A traditional people, most Kilnkin are lawful. They tend towards good or neutral. Size. What variation exists between the kilnkin is entirely dependent on their dress, behavior, and body modifications. The alchemical process that animates them requires all kilnkin to stand exactly 5 feet tall and weigh 150 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your basic walking speed is 30. Alchemical Resilience. Your alchemical physiology renders you exceptionally hardy to many dangers. You have resistance against poison damage and have advantage on saving throws against poison. Additionally, you are immune to disease. Exceed Mortal Limits. As a bonus action on your turn, you can cause the alchemical processes animating you to grant you the ability to exceed mortal limitations. For the next minute, you ignore the effects of any exhaustion levels you have. At the end of this minute, you gain a level of exhaustion. Once you use this trait, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Prog enitor’s Expertise. You have proficiency with alchemist’s supplies and potter’s tools. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses either proficiency. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Primordial. Subraces. Each kilnkin is an intersection between their primary material components, represented by their mote subrace, and those of their primary animating alchemical substance, represented by their anima subrace. Choose one mote subrace and one anima subrace. Mote of Might Mote of Finesse Mote of Vigor Anima of Reason Anima of Acuity Anima of Charm

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 20542

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

