# Lemurian

**description**: “The memory of the Lemurian race was not as yet fully evolved, and they were without language, although they could communicate with each other by a species of thought transference. Lemurian man had ‘imbibed the physical and chemical forces inherent in lifeless things,’ and had but to look at objects to judge their weight-bearing capacity. Thus he could build and erect without recourse to the arts of engineering, and could lift enormous weights by the exercise of will-power alone. Will-power, was, indeed, the particular quality in which the Lemurians were transcendent.” —Lewis Spence, The Problem of Lemuria: The Sunken Continent of the Pacific Once upon a time, Lemuria was the envy of all its neighbors. With advanced theories of magic and the resources to turn those sophisticated concepts into practical applications, the people of Lemuria were free from the mundane business of making a living to pursue personal interests and relationships. Raiders came to their shores and crashed uselessly against the walls of their great cities, eager to access the network of interconnected magical items that ensured Lemuria’s ongoing prosperity. After hundreds of years of increasing isolation, the people of Lemuria grew weary of the world and decided to leave it. A Whiter Shade of Pale There are two physical features that set lemurians apart from many of the other races in the worlds of D&D: their skin is devoid of pigment and they have a third eye above the center of their brow. Lemurian hair is silver, gray, or white. Their eyes can be nearly any color. In lemurian culture there is a belief that eye color says a lot about one’s personality similar to the astrology practiced by other races. Perhaps owing to the relative scarcity of food stuffs in the ethereal realm, lemurians have slight builds. They stand between 4 feet and 5 feet tall and weigh 65 to 85 pounds. Lemurians who pass their adolescence in the material realm stand a bit taller and broader than those raised in the ethereal. Intangible Exodus When lemurians left the Material Plane, they took the land they lived on with them. The ritual they performed shifted their entire continent into the Border Ethereal. For a time they continued to travel between their new home and their old. When they desired greater isolation they worked new rituals to push their home into the Deep Ethereal. The story of Lemuria ends there. Surviving lemurian records state that as their people continued to advance in arcane lore and its practical uses they began to fade out of existence. This phenomena became known as “Ascension” and the majority of lemurians pursued it until only a fraction of the people remained that once made up the great civilization. Some still haunt the forgotten ruins of Lemuria but others have wandered back into the Border Ethereal or even crossed over into the Material Plane. Haunting the Border Since the fall of Lemuria, lemurians have formed tribes and migrated back from the Deep Ethereal to the Border Ethereal. Each tribe has developed its own customs to honor their ancestors and placate the odd denizens of the Ethereal Plane. Lemurian tribes treasure artifacts from Lemuria and hold them with great reverence. At times, conflicts over the possession of these artifacts escalates into war between lemurian tribes. Much of what lemurians know about the Material Plane comes from what they have observed by looking through the border or have talked about with ghosts or other creatures who can pass between the planes easily. Lemurians are curious, observant, and can be obsessive about their interests and uncovering secrets. Lemurians prefer to watch situations unfold from a distance and only get involved once they feel confident they have all the information they need to make an informed decision or take decisive action. Out of the Ethereal Lemurians share some of the reasons members of other races become adventurers and are also powerfully motivated by curiosity. Those who have only recently made their way to the Material Plane are eager to see as much of this vibrant world as they can. Lemurians who’ve been in the Material Plane for some time might be interested in finding ancient artifacts that connect them to the history of Lemuria and its people. Lemurian Names In Lemuria it was common practice to name newborns after mystic principles and theories that were relevant to the parents’ hopes for the child. Although few lemurians know the full significance of these words today, by tradition this naming convention has continued on. Lemurians use the name of their tribe as their surname with most tribes being named after the cities of Lemuria. Male Names: Ananke, Asha, Barbelo, Eveko, Gnostikos, Kensho, Kismet, Luminatio, Ma’at, Revelate, Wyrd Female Names: Abjarua, Barbelo, Laima, Moirai, Ousia, Orgone, Pleroma, Prajna, Punya, Samsara, Satori, Wuwei Tribe Names: Gondwana, Kerguelen, Laurasia, Pannotia, Rodinia, Kenor, Nena, Vaalbara, Zeaia Lemurian Traits Your lemurian character has the following racial traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 1, and your Intelligence score increases by 2. Age. Lemurians reach maturity slower than humans, not reaching adulthood until the age of 30. If they remain in the Ethereal Plane they live to nearly 300 years old but lemurians who venture out of the Border Ethereal into the Material Plane typically do not live longer than 200 years. Alignment. Lemurians are reserved by nature and rarely interfere in the struggles of others. Most lemurians are lawful neutral or neutral. Size. Lemurians are slightly shorter and significantly slighter than humans. They stand between 4 and 5 feet tall and weigh between 65 to 85 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30. Ethereal Step. As a bonus action, you become partially ethereal until the start of your next turn. While partially ethereal, you have resistance to nonmagical damage, you have a flying speed equal to your base walking speed, and you can move through occupied spaces. If you end your turn in an occupied space, you are shunted to the nearest unoccupied space and take force damage equal to twice the number of feet you are moved. Once you use this trait, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Third Eye. You have a third eye above the middle of your brow. You have advantage on saving throws against being blinded. Vision Beyond Sight. You can take an action on your turn to open your third eye to vision beyond sight for one minute. While your third eye is open, you see invisible creatures and objects as if they were visible, and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. You are immune to being blinded while this ability is in use. If you were blinded before engaging this ability, that condition ends immediately. Once you use this trait, you must finish a long rest until you can use it again. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common. When lemurians left the Material Plane hundreds or thousands of years ago, an earlier form of Common was spoken. Today lemurians continue to use many of the words, phrases, and linguistic rules of that older version of the language which sounds distinctly odd to those who speak the Common of modernity.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

