# Malebranche

**description**: Malebranche are literally devils. Former subjects of Lucifuge, they proclaimed the Great Refusal and left Inferno to walk out in the open under the sun and stars again. With the end of their infernal service, they lost many of their previous supernatural powers and most of their inhuman traits, becoming almost-ordinary humans, barely marked by minor beast-like peculiarities and instincts. Even their memories from before they left the underworld and their knowledge of an eternity of damnation are like hazy dreams; the moment of their Great Refusal is a sort of rebirth into the earthly world, where they themselves choose the mortal form in which they will incarnate. “Thence we came forth to rebehold the stables." - Durante Alamozza, Malebranche, leaving Inferno - The first to rebel, centuries ago, was the legendary Diavolmanno, the “Great Human Devil”, who later found work as a circus attraction. Since then, several hundred among the damned have followed his example. The Great Beast looks with hatred upon the “twice-rebels” who turned against him… but let’s face it, the Great Beast tends to look at everyone like that, so who gives a damn? Fun Nicknames: jollygoods, goats, hornies, poor devils. Typical Names: Draghignazzo, Frosthoar, Uggelimutt, Wildehogge, Rubicante, Slovenlislobbe, Craniumsmasher, Giudittah. They often use nicknames and stage names. How Other Races See Them Although they have roamed the Kingdom for a while, malebranche are still regarded with great distrust because of their nature, appearance, and origin. After all, they are foreigners, they come from afar, their faces are ugly, and their ways bizarre, they’re often vulgar and foul-mouthed, and have no respect for local customs and beliefs: these are all things that don’t go down well with guards, bigots, and the hoi polloi. The latter do tend to have this reaction, even with people from neighboring villages, so who gives a damn. Strangely enough, priests, monks, and the faithful of the Calendar are not hostile toward malebranche, but rather consider them a worthy example of redemption. Their very existence and the fact that they brought about the Great Refusal proves on the one hand that Inferno exists and is a nasty place, and on the other that anyone can give it a wide berth if they follow the Creed and teachings of the Saints. Malebranche Traits Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 1, and your Charisma score increases by 2. Age. Malebranche "are born" again on earth on the day of their Great Refusal. No matter what appearance they used to have up to that moment, they incarnate in a body with a physiology very similar to humans, albeit they present bestial features, and generally in the form of adults. From that moment on, they age as a human or a gifted. Size. Malebranche are about the same size and build as humans. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. Thanks to your infernal heritage, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Brawl Feature: Hellbrawl. Trained in the darkest caves of the Malebolge, the malebranche have learned the unholy art of the Hellbrawl that has made them relentless and tireless fighters. You have advantage on all saving throws made during a brawl. Infernal Helltraits. Malebranche are different from each other and display particular traits called Helltraits due to their infernal heritage. Your malebranche character has two of the following Infernal Helltraits: Hellwings. You have small wings, too small to allow flight, but sufficient to glide. If you are able to use the wings while falling, you take no falling damage. Hellflames. When you use your Hellflames weapon, each creature in a 15-foot cone, or in a 5-foot wide, 30-footlong line, must make a Dexterity saving throw. The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus. A creature takes 2d6 damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. The damage increases to 3d6 at 6th level. After you use your Hellflames weapon, you can’t use it again until you complete a short or long rest. Hellfeet. You have sturdy and snappy goat legs with hooves. Your base walking speed increases to 40 feet. Hellvoice. You can cast the charm person spell once with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for this spell. Hellclaws. Your hands have grown mighty claws. You have a climbing speed of 20 feet. In addition, your claws are natural weapons, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, you deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. Hellears. Pointed and feral ears give you incredible hearing, capable of catching even the cries of the most distant damned. You gain proficiency in the Perception skill and you add double your proficiency bonus to any Perception check that requires hearing.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Acheron Games

**book**: Brancalonia - Core Rulebook Compendium

