# Matokai

**description**: “These beasts are an amalgam of organic matter and the primordial essence that makes up our universe. Very few understand their antiquated tribal customs and myth-laden practices. Their only known lineage hails from the enigmatic nature of the bahtera. Though honor-bound by their own internal code, they are also highly reclusive, which makes me wonder how deep the internal struggles lie between their peoples. ” — Valara Drake, promethean commander For over a thousand years, the major races of the Silrayne Arc have explored the primordial energies that form the universe and the delicate balance that binds them together as a whole. Bahtera, hybrid beasts formed from matter and energy, walk between these two cosmic realities and evolve by adapting the matter of other species into their own bodies. During one such period of evolution, a new species was born, an offshoot carrying the exotic traits of their mercurial ancestors. This race of creatures became known as the matokai. Children of the Elements Matokai are primarily a race of humanoid lizards, but they also inherit a dual nature, one that binds them to a particular source of primordial energy. They have distinct builds, skin textures, and colors that define their lineage. Their connection to these energies can often manifest in the form of innate talents or resistances depending on their sub-type. Physically, the matokai vary greatly in height, ranging anywhere from 5 feet to almost 7 feet. They have elongated snouts with sharp fangs. The majority of their bodies are covered in fine scales that vary in color between shades of blue, gold, red, or white. Their hands and feet bear sharp claws, with three fingers and a thumb on each hand. They possess no hair, but can have different variations of fins or small spikes that run from the tops of their heads down over their spine. While the matokai are descended from the bahtera, they are very far removed from these creatures, who view the matokai to be abominations and a misstep in the evolutionary process. While they don’t bear immediate hostilities, the bahtera and matokai have extremely strained relations, with the only thing shared in common being their form of communication. Duty and Honor Matokai society is heavily focused on position and steeped in codes of honor and tradition. They believe themselves to be directly linked to spirits that reside within the energies of the galaxy, guiding all things toward an eventual destiny. Their homeworld, Bas Drasku, is overseen by a number of provincial governments and presided over by five monarchs—an imperial ruler and one head representative for each matokai sub-type. Each of these has a hierarchy of military and clan leaders that hold rank based on their popularity and respect of the people. Honor, self-worth, and loyalty to one’s clan all play an important part in the daily lives of the matokai and this can seen in different forms in those who venture off to other worlds. Matokai who are found in different cultures still hold their own strict code of ethics and a desire for self-improvement. Though this attitude can provide positive reinforcement, it can sometimes goad them into taking unnecessary risks to avoid the shame of failure or embarrassment. Reach of the People The matokai have established colonies throughout most of the Silrayne Arc. It is rare to travel into a major star system and not find a space station or planetary settlement built by the matokai. The reasoning behind this galactic expansion is two-fold. They wish to be represented in all matters that may involve their people, as well as establish close relations with each of their neighboring allies. Matokai Names A matokai has a given name and a clan name. When introducing themselves, their clan name is presented first. After their lineage has been established, it is common for others to simply use the matokai’s given name on its own whenever referring to them. Male Names: Ajarax, Balamor, Craxar, Druval, Eltor, Getrin, Heshrak, Krel, Margon, Nathkar, Prakund, Rhortak, Strazku, Toruun, Velkyth Female Names: Akuske, Biridu, Dilar, Fareh, Havoshi, Johralu, Kaiann, Kohra, Mishiki, Nalka, Rageri, Sursuke, Tagasa, Uronka, Vatale Clan Names: Bargatul, Chataka, Girolei, Krathta, Linayako, Nekrimat, Qugiri, Sylori, Tojoru, Wamarei Matokai Traits Your matokai character has certain traits in common with all other matokai. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution increases by 2. Age. Matokai age and mature at the same rate as humans. They lifespans are slightly longer, living to around 150. Alignment. Matokai tend to be lawful or neutral, but their personal code of ethics can vary greatly between selfishness and selflessness. Though they usually lean toward good, evil matokai are far from uncommon. Size. A matokai’s height can vary greatly, being anywhere between 5 feet to a little over 7 feet tall. All matokai, regardless of height, are a little bulkier in build than most humanoids. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common, Matokai, and Bahtera. Bahtera is a combination of gestures and deep, often guttural sounds. Claws. Your claws are a natural weapon, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with it, you deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. Subraces. Each matokai comes from one of four different subraces, known to them as sub-types. Subraces Firetail Skytalon Stonefang Waveclaw

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

