# Mazoku

**description**: Judging the souls of the dead is a massive undertaking, even for a Fortune such as the Overlord of Judgment. To aid him in his duty, the Fortune of Death maintains a large staff, including servants, judges, scribes, guards, bailiffs, and all manner of administrators. Most of the mazoku servants and administrators hope to earn a better reincarnation by serving the Fortune of Death loyally, though there are some who revel in holding such power over others. Mazoku Physiology Mazoku are dreadful beings that seem to tower over others in their presence, even if they happen to be physically shorter. In their true form, most are humanoid in shape, and they range in size from a few feet tall to well over ten feet. Many have brilliant blue or red skin, fangs, claws, and terrifying eyes. Each mazoku is relatively unique. When traveling in the Mortal Realm, however, mazoku are required by various celestial ordnances to take on mortal guise, meaning that their body is effectively human. They usually maintain one or more of their startling features in this form such as especially fearsome eyes, unusually sharp teeth, imposing eyebrows, or hair that tends to settle into a hornlike pattern. They can temporarily revert to their true form, but doing so takes a toll on their mortal shell. Perhaps more importantly, revealing themselves in front of mortals requires tremendous amounts of paperwork upon their return to the afterlife, so most mazoku try to avoid it at all costs. Cosmic Bureaucrats Mazoku are beings whose cosmic role is to mete out judgment and punishment to mortal souls. They inhabit the lower realms of the afterlife: the Realm of Waiting, the Realm of Hunger, the Realm of Slaughter, and parts of the deepest hell, the Realm of Torment, that have not been overrun by corrupted oni. Mazoku rarely come to the Mortal Realm, but when they do, it is usually in search of souls that have proved especially tricky to dislodge—those that even the loyal priests of the Fortune of Death have been unable to cast into the afterlife. Some mazoku view such assignments to the Mortal Realm as a welcome break, while others find it an insufferable punishment. Mazoku Traits As a mazoku, you benefit from the following: Ability Score Increase . Choose one ability score to increase by 2, and another to increase by 1. Age . Age has little meaning in the afterlife, but most mazoku are hundreds or thousands of years old. Size . Your mortal guise is of Medium size. Your true form is also of Medium size unless you select a Demonic True Form feature that changes it. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision . Mazoku need to be able to see even amidst the dark fires of the Realm of Torment, and so their eyesight is especially sharp in darkness. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Demonic True Form . You can transform into your terrifying true form by spending a bonus action. When you are in your demonic form, you gain several beneficial features (see Demonic True Form Features ) and your creature type is fiend instead of humanoid. After a number of rounds equal to your proficiency bonus, you transform back. After you transform back, you cannot use this feature again until you complete a long rest. In any afterlife realm, you can transform to and from your true form at any time by spending a bonus action, and there is no limitation on how long you can stay in that form. Queue of the Dead . You are not alive, so you cannot die in the traditional sense. However, if you are killed (in any of the usual manners a PC could be), you vanish back to the Realm of Waiting, leaving only your items behind. There, you must wait until you get another assignment to visit the Mortal Realm (which can also take hundreds of years), and fill out any paperwork you incurred while in the Mortal Realm (which can take even longer). Barring exceptional circumstances, being killed removes you from the campaign just as it would any other PC. Language . See Backgrounds . Demonic True Form Features Select three different features from the list below. You benefit from these features only when you are in your demonic form. You cannot select a single feature more than once. Inured to an Element . When you select this feature, choose one of the following damage types: acid, bludgeoning, cold, fire, force, lightning, or thunder. You have resistance to the chosen damage type. Natural Weapons . You have horns, claws, a tail, or fangs that are capable of rending flesh as easily as a sword. When you select this feature, choose bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage. Your unarmed strike profile uses a d8, deals the chosen damage type, and counts as magical for the purposes of overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage. Inverted Weight . The world pulls on you differently, allowing you to leap great distances and walk on walls and even ceilings. Triple your jump distance. You can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings while leaving your hands free. You gain a climbing speed equal to your walking speed. Shroud of Souls . You are surrounded by buzzing insects, wailing spirits, or screeching bats. You have half cover even when standing in open ground, three-quarters cover when you would normally have half cover, and total cover when you would normally have three-quarters cover. Spiritual Force . You can invoke your authority over spirits of the dead, wielding their power as your own. When you transform into your demonic form, you immediately gain favor equal to your proficiency bonus. You can perform each of the following invocations once: commune with the spirits , divine the omens , threshold barrier . You cannot perform these invocations again this way until you complete a long rest. When you return to your mortal form, any unspent favor you gained this way is lost. Strange Physiology . You are much larger or smaller than your mortal form, and gain certain benefit from this shift in size. When you select this feature, choose Small or Large. You are the chosen size. If you choose Small, you gain a fly (hover) speed of 20 feet. If you choose Large, you have advantage on Strength checks and saving throws. Swiftness of Death . In a blistering instant, you bear down upon your foe. When you transform into your demonic form, roll 1d8 and add your proficiency bonus. Starting the next round, your initiative value for the encounter is increased by this amount. When you return to your mortal form, your initiative returns to its original value. Terrifying Visage . Your countenance is extremely startling, especially to those who defy the Celestial Order. The first time each creature within 10 feet sees you in your demonic form each encounter, it must make a Wisdom saving throw with DC equal to 10 plus your proficiency bonus. On failure, it becomes frightened of you. Undead creatures have disadvantage on this saving throw, and must make it even if they have immunity to being frightened. Thick Hide . You are covered in scales, tough fur, or scarred hide. You gain resistance to slashing and piercing damage from nonmagical sources. Tireless Certainty . Your arrival is as certain as death, taxes, or paperwork. You do not suffer the negative effects of exhaustion and have advantage on Constitution checks and saving throws. Additionally, when you transform into your demonic form, you immediately gain temporary hit points equal to 2d6 plus your proficiency bonus.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

