# Medusa (Thylean)

**description**: Medusa are humanoids that have made a bargain with dark powers to achieve beauty, eternal youth, great wealth, or some other mortal desire. As a consequence, their hair has been replaced with snakes, and their eyes have the power to petrify the unwary. They are despised and shunned by all other mortal races, and they must be careful to hide their identity when traveling in the civilized places of the world. Legend of the Medusa Thousands of years ago, a woman came to Thylea seeking her fortune. When the creatures of that land asked her from whence she came, she would only say, “I am from the land of the Gorgons.” In those days, Thylea was rich in natural beauty but poor in wealth. But the woman would not be deterred. First, the woman searched the steppes and mountains, and she came to the centaurs, asking, “Where may I find gems and jewels to rival the stars?” The centaurs offered her a shank of lamb and said, “Why seek gems and jewels when the stars are free to everyone?” Disappointed, she cast away the food and left the centaurs to their star-gazing. Then the woman searched the forests, and she came to the satyrs, asking, “Where may I find rivers of gold and silver that flow like fountains?” The satyrs offered her a goblet of wine and said, “Gold and silver make a very poor feast. Wouldn’t you rather join us for a song and a drink?” Disappointed again, the woman cast away the goblet and left the satyrs to their revelry. Now, the woman wandered high and low, seeking her fortune to no avail, and finally she came upon three women weaving at a loom. She said, “I wish for riches beyond the imagination of all the creatures that haunt this accursed land.” The three women, who were the Fates, warned her. “Is this truly what you desire? You may have it, but the price will be high.” And the woman answered, “When I am rich, I shall have no trouble paying any price.” And the Fates said, “So be it.” The woman’s eyes suddenly gleamed like golden coins, and wherever she turned her gaze, creatures were turned to stone. “So that none may rob you of your treasure,” said the Fates. The woman’s hair grew long and sinuous, slithering and scaled like snakes. “So that always you will have the company of hearts as cold as your own.” And finally, the woman’s hands were filled with gems and coins that were beautiful beyond the reckoning of stars or songs. Her name was Medusa, and she was the namesake of her curse, which afflicts many such mortals with more ambition than sense. Cursed by Dark Powers Medusae have typically made bargains with some sort of fiend or fiendish power, but in some cases, they are oathbreakers who have displeased the gods or the Fates. Either way, they have been afflicted with the curse of the medusa as punishment, and recovery from the curse is not possible without the use of powerful magic. In some cases, even the greater restoration spell may not be enough to break the curse. But in many other cases, the medusa simply embraces the curse as part of her identity. Children born to medusae are also affected by the curse. Ophidian Schemers Medusae are known to spend much of their time plotting against those who rival them in wealth, power, or beauty. Some medusae name their snakes and speak to them as if they were speaking to cherished pets or loved ones. Others are ashamed of their curse and seek to break it. Medusae must train themselves to never gaze into a mirror or stare at their reflection, for in an ironic twist of fate, they are vulnerable to their own petrifying gaze. Medusa Traits Medusae have the following traits. Ability Score Increase . Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Intelligence score increases by 1. Age . Medusae are not born—they are made. When a humanoid is afflicted by the curse of the medusa, they gradually transform into a snake-haired monstrosity. Once transformed, they may live for a thousand years, but most are hunted down and killed long before then. Alignment . Civilized medusae tend toward neutral or lawful evil alignments, because they must find ways to survive on the fringes of society. They must be careful to cooperate with others who will suffer the company of one who is cursed by the gods. Medusae who give into their anger eventually lose control of themselves and become true monsters. Size . Medusae are the same size and build as humans. Your size is Medium. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and one language of your choice. Darkvision . Your eyes are adapted to dark places, giving you darkvision out to 60 ft. Cursed . You are afflicted by the curse of the medusa, but your transformation is already complete. Your curse can only be ended with the wish spell. If your curse ends, then your race changes to whichever race you were before you became cursed (usually a human). Snake Hair . You can attack with your snake hair. This is a melee weapon attack with an attack bonus equal to your proficiency modifier + your Dexterity modifier. It does 1d6 piercing damage on a hit, and your target must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or else they are poisoned until the beginning of your next turn. Snake Blood . You have advantage on saving throws against spells and abilities that inflict the poisoned condition. Petrifying Gaze . Starting at 5th level, you can use your action to force a creature within 30 feet that can see your eyes to make a DC 8 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature is paralyzed until the end of its next turn. On your turn, you can use your bonus action to force the same creature to repeat this saving throw with disadvantage. Each time it fails, it is paralyzed again until the end of its next turn. When a creature is paralyzed in this way for the third time in a span of 10 minutes, it is instantly petrified. Starting at 10th level, the DC for this saving throw increases to 10. At 15th level, the DC increases to 12. At 20th level, the DC increases to 14.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

