# Merfolk

**description**: Merfolk are aquatic humanoids with the upper body of a human and the lower body of a fish. They are common throughout the oceans of the Forgotten Realms, and their settlements are as varied in colour, culture and outlook as the human races of the surface. Most merfolk communities are semi-nomadic, as the aquatic folk lack the skills to forge metal or carve stone. Instead, their settlements are founded in undersea caverns, coral mazes, and sunken cities. Many merfolk communities survive by trading with other undersea communities, such as tritons and sea elves. Because craft and trade is part of almost all merfolk cultures, these folk are renowned for their ability to barter with the best merchants of the realms. Merfolk Names Merfolk names are not dissimilar to human names in sound and flow, though sometimes contain more vowel sounds to make them easier to pronounce beneath the waves. Merfolk family names are passed down either the matriarchal or patriarchal line, depending on the culture. Male Names: Elliros, Berriamo, Lharo, Pahua, Uthario Female Names: Antinua, Elhara, Nissailin, Seraphima Family Names: Greatwave, Pearlswell, Redcoral, Reefsilver, Southsea Merfolk Traits Your merfolk character has the following racial traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Charisma score increases by 1. Age. Merfolk mature at the same rate as humans and have lifespans similar in length to theirs. Alignment. Merfolk society holds individual freedom very highly, with a weak hierarchical structure. As such, they tend toward neutral alignments. Size. Merfolk are around six feet tall including their tails, and weight between 200 and 250 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 10 feet, and you have s swimming speed of 30 feet. Amphibious. You can breathe air and water. Deep Sea Survivors. You’re naturally gifted in survival techniques, especially underwater. You gain proficiency in the Perception and Survival skills, and ignore any drawbacks caused by an underwater environment. Mercantile Culture. Merfolk culture is frequently based around trading with surface dwellers. Because of this, merfolk gain a knack for trade. You add your proficiency to checks made to bargain and communicate with merchants and traders. Underwater Weapons Training. You gain proficiency with spears, javelins and tridents. Ranged attacks with these weapons don’t automatically miss a target beyond their normal range while underwater. Languages. You can speak, read and write Common and Aquan.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

