# Midbari Wardling

**description**: “I spent years navigating the desert by following the stars, but I could never reach them. It was then that I knew adventure was calling, and I instead had to follow my heart.” - Ul’pit Viperstrike of the Sandstone Clan, Midbari artisan Ne’Oor’s southern regions include many areas of desert and dry steppe, including the famous dunes of Dryloch. Despite the desert’s inhospitable environment, the Midbari people thrive here, mainly as nomads who travel in caravans in search of places with water and food. There are some Midbari tribes, however, who find or create oases, where they raise families in a village setting, living in yurts and camps built from found wood and animal skins, skillfully sewn together to create barriers against the sun and any predators. The Midbari face many natural threats: sandstorms, lack of water sources, and desert predators including scorpions, sandwyrms, and even dragons. However, through generations of desert living, they have a natural resilience to extreme heat. While there are Midbari of all skin colors and types, bronze skin and either sun-kissed or darker hair is most typical. Their eyes are large and set more closely than an average human’s eyes, giving the Midbari a genetic ability to see in extremely dim lighting and for farther distances. Their clothing is loose and light, both in material and color, adding layers at night when the desert sun fades and colder temperatures creep in. Headwear and wraps are worn to protect against the sun. Combined with their tribal clothing and veils worn to protect themselves from the sand, the Midbari are naturally able to withstand the hot temperatures in which they live quite well. Common Midbari foods include curds and other fermented milk products, dates, dried teas made from desert flowers, and grains, which they make into flatbreads cooked on hot stones, famous for their region. These breads, along with crafted goods such as rugs and textiles made from the wool of their herd animals, are used to trade with travelers that take the desert routes through southern Ne’Oor. Guided by the Stars While well-adapted to heat, most Midbari keep night-time hours, where they can keep watch against predators and keep cool while taking care of camp duties. This is especially true of the nomadic tribes, who rely upon the stars to navigate the ever-changing landscape of the vast deserts. Traveling in the dark requires keen sight, and the Midbari are able to see landmarks and approaching enemies at long distances in the extremely dim light of the moon and stars, due to their advanced eyesight. Finding their way through the vast dunes is a skill learned by all Midbari natives. The stars serve as their lampposts, and with a series of hand gestures aligned with certain constellations, they can find their way everywhere they have once been and nearly anywhere they need to go. While many Midbari trade their artisanal goods to desert visitors to get the supplies they need, quite a few use their navigation skills to serve as guides to travelers who are lost in their lands… for a price. Midbari Names Midbari first names nearly always begin with a vowel, and flow through multiple syllables of added soft consonants and doubled sounds. While they speak Common, their accents, which focus on rolling Rs, Us (pronounced “ooh”), and Is (pronounced “ee”), as well as broken syllables, were passed down over the generations from a lost Midbari language, which only the oldest in the community still speak as a trade language. The Midbari identify themselves by clan, regardless of familial lines, and they have only recently taken on surnames, as is the fashion across Ne’Oor, as their populations grow. Borrowing from the cultures of their neighbors, these invented surnames, if they choose to take one, generally speak of the nature around them or the powerful imagery they wish to bestow upon their family. Sample First Names : Arri’kamu, Arr’nashnu, U’David, Aturr’yen, El’utzu, Em’brunu, Im’lu, I’ulitzu, Oluv’lav, Orru’na, Ul’tarru, Ut’uso Sample Surnames : Allguide, Ashroot, Axemoon, Coolfoot, Dunebreak, Earthshaper, Evenstride, Oryxheart, Understar, Sandspirit Midbari Traits As a Midbari, you have a natural adaptation to living in scorching climates and cultural knowledge of the stars, weapons, and other traditions. Ability Score Increase . Your Dexterity and Charisma scores each increase by 1, but your Strength decreases by 1. Age . Midbari reach physical maturity at the same age as most humans and are considered adult at 18 years old. Alignment . Due to their wandering lifestyle, most Midbari are Chaotic to Neutral and Neutral to Good. They are generally honest and caring people, but their need for trade and survival forces them to embellish their goods and services in dry times. Size . Midbari have slim builds with athletic bodies, as their lifestyle includes plenty of exercise. Their height is typical for normal Humans, ranging from just under 5 feet to over 6 feet. If your older Wardling character is taller than 4 feet, their size is Medium as well, although most Midbari children under 9 years old will be under 4 feet tall and are size Small. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet if you are Medium sized or 25 feet if you are Small sized. Sandborn . You are naturally adapted to hot climates and receive a +4 racial bonus on Constitution saving throws against natural heat, such as hot weather. Additionally, you have no penalty for difficult terrain or on Acrobatics checks when moving through sandy areas. Starstruck . You can see up to 120 feet clearly and have advantage on the Perception and Survival skills while under a night sky or other dim lighting conditions. Additionally, you receive +2 to all rolls when navigating by the stars. Midbari Weapon Training . You have proficiency with scimitars, rapiers, and shortbows. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and one additional language of your choice, as Midbari meet many other races in their travels. Midbari Wardlings Wardling Bonus . Midbari Wardlings gain a Wisdom score increase of 1, in addition to their regular Midbari ability score increase. Cantrip . You know mold sand and true strike from the cantrip list. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for them. Familiar Guardian . You have a Familiar of your choice from the Familiar Guardian list (found in Chapter 7: Magic & Familiars), who is charged with protecting you until you reach adulthood. Favored Familiars include bats, chameleons, coyotes, falcons, lizards, scorpions, and winged snakes. 

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

