# Minotaur

**description**: Minotaurs are imposing and powerful, with a reputation for ferocity that borders on monstrous. They display their achievements proudly by decorating their horns with engraved sigils and designs. If one is versed in minotaur custom, one can tell at a glance the achievements and prowess of a minotaur by examining the decoration on her horns. A minotaur who loses part or all of a horn suffers considerable stigma and must strive to prove their worth. Sometimes a “brokehorn” (a fighting insult to any minotaur) who manages to achieve great deeds earns the gift of having the missing horn magically restored by a temple. Beware any minotaur that willingly gives up or chooses not to restore a lost horn, for this is one of the world’s most driven and dangerous creatures. Terror on the High Seas Minotaurs are a force to be reckoned with in a stand-up fight. Perhaps somewhat against type for their bulk, they are an absolute terror on the sea. Their corsairs have carved a tale of bloody blades and shattered hulls on the water, and even the world’s mightiest navies have learned to respect them. The minotaur’s natural sense of direction makes them ideal navigators on sea as well as land. Cover of night, fog thick enough to carve, and unfamiliar coastlines don’t phase the bull-folk. Twisting Paths Minotaur architecture and city planning always incorporate a particular design: labyrinths. Every settlement and structure of any size created by the bull-folk sports a twisting labyrinth of switchbacks and dead ends. In their largest cities, the city’s leader or reigning monarch lives in a palace at the center of a great labyrinth. At night, the clash of arms and screams of the dying find their way out of the maze. It is said that minotaur leaders invite both friends and enemies to enjoy the hospitality of these palaces, but only their friends survive the stay. Minotaur Names Most minotaurs have two names: a first name, which is often the same as their father’s or mother’s name, plus a descriptor. No matter how many children a minotaur has, odds are most of the males will have the same first name as their father and most of the females will have the same first name as their mother. The descriptors vary, but they’re aspirational rather than earned. Since the descriptors are given by the parents when the minotaur is still an infant, they might or might not turn out to be accurate. For example, parents who want their child to be a great warrior might call it “the Fierce.” If that minotaur grows up to become a poet rather than a warrior, it will still be called “the Fierce.” Male Names: Aewigr, Kamdoth, Korwyn, Krolm, Ordwar, Rankoth, Thargad, Theodar, Theonco, Vorkhul Female Names: Afridde, Brytredda, Chothuk, Gunda, Hrunan, Sedruse, Thariff, Thewenn, Varala, Wentheon Descriptors: the Brave, the Intimidating, the Mighty, the Never-Lost, the Reaver, the Swift, the Unstoppable, the Unyielding Minotaur Traits Your minotaur character has certain characteristics in common with all other minotaurs. Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 2, and your Constitution score increases by 1. Age. Minotaurs age at roughly the same rate as humans but mature 3 years earlier. Childhood ends around the age of 10 and adulthood is celebrated at 15. Alignment. Minotaurs possess a wide range of alignments, just as humans do. Mixing a love for personal freedom and respect for history and tradition, the majority of minotaurs fall into neutral alignments. Size. Adult males can reach a height of 7 feet, with females averaging 3 inches shorter. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Natural Attacks. Your horns are sturdy and sharp. Your horns are a natural melee weapon, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. When you hit with your horns, they deal piercing damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. Charge. Once per turn, if you move at least 10 feet toward a target and hit it with a horn attack in the same turn, you deal an extra 1d6 piercing damage and you can shove the target up to 5 feet as a bonus action. At 11th level, when you shove a creature with Charge, you can push it up to 10 feet instead. You can use this trait a number of times per day equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Labyrinth Sense. You can retrace without error any path you have previously taken, with no ability check. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Minotaur. Alternative Minotaur Traits At your GM’s discretion, you can create a minotaur character from the wetlands or highlands. Such minotaurs are known as bhain kwai (for those from wetlands) or boghaid (for those from highlands), and they each exhibit a few traits different from typical minotaurs. The following entries describe the alternative minotaurs and list new traits for each. If you choose to play one of these types of minotaurs, replace the base minotaur’s Ability Score Increase and Charge traits with the listed traits. Subraces Bhain Kwai Minotaur Boghaid Minotaur

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

