# Minotaur (Midgard)

**description**: The proud minotaurs of the Southlands seek to reclaim their ancestral glories from the ruins of the past. The bull-folk are imposing and powerful, with a well-earned reputation for ferocity that borders on monstrous. Today, the minotaurs exist in two groups, the intrepid bull-folk seeking to reclaim their ancestral cities of Cindass and Roshgazi, and Sudvall’s knights and warriors who balance chivalry with spirituality. Whether battling maze-born beasts, sailing upon sand-skiffs, or charging with a lance against a dinosaur, minotaurs bring their strength to bear on the Southlands. Physical Description As with their cousins in the North, the minotaurs of the Southlands are imposing and powerful, exhibiting many characteristics of the bulls they resemble. Both genders have horned heads covered with shaggy hair. Warriors braid their hair with teeth or other tokens of fallen enemies. The thick hair covering their bodies varies widely in color, from white to medium red-browns to dark brown and black. Many minotaurs shave or dye their fur in patterns signifying their allegiances and beliefs. Adult males can reach a height of 6 1/2 to 7 feet, with females averaging 3 inches shorter. Both genders have a great deal of muscle mass even for their considerable size, and physical prowess plays a large part in their social structure. Minotaurs can live as long as humans but reach adulthood three years earlier. Childhood ends around the age of 10 and adulthood is celebrated at 15. Young adult minotaurs often spend 10 years proving themselves to their elders. Minotaur Horns The most valued accessories of any minotaur are their horns. Grown by both sexes, horns display an individual’s status and strength, and they provide a ready weapon. Minotaurs honor their heritage by taking great care of their horns, polishing and shining them. Regardless of station or role in society, most bull-folk decorate their horns. They chronicle their achievements and victories with carvings, precious metals, jewels, or etchings on their horns. In Sudvall, minotaur knights often coat their horns in shining steel to mimic the lances they carry. Those who lose part or all of a horn suffer considerable stigma and must demonstrate their worth; the term “brokehorn” is a fighting insult. Some seek magical means to regrow their damaged horns, while others choose to keep a reminder of their failing. A brokehorn is one of Midgard’s most driven and dangerous creatures. The Ravening One ancient scourge stands above all the other threats to the bull-folk in the Southlands. The Ravening, a disease inducing madness and a lust for power gained through cannibalistic devouring of hearts, plagues a small portion of the bull-folk population. Some healers and sages speculate some aspect of the climate allows the disease to flourish, and at least one expedition out of Cindass seeks a magical source for the illness. The kijani seedlings of Sudvall offer a type of cure, but they are thousands of miles from the minotaurs of the Middle Sea. Regardless of location, most minotaurs fear the Ravening with good reason, as the disease regresses them into the monstrous beasts. Competitive Culture Minotaurs delight in competitions, proving their worth through deeds of strength or skill. These contests are seldom to the death; demonstrating superiority over a rival is enough. They believe defeat should not bring shame, only a renewed determination. The feudal culture of Sudvall factors in the minotaurs’ drive to compete, crafting their social schedule around a calendar of festivals and jousting tournaments. Twisting Paths and Labyrinth Magic Every minotaur settlement and structure of any size sports a twisting labyrinth of switchbacks and dead ends. While the Great Labyrinth in the capital city of Kyprion is the most renowned, Mazuli Sul, the “first labyrinth,” is the more infamous. This magically corrupted maze changes and grows like a living thing, sending tendrils of twisting corridors into the ruins of Roshgazi and beyond. The school of labyrinth magic belongs to the minotaurs. It includes elements of confusion, dimensional manipulation, and bolstering the bull-folk’s natural weapons. They seldom share this magic with other races. Minotaur Names Most minotaurs have two names. The first is almost always their father’s or mother’s name, or more distant kin for children after the first. While Northern bull-folk use descriptors given by family for their second name, Southland minotaurs scoff at such frivolity. Their deeds mark their glory and grant their second names, not some nickname given to an infant. Male Names: Aewigr, Krolm, Ordwar, Rankoth, Thargad, Vorkhul Female Names: Afridde, Chothuk, Gunda, Hrunan, Thewenn, Varala Minotaur Traits Your minotaur character has the following traits in common with other minotaurs. Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 2, and your Constitution score increases by 1. Age. Minotaurs mature at roughly the same rate as humans but mature 3 years earlier. Childhood ends around the age of 10 and adulthood is celebrated at 15. Alignment. Minotaurs possess a wide range of alignments, just as humans do. Mixing a love for personal freedom and respect for history and tradition, the majority of minotaurs fall into neutral alignments. Size. Adult males can reach a height of 6 1⁄2 to 7 feet, with females averaging 3 inches shorter. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Natural Attacks. You have proficiency with your horns, which deal 1d6 piercing damage. Charge. If you move at least 10 feet toward a target and hit it with a horn attack in the same turn, you deal an extra 1d6 piercing damage and you can shove the target as a bonus action. You can apply this extra damage once per turn. Starting at 11th level, when you successfully shove a creature with Charge, you can push it 10 feet instead of 5. You can use this ability a number of times equal to your Constitution modifier, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Labyrinth Sense. You can retrace without error any path you have previously taken, with no ability check. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Minotaur, as well as one other language of your choice (typically the Trade Tongue or Southern languages). Backgrounds. Minotaurs in the Southlands are natural survivors and commonly have the Guild Artisan, Outlander, Sailor, and Soldier backgrounds.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 11996

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Southlands Player's Guide

