# Mousefolk

**description**: “You laughed when I said I would repay you,“ said the Mouse. “Now you see that even a Mouse can help a Lion.” —Aesop, The Lion and the Mouse Never to be looked down upon, the slight, unassuming mousefolk are kindhearted to a fault and possess courage greater than most giants. Mousefolk mature in their teens and live around 80 years. Tiny But Brave Though the tiny, big-eared mousefolk are often overlooked by larger creatures, history is rife with stories of gallant mouse-knights staring down dragons, crossing blades with warlords, and charging into grand battles. It happens that few mousefolk aspire to heroism, but a certain moral compass often compels mousefolk to a higher cause. As a rule, mousefolk are good to their neighbors and rarely pick fights; after all, most people can be reasoned with. Those who can’t be reasoned with, however, should rightly fear mousefolk striking at their knees. Mousefolk don’t suffer bullies lightly. Despite their valorous legacies, no histories are written about the mousefolk culture itself. This is because the mousefolk language, Rodentia, has no written form, and mousefolk preserve thier history in stories and songs passed from elders to children throughout the generations. Hooded or Disgraced Though ratlings have long abandoned the old ways, a mouseling is never to be seen without a hood. Following ancient tradition, mouselings wear hoods they have sewn themselves at all times, except in the most dire of circumstances. A hood is a symbol of wealth and social standing, and is sometimes replaced with hats or other headwear when appropriate. If a mouseling is seen without a hood, it is a sure sign of disgrace and exile, the most personal punishment a village of mouselings can inflict. Mousefolk Traits Slight and swift, you possess the following traits: Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 2 and increase a different score by 1, or increase three different scores by 1. Typical: Dexterity +2, Charisma +1 Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. Size. You are Small. Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it was bright light, and darkness as if it was dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Lightfooted. You have proficiency in the Stealth skill. Scurry. You can move through the space of any hostile creature as if it were difficult terrain. Squeeze. You suffer no penalty for squeezing through a space that is only large enough for a creature that is one size smaller than you. Mousefolk Lineage. Mousefolk belong to a lineage of mouselings or ratlings. Choose one of the following lineage options: Mouseling’s Sidestep. When a creature you can see makes an opportunity attack against you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t use this trait when wearing medium or heavy armor. Ratling’s Gnaw. You can use your action to chew through and break a small nonmagical object that isn’t being worn or carried, like a rope, a wooden rod or handle, or a length of fabric. If you chew on a wooden wall or floor for 1 minute, you can gnaw a hole large enough for a Tiny creature. You can’t chew through materials that are harder than your teeth, such as metal, stone, or crystal.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Mage Hand Press

**book**: Valda's Spire of Secrets

