# Mousquetaire

**description**: Mousquetaires are slivers of powerful beings inside a Tiny creature or object. They come to the Material Plane at the behest of a higher authority, such as a god or archfey, to execute a single piece of a greater plan. Their size is critical to the task's success, minimizing the amount of influence and attention the authority has in the mortal realm. This peculiar union of Tiny mortal and powerful being results in the host performing feats that it could never accomplish on its own. Though the name mousquetaire implies the prevalence of rodents as the targets of greater powers, these beings also inhabit insects, plants, and objects. When it comes into being, a mousquetaire bears an illuminated scar, bib, or cape. Mousquetaires can immediately identify other mousquetaires and recognize the entity that created them. Mousquetaires come into being with a specific, completable task set upon them. When they have completed this mission, their spirit returns to their authority and their host returns to normal. A mousquetaire is free to abandon their task, but they may soon find that the authority’s power begins to fade and they start to lose control of their host. Their time is typically short no matter what choices they make. But surely, the mousquetaire will always leave a large impact on the world behind them. Mousquetaire Traits As a mousquetaire, you have the following traits. Inhabited . You have two creature types: one provided by your base creature below, and your choice of Celestial, Fey, or Fiend. An effect that affects either of your creature types affects you. Ability Score Increase . When determining your character's ability scores, increase one score by 2 and increase a different score by 1, or increase three different scores by 1. Age . No matter their shape or form before becoming a mousquetaire, the base creature doesn’t age. Size . Your size is Tiny (see “Special Size Rules”). Speed . Your walking speed is 20 feet, and you have a climbing speed equal to your walking speed. Base Creature . Choose one of the following base creatures to inhabit. This body takes on a more humanoid appearance when you assume control: Insect . You are a Beast. You have proficiency in the Athletics skill. Object . You are a Construct. You do not need to eat, drink, or breathe. While you remain motionless, you are indistinguishable from an ordinary object. Plant . You are a Plant. You do not need to eat. Each day at dawn, you grow a number of berries equal to your proficiency bonus. You can feed one of these berries to a creature (or it can consume the berry on its own) as a bonus action to restore 1 hit point. The berries lose their potency after 24 hours. Rodent . You are a Beast. You have proficiency in the Perception skill. Undead . You are an Undead. You do not need to eat, drink, or breathe. You have resistance to necrotic damage. Bounding Body . You don’t take damage as a result of falling. Steadfast . When you take damage, you can use your reaction to immediately take on an otherworldly glow. For 1 minute, you gain the following benefits: Once on each of your turns, you deal an additional 1d4 force damage to a target when you deal damage to it with an attack or spell. When you make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the saving throw. You can't use this trait again until you finish a long rest. Languages . You can speak one language of your choice and a second language based on your second creature type (Celestial for Celestial, Sylvan for Fey, and Abyssal or Infernal for Fiend). Building Mousquetaire Characters You can use these sample aspects to help create a mousquetaire. Names : Mousquetaire names have a poetic flourish to them granted by their higher authority, such as Falconi O’sta, Insen deAry, and Vellichor. Increased Ability Scores : Strength, Dexterity, Charisma Archetypes : Aberrant loudmouth (chaotic), unphased sage (neutral), valiant knight (lawful) Languages : Celestial, Common, Infernal, Sylvan Character Prompts : The following prompts can be elaborated on with your GM: Rats deBatz, mouse knight of nature, tasked with destroying a mysterious threat known as the seeds of chaos Dartologian, will-o’-wisp sage of knowledge, enlisted to coerce the titans to sing the Jotun Hymn and prevent the giant onslaught Reno S'marpee, the doll warrior of stars who must ignite the seven lights to restore peace to the land

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 14

