# Naga

**description**: Scaled, serpentine beings with innate psychic abilities, naga are very physically different from humans. They move by slithering on their massive snake tails, which account for their bodies from the waist down. The typical naga is roughly fifteen feet from head to tail, rising to about eight when balancing themselves upright. Naga Physiology For all appearances half-human and half-serpent, the naga share many aspects with snakes and serpents. They are human-looking from the waist up, albeit covered in thin snakeskin and plated scutes, and have other serpentine traits as well. Among these is a far higher sense of smell than human beings, and the ability to “taste” the air with their forked tongues. Their eyes can perceive the glow of a living being’s natural heat in the dark, and they can sense the vibrations caused by movement on the ground or in the water. Like snakes, they can unhinge their jaws and unfurl long fangs. They are also natural swimmers, capable of breathing through their skin while submerged. Due to their cold blood, naga tend to hibernate during the cold season. The Unity In addition to their heightened senses, the naga’s apparent sixth sense allows them to speak to one another through their own thoughts, even across long distances, by entering into a trancelike state. This ability is normally very weak, but it can be trained over time, built up like a muscle. Masters of this sixth sense are able to communicate over vast distances, project a sort of etheric image of themselves, or even directly transfer constructed memories. Masters can spend hours in the trance state, communing with one another in a spiritual union of their minds. Their thoughts can sometimes become tangled when this occurs, a state referred to as the Council. The Council is not a separate being, but an amalgamation of thought that possesses the collective perspectives of all participants, speaking on behalf of all. Naga in Human Guise Those who believe historical naga sightings and recognize them from tales of the Ivory Kingdoms are also likely to believe that Rokugani naga have never ventured beyond the Shinomen. They would be mistaken, as naga possess an innate ability to disguise themselves. The naga disguise is a projected image, constructed from a combination of pheromones and dream magic, bending light and befuddling the senses to appear as an ordinary human being. Naga refer to this as “charming.” The illusion can be as complex as the naga desires, though each disguise takes extensive practice; most naga only ever learn to create and maintain one or two illusory identities. Naga Traits As a naga, you benefit from the following: Ability Score Increase . Choose two different ability scores to increase by 1. Age . Naga can live for thousands of years, and often slumber for centuries. As such, they do not measure their age in seasons or years but in moltings. Like snakes, as they age, naga molt their skins; the first molting is an important event in a naga’s life, and the shed skin is often cured and kept as a memento from one’s youth. The ninth molting is equally important, because it marks the beginning of adulthood and one’s path through life. Though these moltings can take place essentially at any time, most naga who are nine moltings old have lived at least a century. Size . You are fifteen feet or longer from head to tail and tower over most humans, but you are also quite lithe. As such, despite your length, you are Medium. Speed . Your base walking speed is 35 feet. You also have a swimming speed of 35 feet. Amphibious . If you are in clean fresh water, you can breathe while submerged. Cold-Blooded . You have disadvantage on checks and saving throws to resist the effects of extreme cold, and are vulnerable to cold damage. Expanded Senses . You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. Further, you can see sources of heat within 30 feet of you, which appear as silhouettes that range from yellow (cool) to bright red (very hot). Additionally, you can feel vibrations at a range of 30 feet, allowing you to sense movement within this range if you share a contact surface with the moving creature or object. This grants you advantage on your passive Perception (a +5 bonus) when it involves detecting a creature approaching you stealthily. This does not apply to flying or incorporeal creatures. Serpentine Charming . You can passively maintain an illusory identity that allows you to walk among other species without notice. To onlookers, you seem to be a member of another species of your choice, perhaps riding a mount or flanked by attendants to account for your size. Most creatures accept this illusion unless they are given reason to question it. To pierce through this illusion, a creature who suspects you must make an Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check with DC equal to 12 plus your proficiency bonus. You can change the details of this identity after you complete a long rest. The Unity . During a short or long rest, instead of gaining the benefits of resting, you can send a telepathic message to one creature that you know at any distance. The target (and only the target) hears the message, but cannot reply unless it also has this ability. Language . See Backgrounds .

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

