# Nephilim

**description**: The Nephilim were on the Earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of man and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown. Genesis 6:4 After God had created humans, he sent 200 angels, led by the lieutenant Shemichaza, to watch the newly made species. Although they were supposed to keep their distance, the angels fell in love with the daughters and sons of mankind. Out of their union came children, taller and even more beautiful than humans, much adored by all living beings – the nephilim. God was furious and decided to punish the perpetrators. He bound the Watchers in a deep cave and sent the flood to kill all humans and nephilim. Only one son of Shemichaza survived, as Noah took pity on him and allowed him on the ark. From him came the species of nephilim. Even more than is true for the tieflings, the fate of this species is to slowly deteriorate. As there have only been very few opportunities for the nephilim to lie with angels, that only leaves other nephilim and humans to mate with. There are no known successful matings of nephilim with any of the other species. Speculation about the reasons for that phenomenon include racial prejudice and biological incompatibility. In 1492, their numbers are few and their existence is known only to a few humans. Nephilim have been hiding their true identities for the past 1500 years, after their most prominent member Jehoshua ben Josef (also known as Jeshua, Jesus) was executed for wanting to unite humans and non-humans in the grace of God as well as for his “pretense” of being the Mashiach (messiah). In the centuries following the crucifixion, nephilim often used their ethereal appearance to pass as elves. Today – as elves are also being forgotten – they just try to go unnoticed. Their families usually live in old castles or mansions far from the growing cities. Nephilim Traits Appearance. The more the nephilim mate with humans, the more they lose their angelic traits. The first nephilim were mighty beings, true giants with wonderful wings spanning up to 26 feet (approx. 8 meters). Depending on the purity of their blood, nephilim will still look somewhat angelic, with very light skin and graceful features. But only very pure and ancient nephilim have retained wings that allow them to fly. Nephilim who venture into human society merely have small wings that can fold behind their backs to be hidden beneath clothes. These won’t be longer than 3 feet (less than 1 meter), but every naphil (single form of nephilim) will feel the urge to unfold them at least once a day. Being deprived of this freedom makes him or her irritable and will actually hurt. Nephilim are taller than most humans and of slender build. They have no facial hair, but very fine long body hair almost indiscernible to the naked eye. They basically look like elves minus the pointy ears, plus small wings. It is no wonder that these two species get easily confused. Nephilim do, nevertheless, have two other very distinctive traits: they have neither navels nor nipples. This comes from the fact that nephilim come from eggs. By the time they hatch – usually a year after the egg is laid – they are able to stand and be fed normally. It will then only take them 5–7 years to mature physically. That makes them of course not any wiser than human children. Just more dangerous. They may already be skilled swordsmen and -women by the age of 8, but will they know when to wield a weapon? Mostly not, which is one other reason why nephilim families avoid human contact and keep their offspring close until they are actually prepared to reason and interact wisely. But even the most reclusive nephilim clans let their young members leave home for a few years to get to know the world and learn why it might be better to stay away from it. A nephilim PC will not be younger than 25 or 30. Ability score increase. Your Charisma score increases by 1, and your Dexterity score increases by 2. Age. As mentioned above, nephilim initially mature quickly, but then they age slowly. This is why nephilim can become very old, up to 250 years, but will usually not interact with humans past the age of 60, which is when they look like 30. Alignment. If you use alignments in your campaign, nephilim do not have an inherent preference, but only very few will actually be evil. Size. Nephilim are usually not shorter than 6 feet (approx. 1.8 meters). Although they can be much taller, only nephilim of less than 6.5 feet (approx. 2 meters) in height will be allowed to interact with humans. Please note that the average size of humans in 1492 was considerably smaller than it is today, so a person 2 meters tall is huge! Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Float. Your short wings do not enable you to fly but you can float or hover for a short period. This comes in handy when falling from great heights or having to levitate a bit. You will of course have to remove your clothes to use the wings. Enchanting music. Nephilim are masters of song and music. A fully matured naphil will be able to play at least one instrument and sing beautifully, and with this combination can charm any humanoid within a 30 feet (a bit less than 10 meters) radius. The person(s) affected must make a Wisdom saving throw against DC 8 + your proficiency bonus + your charisma modifier, and will do so with advantage if they are fighting the naphil or his group. If they fail, they will calm down, feel peaceful and positively inclined towards the character. It requires 1 action to cast, but then the spell lasts as long as the song continues, no longer than 5 minutes though. This ability can be a very powerful tool, but please be aware that it will only work if you can play and sing at the same time and the target(s) can actually hear you. It won’t work if your hands are bound, you are gagged or if the targets cannot hear you for some reason. Languages. Apart from the human language of the country they live in, nephilim will understand and speak the original angelic language. Many families also preserve the old Aramaic from the times when they still interacted openly with humans. Religion. Perhaps unsurprisingly, nephilim are mostly Christians. Depending on their provenance, they will usually either be Roman Catholic or Orthodox. Still, some adhere to gnostic or other “heretical” versions of Christianity. Not all are fanatics, but you do find quite a few zealots amongst the members of this species. Starting with Jehoshua, these were often responsible for major developments and schisms in the history of Christianity. A Jewish nephilim is possible, but he or she will definitely be an outcast amongst the followers of most prominent nephilim. Odd fact. Nephilim are vegetarians and will not kill animals unless attacked by them.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

