# Nezumi

**description**: The nezumi are humanoid beings who bear a resemblance to rodents and have fur, hairless tails, and dexterous paws. Many nezumi lived in the lands to the south of what would be Rokugan, prior to the foundation of the Emerald Empire. However, when Fu Leng’s fall scorched the sky and shattered the earth, their civilization was devastated. And when Fu Leng’s anguish twisted the oni of the deepest pits of the underworld, unthinkable monsters spread forth from the howling wound in the Mortal Realm to sow chaos and destruction. Some nezumi fled north, settling in the Shinomen Forest, while others remained in their ancient homeland even as it transformed into the seething wastes called the Shadowlands, proving very resilient in the face of this horror. Nezumi are almost entirely immune to becoming subsumed by Fu Leng’s dominating will while alive, nor do their dead rise as monstrosities if left buried in the Shadowlands. They can eat the twisted plants and animals that grow in the Shadowlands, and drink the brackish, defiled water. Monsters may stalk the land and vile spirits haunt the wastes, but the nezumi are courageous and cunning. And so the nezumi have persisted for millennia in a realm that can destroy an incautious human in a matter of hours. Nezumi Physiology Furred, with clawed feet and hands, ratlike noses, and long tails, nezumi are smaller than most humans but quick and perceptive. They average roughly four feet in height, but this varies between individuals, as does fur color, whisker length, and whether the individual prefers to walk on two or four feet. Their senses of smell and hearing are quite sharp compared to those of most humans, and most can react to danger as quickly as a trained human soldier, thanks in part to their sensitive whiskers. Many nezumi live only three or four years, though some have been known to live quite a bit longer, with the most venerable nezumi known reaching the ages of twelve to fifteen years. Their impressive rate of reproduction keeps up their numbers, but given the short time between generations, nezumi must work hard to maintain their traditions and culture over even a relatively short span of years. Yesterday Remembered The nezumi Rememberers are their sages, capable of using the magic of the Realm of Dreams to preserve visions of the past for future generations. They tell of a golden age, when the nezumi were united in a single kingdom that was renowned even in faraway lands. Its warriors were respected and their scholars praised, and they sent envoys to faraway lands in the icy mountains to the far north and the many islands to the south. Then, a falling mountain crashed through their capital, sending it forever into the Realm of Dreams. In an instant, untold nezumi perished. Evil leaked into the world, and corruption spread across their lands, withering fields and transforming beings into vile beasts—all except the nezumi, who alone proved resilient. At least, this is the tale Rememberers of the nezumi tell. Nezumi Traits As a nezumi, you benefit from the following: Ability Score Increase . Choose one ability score to increase by 2, and another to increase by 1. Age . Most nezumi live only a few years, though some individuals have been known to live more than a decade. Size . Nezumi are on average short and slight compared with humans, ranging from three to five feet tall in most cases. You are Small. Speed . Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Adapted to the Shadowlands . You are able to eat the food and water of the Shadowlands without risk, have advantage on saving throws against the powers and abilities of Lost creatures, and do not suffer the usual penalties for undertaking a long rest in the Shadowlands (see Provisions and Resting in the Shadowlands ). Evade by a Whisker . Your whiskers can detect airflow changes, letting you sidestep attacks seemingly before they are thrown. Increase your AC against opportunity attacks by +2. Sharp Senses . You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Skitter . You can run on all fours at impressive speeds. By spending a bonus action, you can drop onto all fours to skitter. You can wield only a single one-handed weapon, and your base walking speed becomes 40 feet. You also gain a climb speed of 40 feet. You can stop skittering by spending a bonus action to stand back up onto your hind legs. Language . See Backgrounds .

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

