# Oculus

**description**: “When we advanced deep into that cave system, we thought we were going to fight a beholder...what else were we to expect when that villager who hired us told us they saw an eye monster come from the mountain? When we got into that huge cavern, though, there must have been hundreds of them, what I could only describe as human-sized and -shaped eyes, and even weirder...they welcomed us with tea.” —Flop McBurrough, when interviewed about his adventuring party’s first encounter with oculi Oculi are telepathic humanoids whose bodies are entirely made up of a single eye, though they are shaped as most other bipedal humanoids are with arms, legs, a neck, and a head. Each oculi has a single pupil that can be moved anywhere on the surface of its body, allowing it to see at any angle. All Seeing Eyes Oculi do not have bodily orifices, such as ears, mouths, noses, or others. They experience taste, sound, and smell through a shallow and near-imperceptible membrane that surrounds their bodies, detecting and interpreting subtle stimuli. Oculi feed by absorbing nutrients through this membrane from bacteria and other microorganisms. An oculus can also “eat” more traditional foodstuffs by slowly absorbing the nutrients through contact with its membrane. Each oculus has a uniquely colored iris surrounding its large pupil, often with a myriad of intertwining colors. Other than body size and shape, these unique irises are the only way to tell individual oculi apart. An oculus, while aware of bodily harm, does not experience pain as other creatures do. When an oculus’s body has sustained enough damage, it will immediately enter a repair state that acts similarly to another creature’s unconscious state. Watchful Hive Oculi tend to live in underground cave systems in which they carve out structures to use as homes and defensible positions. Due to their ability to telepathically communicate near-instantaneously, a group of oculi, called a watch, develops a sort of hive mind. This hive mind allows them to be efficient and unified in purpose, helping the watch to create elaborate and highly functional structures with incredible efficiency. When living in large groups, oculi very rarely venture from their cave system. They are a self-reliant species that neither depends on nor offers aid to other races. They are aware of the value of gold and treasures for the purposes of the rare interaction or trade with other cultures, but have no use for such things within a watch. Intelligent Design Oculi live extremely long lives when undisturbed, and reproduce asexually when a watch determines more members are needed. This reproduction occurs as a mitosis lasting nearly a century, during which the “parent” decides the evolutionary form its offspring will take. In this way, a watch can regulate a balance of the roles required by oculus society. Oculus Names Oculi typically do not have personal names as each oculus sees itself primarily as an extension of its watch, rather than an individual. When an oculus leaves its watch, though, and learns to live as an individual, it tends to adopt a name from the first culture it encounters. This name might not even be one used by other creatures; it might just be a pleasant-sounding name of an object. Oculus Traits As an oculus, you have the following traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence score increases by 2. Age. Oculi reach maturity only a few days after their mitosis is complete, and can live for nearly 2000 years. Alignment. As creatures of a heavily structured and deeply self-reliant culture, most oculi are lawful neutral. Size. Oculi can range from 4 feet to nearly 6 feet tall, depending on their evolutionary function, and weigh an average of 140 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. You have a base walking speed of 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Eye Open. Oculi do not need to sleep, but must enter a resting state for 8 hours to benefit from a long rest. You do not dream in this state; you are fully aware of your surroundings and notice approaching enemies and other events as though you were awake. Oculus Perception. Whenever you make a Wisdom (Perception) check using sight, you add double your proficiency bonus to the check, even if you are not normally proficient. Telepathy. You can speak telepathically to creatures within 60 feet of you. For a creature to understand your telepathy, you must share a language. You perform the verbal components of spells by broadcasting them to all creatures within range of your telepathy. Languages. Oculi can’t physically speak, but communicate telepathically. They can “speak,” read, and write Common and one other language of your choice, usually the language of a society near to the watch into which you were born. Subrace. Three main evolutionary functions of oculi make up oculus society: the Oculus Adjudicate, the Oculus Inquisitive, and the Oculus Vigilant. Choose one of these subraces. Oculus Adjudicate Oculus Inquisitive Oculus Vigilant

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

