# Ogre

**description**: Somebody once told the world that ogres knew only hunger and marauding. They have no lands to call their home and fight to maintain any comfort or routine they've claimed for themselves. Ogres are even forsaken by the god of the giants, and languish below hill giants at the bottom of their social structure. There's more to the ogre's story when the layers are peeled back. Ogres stand nearly ten feet tall and their skin tones trend towards pale yellows, greens, browns, and purples. They possess an incredibly intricate musculature, allowing them to express a variety of subtle feelings and expressions that words can’t capture. Their bodies burn energy at a breakneck pace, and many ogres need twelve hours of sleep to stay healthy (though adventuring ogres learn to adapt to the sleeping schedules of their fellow party members). Ogre families typically stay small to make the best use of resources around them. However, some ogres settle within big gnome societies, offering the gnomes protection and helping with their infrastructure efforts. Ogres often take up performative wrestling, firework tossing, and the culinary arts when their needs are met. Ogres have a unique emotion for setting off on adventure best described as a "happy frown." Little can stop an ogre from going after big dreams. Ogre Traits As an ogre, you have the following traits. Ability Score Increase . When determining your character's ability scores, increase one score by 2 and increase a different score by 1, or increase three different scores by 1. Age . Ogres reach full maturity at 6 years old and can live to just beyond 100 years. Creature Type . You are a Humanoid. Size . Your size is Large (see “Special Size Rules”). Speed . Your walking speed is 40 feet. Darkvision . You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You discern colors in that darkness only as shades of gray. Giant Toss . As a bonus action, you can throw a willing creature within 5 feet of you or a creature grappled by you a number of feet equal to 10 times the number of size categories smaller the target is than you (minimum 0). The creature lands on their feet. Ogre Load . Your speed is unaffected by dragging or carrying a grappled creature one or more size categories smaller than you. Languages . You can speak two languages of your choice. Building Ogre Characters You can use these sample aspects to help create an ogre. Names : Ogre names are simple and guttural words derived from Giant, such as Bror, Fruddin, and Zog. Increased Ability Scores : Strength, Constitution, Charisma Archetypes: Honest gambler (lawful), quiet giant (neutral), thrill-seeking instigator (chaotic) Languages : Common, Giant, Gnomish, Goblin Character Prompts : The following prompts can be elaborated on with your GM: Bog Bog, an oracle of the god of the giants, who needs to warn the cloud giants of their vision of a kingdom hurtling towards the ground Shump, a reclusive wax sculptor who wants to save their forest home from an encroaching eldritch blight Zoeed, a professional wrestler looking to someday face the strongest fighter in front of a live audience

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 14

