# Phaenec

**description**: The dark-skinned Phaenec are a nomadic race living in the Ember Wastelands of Ashandri. Their ancestors were regular humans. Some day they met a friendly tribe of humanoid desert fox spirits, the Faradhin. Friendship turned into romance, and over time, a new race evolved. For generations, Phaenec and spirits lived together in harmony. But one day, the fox spirits were gone - with no traces of what had happened to them. Not even powerful spellcasters managed to find them anymore. Most Phaenec have given up hope, but a few still try to find the Faradhin. Despite the loss of their friends and lovers, the Phaenec retained their spiritual lifestyle. They are deeply attuned to the harsh desert. The tribes believe that the land itself has a soul, and the more you understand it, the more you thrive. Even other native races like the Ember Orcs struggle in the open desert. But for the Phaenec, the Ember Wastelands are more than just their home. They call it Akhavi, which translates into Loving Nourisher. Somehow, the Phaenec always find the food and even healing plants that they need. And it’s no secret that they can summon the desert itself to fight their enemies. The apocalypse was disastrous for this race. Not all of the old queendom of Larysh was saved, and most Phaenec lived in a region that was entirely destroyed. Only three tribes survived, with no more than a few hundred members each. And even those were decimated further during the first invasion of Va’Laeth. About half of the original survivors were killed in the battles, and the Phaenec are at the brink of extinction. Some of them think they should leave their desert home, and spread into the world. Others are convinced that now, more than ever, the Phaenec have to stick together. Despite these conflicts, they are united in their beliefs: Everything in nature has a soul, and all souls are equal. In such a world, everything deserves respect, even if it appears dead or inanimate. That also means that all Phaenec consider themselves worthy of respect, and they demand it where necessary. Phaenec Warriors About 20% of all Phaenec become warriors, protectors of the tribe. It’s a free choice open to any member of the tribe. They are called Threndavi, which translates into Loving Shield. The Threndavi choose their own mentors from among the other warriors, and taking in a student is considered an honor for the teacher. Every Threndavi receives a Ma’Aru, one of the golden armors of the Phaenec. The warriors are trained to use the reflecting surface to their advantage, blinding their opponents with sunlight. The armor remains property of the tribe, and if the warrior ever leaves the tribe's vicinity, they have to give it back until they return. A Threndavi Phaenec Warrior Phaenec language The Phaenec tribes speak Phaenon, a purely oral language. They have no recorded history, and their language has no concepts of time. To them, everything is in the present, even if it happened already - or not yet. Most Phaenec also learn Common so they can interact with other races. Many of them struggle with writing, and only a few have mastered the concept of different times. Most Phaenec change the tenses randomly as they speak Common, and even if they try hard, they occasionally switch between past, present and future. Phaenec Names Phaenec names are based on the Phaenon language. Names tend to use mostly soft sounds, and rarely have more than two syllables. The Phaenec don't have family names. As tribes are relatively small, names aren't used twice within a tribe. Female Phaenec names: Ashi, Bara, Gyva, Lajj, Ra, Shaez, Silid Male Phaenec names: Dhis, Djawajj, Mat, Mavi, Naqa, Ubar Traits Ability Score Increase: Wisdom+2, Charisma+1 Age: Phaenec are considered mature at about 18 years, and often live up to 130-140 years. Alignment: Most Phaenec are good or neutral. Evil individuals are usually banished from a tribe, unless they hide their deeds well. Size: Phaenec are usually a bit smaller than humans. Their size ranges from barely five to almost six feet, but most of them are in the smaller spectrum of this range. Their size category is medium. Languages: Phaenec have their own language, Phaenon, which has no written version. You can also read and write Common. Speed: Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Heightened Senses: You have Proficiency on Perception checks based on sound. Spirit Flame: Calling upon your spirit ancestors, you can cast Sacred Flame twice for 1d8 radiant damage. You regain the ability to cast it after finishing a long rest. Grasp of the Desert: Beginning at 3rd level, you can summon the very ground you walk upon to help you in battle. You can cast Entangle as a first-level spell once, but instead of weed and vines, the soil or sand from the ground rises on your command. This counts as a material component needed for the spell to work, which is not consumed by the spell. If there is no soil or sand, you can summon these elemental forces from as much as a pouch of sand. Your spell save DC for this ability is 8 + your Proficiency modifier + your Wisdom modifier. You regain the ability to cast it after finishing a long rest. Wisdom is your Spellcasting ability for this spell. Nomadic attunement: Beginning at 5th level, you can call upon your spirit heritage to cast Locate Animals or Plants once. The Phaenec can use their own fur as a material component for this spell. You regain the ability to cast it after finishing a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 17295

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

