# Piney

**description**: When did our ways become so old? A stump, a frog, a flowr’ unfold, I heard em’ call us worse than sin, The forest was deep ‘for we slipped in, The shadows were here ‘for we slipped in. Many villages scattered through the Margreve are home to an elusive species of humanoids known as the pineys. These strange beings are followers of a superstitious code known to outsiders as “the old ways,” though the pineys themselves do not refer to it as such. For them, the rules of the Margreve are as natural as the leaves growing on the boughs above. On occasion, and likely caused by banishment arising from actions contrary to the old ways, a piney leaves the limits of the Margreve. These cast-outs soon lose the extreme features of their kind, reverting to a more human form. However, the magic of the great forest still courses through their blood, manifesting in strange and sometimes dreadful ways. Shadows of the Margreve While the pineys were once human, their bodies have been changed by the magic of the great forest over the generations. When a piney leaves the Margreve, the forest’s influence fades but never fully disappears. Their too-long limbs and blank inchoate eyes suggest a fey influence, but their kind is also known for strange plant-like qualities to their skin, hair, and nails. For this reason, pineys prefer wearing scarves and hoods to hide their true faces. Pineys do not recognize gender and are utterly unconcerned with prescriptive roles based on arbitrary physical characteristics. When a piney wishes to reproduce, the magic of the Margreve allows the piney to alter its form as required to ensure successful reproduction. Godless Pineys do not worship the gods or their masks. Prayer is strictly forbidden and is seen as an expression of the outsiders’ moral inferiority. Pineys who are caught worshipping gods are swiftly banished from their villages. While the pineys revere the forest, they do so not from a desire to approach the divine, but from an absolute and practical surety that their continued existence depends on the enigmatic will of Midgard’s oldest forest. The ceremonies and sacrifices made in the name of the Margreve have a religious outward appearance, but in fact they are very pragmatic—without occasional blood sacrifices, the forest punishes them. Pineys do not innately understand concepts such as spirituality and faith. Suspicious of Magic and Outsiders Pineys generally view spells as either signs of the gods meddling in the natural world or the product of evil beings attempting trickery. Magic from druids and rangers are common exceptions to this superstition, though some piney villages still outlaw such magic just like any other magic. More commonly, piney magic is concerned with the construction of small fetishes or jewelry made from natural material. The act of making these charms is in fact its own kind of magic, and the resulting creations are often enchanted by the piney’s innate connection to the natural world. Pineys sometimes trade the less powerful charms for goods not commonly found in the Margreve. Examples of these charms can be found in the Magic Items chapter. Pineys tend toward suspicion of outsiders, and their interaction with the other folk of Midgard is extremely limited. Late at night along the great trade road north of the forest, cloaked pineys sometimes appear with coin and crafted charms to trade for salt and iron. These ambassadors make their trades quickly and with obvious discomfort. Life in the Forest Piney villages are located deep in the Margreve forest. Though their homes evoke human architecture, the villages are often melded into the trunks of trees or dug into the side of grassy hills. A piney village is a foreboding place with strange symbols etched into the wooden walls of the darkened homes. From these enclaves, pineys patrol their territory from dusk until sunrise ensuring the woods are safe and free from interlopers. Pineys feed through photosynthesis, which often requires them to chase patches of sunlight throughout the day before returning to their villages for a few hours of rest. Way of the Woods Pineys follow an unspoken series of social contracts which outsiders refer to as the “old ways.” These rules are learned by young pineys through cautionary tales told by village elders, and through accidental infractions which are quickly corrected. The “old ways” are generally centered around respecting the Margreve’s power, honoring the memories which lie in the forest’s loamy floor, and making the required sacrifices to ensure the village remains in good standing with the creatures and spirits beyond the village’s borders. A Piney Abroad A piney who leaves the Margreve, either by choice or by banishment, quickly reverts to a more human form. The magic of the ancient forest fades, allowing them to stand straighter, speak in a clearer voice, and behave in a manner less directed by the “old ways.” Despite the loosening of the forest’s grip, a piney always retains some portion of the Margreve’s magic. This most often manifests in physical qualities which can be hard to disguise. Pineys abroad tend to live in small, agricultural communities, and many find they are capable guardians of the small villages they inhabit. They are slow to warm to strangers, though fiercely loyal to friends and family. Pineys leave the Margreve only when they have a strong motivation to do so. Piney Language Pineys speak their own language. It mixes many Elvish words with a vocal approximation of the sounds heard in the forest. Some pineys speak a rough form of Common which is taught to individuals destined to trade with the outside world. Piney Names Pineys abandoned the naming conventions of outsiders centuries ago. There are no names which are distinctly male or female among the pineys, who declare their own names each Spring. It is not uncommon for a piney to have had a different name for each year it has lived. Piney names evoke the sounds, colors, flora, and fauna of the Margreve without relying on distinct words. A piney name is an act of play; it has a musical quality and is sometimes onomatopoeic for a common forest sound. The names of piney villages, on the other hand, follow a very strict set of conventions which honors the oldest tree standing within five miles. If the tree dies, the village name is changed to include the next oldest – in this way, piney villages may have the same name for centuries then go through a period of frequent change. The names are often one or two elvish words that describe the most prominent feature of the tree honored by the village. Though simple, these words carry great weight in their villages and anyone dishonoring the village’s namesake is severely punished. Individual Names: Whihop, Caw, Sususus, Hoom, Whiii, Oaungoaung, Brbl, Kikoko, Auur Village Names: Iai, Ilias, Oiroa, Thyoli, Aidren, Inianto, Asaca Piney Traits Your piney character has traits which are common to any piney who has left the Margreve for an extended period of time. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1. Age. Pineys have the same lifespans as humans, reaching maturity in their late teens. Alignment. Pineys living in their villages follow their own code diligently. They owe no allegiance to the gods, nor do they aspire to being paragons of good or evil. Pineys who leave the Margreve tend to have respect for laws, but they struggle to adopt moral stances. For these reasons, pineys tend towards lawful and neutral alignments. Size. Like humans, pineys vary widely in height and build, from barely 5 feet to well over 6 feet tall. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Margreve Within. As a piney adventuring beyond the Margreve, you have lost the more extreme, occasionally monstrous, qualities of your forest-dwelling kin. Nonetheless, the magic of the elder forest marks you. You can meet your daily alimentary needs by consuming a suitable amount of food or by standing in direct sunlight for 30 minutes. In addition, your organs are partially made from plant matter. You have advantage on saving throws against poison, and you have resistance against poison damage. Margreve Without. Regardless of the time and distance between you and the Margreve, the forest’s influence on you manifests in the form of strange alterations to your body. Although you are humanoid, your connection to the Margreve marks you with plant‑like characteristics. Create a growth of your own in consultation with your GM or pick one from the following list: Your skin is rough with harmless cracks resembling tree bark. Heavily-perfumed flowers grow wherever your body hair is dense. They can be plucked, but they grow back within a few days. Your eyes are twice as large as a human’s, and their color is a changing swirl of green and brown. Your finger and toe nails are wood. Your major joints (shoulder, hip, knee) creak like tree branches when you move. Roots. You have a deep and pragmatic connection with the natural world. You are proficient in the Nature and Survival skills. Darkvision. A life lived under the canopy of the forest has provided you with the ability to see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common, and you can speak Piney, which has no written form.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 16

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Margreve Player's Guide

