# Pixie

**description**: Rarely standing taller than a lark, diminutive pixies of the Feywild embody the impressions outsiders have of fey creatures: childlike, mischievous, and brimming with magic. These fairies flit through forests and over fields, spreading their pixie dust across plants to help them bloom. But given the pixies’ exceptional ability to magically conceal themselves, their splendor can be easy to miss. When pixies want to be seen, they appear as miniature elves with butterfly wings growing from their backs. A pixie’s hair, skin, and wings take on fantastic, radiant colors and patterns depending on the environment where they were born; an arctic pixie might feature icy blue colors and furry wings, whereas an orange desert pixie could be covered in a dizzying display of red dots. Each new pixie looks radically different from the last, even when fey are directly related. Unlike their more reclusive sprite cousins, pixies are known as socialites within the Feywild. Fraternizing with other fey allows them to generate natural energy. When stagnant or dull periods of life drag on for too long, pixies find it hard to resist a small prank on an unsuspecting target to kickstart some chaos. A pixie might adventure at the request of a superior archfey, for the excitement of exploring a new world, or to tip the scales of an orderly society. While adventuring, most pixies prefer to use magic to tackle dangerous encounters instead of fighting outside their weight class. However, the might of any powerful fairy knight ready to lay down their life for a larger cause shouldn’t be discounted. Pixie Traits As a pixie, you have the following traits. Ability Score Increase . When determining your character's ability scores, increase one score by 2 and increase a different score by 1, or increase three different scores by 1. Age . Pixies reach maturity around 20 years old and don’t have a life expectancy. Many pixies meet their end around 300 to predators or disease. Creature Type . You are a Fey. Size . Your size is Tiny (see “Special Size Rules”). Speed . Your walking speed is 10 feet, and you have a flying speed of 30 feet. Fairy Spry . If you are sharing the space with another creature, you can attempt to hide as that creature obscures you. Pixie Dust . As an action or bonus action on your turn, you can emit a cloud of dust that covers a creature you touch. Until the start of your next turn, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to one ability check, attack roll, or damage roll of its choice. The dust then disappears. You can use this trait a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Languages . You can speak one language of your choice. Building Pixie Characters You can use these sample aspects to help create a pixie. Names : Pixies use playful, nature-centric nicknames, such as “Babybell,” “Dandy,” and “Hollykiss” to hide their fey names from being used to hurt them. Increased Ability Scores : Dexterity, Wisdom, Charisma Archetypes : Heart of the glade (lawful), mischievous prankster (chaotic), sleepy dilettante (neutral) Languages : Common, Druidic, Elvish, Sylvan Character Prompts : The following prompts can be elaborated on with your GM: "Honey Honey," an unseelie court miscreant who was given mysterious seeds by an archfey and wants to plant them across the land to see what happens Penet, a long-abandoned familiar out to erase their fey name from their old companion’s spellbook and make a new nickname for themself "Wintersprigg," a seelie court dancer tasked with teaching their dance to the Summer Lord

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 14

