# Possumfolk

**description**: Possumfolk The Possumfolk live in the densely forested parts of The Shrouded Coast, historically creating settlements near the Acadian Mountains and having little interaction with outsiders, but this has shifted in recent years. Led by their elders, possumfolk began leaving their homes, homes they’d been in for generations, and joining the other established towns on the coast. Possumfolk are gentle, hard-working, and loyal people; and are accepted with open arms by the other communities. Family, loyalty, and tradition are most important to the possumfolk. They have worked hard to build new lives outside of the forests, but they remain fearful. They do not like to talk about why they left except to say that they did not leave, but were driven out by a monster. Possumfolk stand like humans, but their fingers and toes curl in and they sport longer, sharper nails. Their hair grows thick and stiff, often standing straight up, and is usually a shade of gray, making it hard to distinguish how old an individual may be. Their hair can come in shades of dark or light gray and may have other colors mixed in throughout. Unlike human hair, their hair does not stop growing at the top of their neck, instead continuing to grow down their back in a furry ruff, ending at the base of their spine. Bushy eyebrows that match their hair are common and only get bushier with age, but they tend to struggle with facial hair. Possumfolk that can grow facial hair often choose not to, as their facial hair grows the same way the rest of their hair grows. Though they have human faces, some possum folk sport longer, upturned noses and larger teeth. They can have any eye color. The most unique thing about the Possumfolk is their prehensile tails. These dexterous tails help the Possumfolk with balance, so much so that they’ve become almost legendary. Despite what you might have heard, Possumfolk cannot swing around with their tail or hang upside down from limbs or rafters. These pinkish, soft, gray-haired appendages cannot lift or hold heavy things, but they are long enough to wrap around their body and are pinkish in color, covered in very light, soft gray hair. Possumfolk Traits As a possumfolk, you have the following lineage traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and one other ability of your choice increases by 1. Age. Possumfolk age and mature similarly to humans, reaching adulthood in their late teens and living to be 80-100 years old. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and one other language of your choice. Size. Possumfolk, like humans, vary in height with ranges from 4 - 7 feet. Your size is medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. You also have a climbing speed equal to your walking speed. Lethal Toxin-Neutralizing Factor. You are immune to poison damage and have advantage on saving throws against being poisoned. Play Dead. When you take damage, as a reaction, you can choose to Play Dead. When you do, make a Charisma (Deception) check. Each hostile creature within 60 feet of you with a lower passive Perception than what you rolled believes that you are dead and will not attempt to attack you while you are playing dead. Any hostile creature outside of this range or within range that can’t see you automatically fails this check. On your next turn, if you haven’t taken any damage, you can expend half of your movement to stand up, regaining a number of hit points equal to one hit die plus your Constitution modifier. Creatures that can detect life are not affected by this trait. Prehensile Tail. You can use your tail to help you balance and to hold items and weapons. You have advantage on saving throws against being knocked prone and can hold weapons that have the light property with your tail. You cannot attack with weapons held by your tail. At your GM’s discretion, you can use an action to improvise with your tail. While improvising with your tail, any check that you might need to make will be a Dexterity (Acrobatics) check.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Divination Illustrations

**book**: The Shrouded Coast

