# Primordial Scions

**description**: The dagger glints in the air, a silent oncoming death aimed for the young prince’s spine. Before it can strike the child’s back, his nursemaid snatches it out of the air, furious grey eyes snapping up to meet the gaze of the assassin. “Miss Mawcy?” the young prince babbles—but the assassin does not look down at his target. “Oh, Hells.” Fearful eyes locked on the nursemaid, the assassin steps back as she moves forward, the prince’s toys clattering around their feet. He gags on the threat he tries to speak, hurled into the air, unseen forces dragging him from the luxurious carpet. From the dark ceiling, the whites of his terrified eyes flash. She slams him down into the plush floor. A crushing weight descends on the assassin—unable to stand, he kneels before the nursemaid and her eerily calm expression. He grates out hoarse words, panicked, to his allies on the balcony. “She’s a primordial! Run, she’s—” “Look away, Your Highness,” the nursemaid says quietly, her hand snapping out. The assassins on the balcony are wrenched toward her, falling into a pile. The last thing they see is her form consumed in light. Few creatures can trace their ancestry back to the dawn of time, but primordial scions are inextricably tied to the first angels. As some of the oldest worldwalkers, these angels give their scion mortals a glimpse of the grand inner workings of the universe—the eternal clockwork of time, kismet, and the unknowable energies that connect the planes. These scions become agents of fate, working to nudge the world in the direction it’s supposed to go. Wells of Deep Magic Primordial scions are a striking example of deceptive appearances. They resemble humanoids until they tap into a deep well of power, in which their thrumming connection to the world’s beginning manifests. As they swing weapons, wield magic, and bring their might to bear, their connections to fate, time, gravity, and life itself quake the air around them. Their eyes become one single color of blinding light, their veins glow, or their voice reverberates deeply. They might hover for a few moments as they command their gravitational ties, blur as they seem to move through time, or cause tremors in the ground with each confident step. These qualities manifest as the height of a primordial scion’s power and the intensity of their drive. Unfortunate foes who face a primordial as they awaken are dismayed to realize that they’re confronting an ancient power made manifest. Agents as Adventurers Primordial scions are the great balancers of fate and time, but their methods vary immensely. For some, balance means taking a position of leadership and making decisions for those they lead that are in line with the fates and futures they see. For others, balance means a life of careful assassinations—ridding the world of liches, archmages, monsters, tyrants, and great evils that drag the world from the course it’s meant to take. And for others still, balance is achieved through fortune-telling or positions of faith—guiding individual lives as they become lost and confused—while others choose defense and counteraction, taking positions of protection over people who are destined to be important. These are but some of the ways that primordials protect the course of the world. The realms benefit from having so many invisible tacticians at play, covering so many facets and creating an infinite web of safety against encroaching darkness. Primordials who are adventurers could find their destiny in fulfilling a prophecy with their party, protecting allies with their own fateful roles, or hunting down a cosmic evil. Cosmic Quarrels Celestial beings attuned to fate don’t forsee false events, but that doesn’t mean they can’t interpret the future in different ways. It’s possible that a primordial scion may disagree with their divine guide in an interpretation over fate’s intent, as they, too, have old magic thrumming in their veins. They may feel, think, or sense a different future meant for the world, or believe that fate has schemes at play underneath what is plainly visible. A primordial scion’s power isn’t dependent on their connection with their Celestial progenitor. They can disagree and even fight to help tip the world in the way they think things may fall, but they never lose their connection with the deep magic of their birthright. However, when a primordial pushes the world toward a future they desire rather than one decreed by fate, other scions act against that maverick. If a Celestial feels the fate of the world is threatened, they send a primordial scion to act in their name—or to descend on the iconoclast for a divine clash that bards will write about for centuries. Primordial Scions Traits Your primordial scion has the following traits. Ability Score Increase Your Constitution score increases by 2, and one other ability score of your choice increases by 1. Age Primordial scions mature at the same rate as humans, but as some of the oldest scions to exist, they can live up to 250 years. Alignment As agents of fate, primordial scions work for the ultimate good of the world’s course—but that can lead them to believe that the ends justify the means. They tend toward good or neutral, but their decisions can manifest as chaotic, lawful, or firmly between the two. Manipulate Gravity You can manipulate one of the oldest forces in the world: gravity. As a bonus action, you can cause a creature you can see within 60 feet of you to make a Strength saving throw. The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus. On a failed save, you can move that creature up to 10 feet in any direction, including upward. You can use this trait a number of times equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Divine Arbiter Starting at 3rd level, you can use your action to unleash the divine energy within yourself, heightening the natural effects around you as you become an avatar of world magic itself. Your transformation lasts for 1 minute or until you end it as a bonus action. During it, as a reaction, you can cause one creature you can see within 30 feet of you to reroll its damage dice after it makes a successful attack. The creature must use the new rolls. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 11

