# Promethean

**description**: “I can’t say I blame the Spacers for leaving. Earth had too many of its own problems to pay attention to theirs. Some say though, that the path they chose is a fine line between the best of human intentions and the worst of our ambitions.” — Jan Forrester, human pilot Once considered part of the Human race, they were a society of space explorers, miners, colonists, scientists, and settlers. Though the Earth could never be denied as their place of origin, the blue planet is no longer considered their “home.” Adopting the name of a figure of legend, they have forged themselves into a new race of beings. They are evolved. They are awakened. They are Prometheans. Same Make, New Model Before the Sol System became part of the Sorium Accord, many of the humans that lived and worked in the space colonies performed genetic enhancements upon themselves and their people. Though commonplace, many of the alterations were minor, specifically purposed to assist in survival against the harshness of the void. It was not long before many of the space colonists viewed their Earth neighbors as pampered and weak, while those upon the Earth viewed the colonists as conceited and ignorant. For all the efforts of human societies to shed their societal prejudices, they simply managed to evolve them to expand beyond the confines of their world. The colonists did less and less to help with Earth’s problems and vice versa, to the point where it was almost as if there were two different human races. The Final Schism The colonists and surface-folk had developed a truce during the legendary X-Mark conflict that erupted between Earth’s nations when the Crucible was first discovered. Their space miners harvested much of the sorium, their scientists soon discovering how to further genetically modify their own traits. These newly discovered methods gave their people newfound hereditary traits, as well as some hindrances. Still, the space colonies had never forgotten the generations spent on the sidelines of Earth’s governments. When the Sorium Accord was signed, they chose to separate from the rest of their people, officially naming themselves prometheans and establishing a society based on organizational roles on the planet Ondus. Perfecting the Gods’ Design With their own evolution and survival at stake, this new society focused on adapting themselves to their new environment and homeworld. Throughout the last century, the newly formed prometheans have strived to control their own stages of growth as a species. At an early age, each are subjected to genetic modifications. Once a promethean reaches their young adult years, they go through a final process that has come to be called the “Chrysalis,” named after the machine used for the procedure. This process determines what type of promethean they will become. This focus on particular enhancements, however, limits their evolution to science. With this in mind, much of the versatility that is prominent in other humans is greatly diminished. Physically, a promethean’s outer appearance is not much different from a human. Their builds are similar and they still retain the same broad variety of skintone, complexion, and eye color. The biggest difference is that such things can now be programmed instead of left to chance. Aside from silvery roots, hair color still varies for prometheans of the crescent, while the fire-blooded are limited to deep browns and reds. Promethean Names Abandoning most of their human identity, the prometheans also established their own families and genetic lineages. Some of the family names are simple variants of those carried by their human ancestors, while others have completely changed. In recent years, the given names for promethean children have also varied greatly, no longer influenced by Earth history or culture. Male Names: Bareino, Cyphus, Daviel, Fiano, Idran, Jalan, Katar, Kyrian, Ledra, Malor, Palarm, Raegar, Salenkis, Thartan, Vesio Female Names: Aimeri, Auriane, Covalla, Delinia, Jessia, Kymber, Melisi, Nova, Ovara, Retalia, Seina, Ulaire, Verela, Wynna, Yanlee Clan Names: Artemia, Corvinus, Falwren, Hexstar, Kaperia, Praxus, Sartori, Thurnos, Ultro, Zhavel Promethean Traits Prometheans share a few common traits before undergoing the Chrysalis. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2. Age. Prometheans have yet to discover the balance between extending their years and adapting their bodies to the rigors of their new home. Thus, they still reach adulthood in their late teens and live to about 100 years. Alignment. A young society, prometheans often take caution to the wind, often leaning toward a chaotic alignment. This, however is a mere tendency as there are still prometheans of all personality types. Size. Like their human kin, height and weight varies but retain a size of Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. Most prometheans gain this trait at a young age, sometimes even passed along through their parents. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were in dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common and one other language of your choice. Sub-species. Prometheans become one of two types after they pass the Chrysalis into adulthood. Subraces Crescent Fire-Blooded The Aberrant: Perfect Imperfections In extremely rare circumstances, the process of the Chrysalis produces a different form of promethean. Called aberrants, they emerge with horrible deformities and are often driven mad. Most, however, are also gifted with dangerous abilities. If not euthanized, they are often treated as societal outcasts, forced into the dregs of promethean society.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

