# Quickstep

**description**: Quicksteps were among the servitors the shadow fey brought with them when they first came to the Shadow Realm. Like the shadow fey, quicksteps are innately resilient to the corruption that infuses the area, and they embrace life in the courts with aplomb. Most quicksteps have a fondness for finery and feel right at home amid the riches of court life. As their name implies, quicksteps possess a natural affinity for speed, which makes them exquisitely qualified for two favored shadow fey pastimes: sabotage and dueling. Quicksteps are rarely found outside the fey courts but have thriving communities within many of the courts, most notably in the Court of Midnight Teeth and the Court of Winter's Love. Yet quicksteps are not immune to the wanderlust most fey experience. These small fey make for skilled and efficient adventurers and are typically welcome in any company hoping to traverse the dangerous Shadow Realm. Quickstep Names Quicksteps like to adopt names that are flashy, memorable, and sound intriguing when announced before a duel. Typically, these are evocative descriptive words or nature themes. Example Names: Birch, Bolt, Crimson, Dandy, Double Time, Echo, Glory, Hotspur, Indigo, Starburst, Zephyr. Quickstep Traits Your quickstep heritage is apparent in a variety of traits you share with other quicksteps. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Charisma score increases by 1. Age. Quicksteps have remarkably short lifespans compared to other fey. Quicksteps mature around 10 years and live up to 50 years. Alignment. Due to their association with the shadow fey and their legendary love of competitions, quicksteps have dark reputations, but they are rarely of evil alignment. Many quicksteps have a mischievous, even impetuous, streak that pushes them toward chaotic or neutral alignments. Size. Your size is Small. Speed. Your base walking speed is 50 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put you to sleep. Nimble. You have proficiency in the Acrobatics and Sleight of Hand skills. Startling Speed. Your movements are so swift that you are almost invisible when in motion. If you move at least 10 feet on your turn, attack rolls against you have disadvantage until the start of your next turn. This feature does not function if you are incapacitated or restrained. You can use this ability a number of rounds per day equal to your level. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Elvish and Umbral.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

