# Rakin

**description**: “Stole this!? You think I STOLE this? No no no... it was on discount. The five finger discount. Look! A distraction!” - Harried Houdinky, Voleur Extraordinaire Yells and chuckles are common sounds around the home of any rakin (RACK-in) thanks to their shared love language: pranks. From sewer-side burrows to palatial penthouses, wattle-and-daub huts to intricate treetop villages, rakin can be found at all levels of society, a product of their ingeniousness and habit of getting into trouble. One is rarely bored around a rakin. Deific Origins The mistaken spawn of a passionate tryst between deities of trickery and nature, rakin hold a deep affinity for both domains. Since their creation, they have had little contact with either god30, learning to rely on their own wits to survive. Trickery. As rakin society progressed, their culture grew to value trickery and subterfuge. Good-natured pranks sprang from their paws as instinctively as breathing. Honed against the fearsome beasts of the forest, this innate talent to deceive helped the rakin bloom as a civilisation. Tales are still told of how Mack Gyver fought off a rampaging owlboar with nought but a goodberry , a silver needle, and a pig’s bladder. Pranks. Rakin politics, religion, and interpersonal relationships revolve around the idea of practical jokes. An atmosphere of one-up-manship and lighthearted merriment suffuses all of their wheelings and dealings. Even when faced with the most horrid of circumstances, a rakin’s first instinct is to crack a joke. Ideological Chasm After centuries of living in chaotic mirth, an ideological battle split rakin culture in two when they first made contact with other humanoids. Many of the rakin were intrigued by cities—forests of stone and steel; organized, yet unpredictable, and full of opportunity. The elders forbade them to interact, alleging such civilization to be directly counter to the chaos that nature intended, the principle upon which rakin culture was built. The debacle spiralled into a full-on feud between the opposing rakin factions, sundering the once united race. The urkin broke with tradition and followed their ambition into the cities, whilst the tanukin remained in their indigenous forests, adhering to their ancestral ways. Rakin Traits Rakin share a number of traits in common with each other. Ability Score Increase . Your Dexterity score increases by 2. Age . Rakin age slightly quicker than humans, reaching adulthood by 14. They live to be around 70 years old. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and one other language of your choice. Size . Rakin are between 3 and a half to 4 feet tall. They have light gaits but sturdy frames, weighing between 50 and 90 pounds. Your size is Small. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet . Darkvision . You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern colour in darkness, only shades of grey. Deft Climber . You have a climbing speed equal to your walking speed. Subraces . The physical and cultural differences that arose after the rakin’s schism produced three subraces: the urkin, the posskin, and the tanukin. Choose one of these subraces. Urkin Posskin Tanukin

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

