# Ratatosk

**description**: In recent decades, the squirrel-like beings called ratatosk have grown bored with simply safeguarding the World Tree and have decided to more actively battle corruption in the Shadow Realm. Being exuberant sentinels against all things evil—and having large personalities—ratatosks are often at odds with many of the Shadow Realm natives. Ratatosks are insatiable tricksters. Sharing gossip from across the planes, they delight in learning secrets and spreading those tidbits of information in mischievous ways. Resembling squirrels with sleek fur and small tusks, they form close matriarchal familial units called drays within larger communities called scurries. More adventurous ratatosks often act as planar guides and guardians, though it is not uncommon to find squirrel-folk offering their services as couriers, thieves, or even spies. Ratatosk Names The ratatosk make no differentiation between male and female names. These names tend to be short, but highly respected families occasionally add infixes like -ee- or -ekke- to create longer names. Ratatosks who dwell in other planes will sometimes take regional names. Example Forenames: Chiringa, Daresh, Ekirp, Ekkitta, Kerasil, Najuta, Orrin, Skirekkeret, Tiptup, Turorri. Example Surnames: Brightsong, Bristletooth, Flitpaw, Jumptwig, Silentleaf, Wisewhisker. Ratatosk Racial Traits Your ratatosk heritage is apparent in a variety of traits you share with other ratatosks. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2, but your Strength score decreases by 2. Age. Ratatosk reach adulthood at age 10 and, due to their celestial nature, live up to 180 years. Alignment. Ever curious and delighting in unpredictability, ekorre ratatosks gravitate toward chaotic alignments as they view laws as vague suggestions at best. The tradvakt tend to be slightly more focused and lawful in their thinking. Both groups tend toward good, placing value on doing the right thing, though some individuals lean more toward their darker impulses. Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet, and you have a climb speed of 10 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Grounded Celestial. You are descended from celestials, but you are strongly attuned to the mortal world. Though you are a humanoid, you are still susceptible to effects that target celestials. Sharp Tusks. Your sharp tusks are natural weapons, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, you deal 1 piercing damage plus 1d4 psychic damage. Telepathic. You can speak telepathically to any creature you can see, provided the creature is within a number of feet of you equal to 10 times your level. You don't need to share a language with the creature for it to understand your telepathic utterances, but the creature must be able to understand at least one language. Languages. You can understand, read, and write Celestial and Common, but you speak via Telepathy. Subraces. There are two main ratatosk subraces. The wily ekorre and the brave tradvakt. Choose one subrace below and apply the listed traits. Ekorre Tradvakt

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

