# Salari

**description**: “Oh hey, I’m Glung, this is Plont, who are you? Gosh, you’re so big, you must have been eatin’ a lotta squishers, huh? What cave do you come from?” Orem and Falk looked at one another. “Can…you hear that?” “I…is it that lizard?” “Hey why are you noisin’ with your glom holes? Do you not just talk in your bonker? That’s so weird. Hey what’s that scrizzly stuff comin’ out your face, can I have some? Hey wait come back, where you going don’t you wanna stay for some splishers?” Plont and Glung watched as the two figures beat a hasty retreat. “…I don’t think they wanna stay for splishers, Glung.” “Yeah, I guess not. Maybe I wasn’t friendly enough, I’ll try harder next time.” “Yeah maybe.” “Hey Plont, how wide can you open your glom hole I can get mine pretty wide see blaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa…” “Oh yeah, that is pretty wide, good job.” Produced over centuries as ordinary cave salamanders slowly absorbed the cosmic energies emitted by Vaz’kin’rai, salari are innocent, selfless, and curious creatures that enjoy the simple pleasures in life – glomming on a splisher or squisher, checking their Rock, or having a keekon with their friends and loved ones. Physiology Standing approximately two to three feet tall at adulthood, salari tend to have pale, semi-translucent skin and white eyes as a result of the dark cave environment they normally call home. Most salari have some form of head adornment, either a set of gill stalks like those of an axolotl, or other frills and fins. Most salari weigh about as much as a small human child, averaging 30 to 40 pounds, and are bipedal, pattering around on stumpy legs. Webbed feet and hands help them swim through water – all the better for catching splishers. Astral Influence Though they do not know it, salari owe their existence to ‘The Big Smooth’, a mysterious metal doorway that appeared suddenly centuries ago, leaking cosmic energy into the surroundings that steadily accelerated the salari’s mental capacity until they developed intelligence and even limited telepathy. The Big Smooth’s influence has led to a curious civilization where the carefree salari have a personality much like children, concerned with little other than enjoying themselves and playing with their friends. Their telepathic abilities meanwhile ensure that secrets and lies are absent entirely from salari culture, it being extremely difficult if not utterly impossible to hide the truth from each other when they spend so much time in contact with each other’s thoughts. As a result, salari give freely and wholly of their trust to all, something that an outsider could easily take advantage of. Closed Caves Developing in a sealed ecosystem has led salari to become curious, friendly, and utterly oblivious to danger. Life without predators means that the idea of enemies or those that would do them harm is utterly alien to the salari, and those few that have been sighted elsewhere have trouble looking after themselves in a world much more dangerous than the one they are accustomed to. Thankfully, this is rarely a problem for salari as they tend to remain within their cave, oblivious to what lies beyond. Every now and then, however, a salari is overcome with curiosity and makes the difficult climb to the one exit from their home – a small crack in the ceiling above Splisher Lake… Distant Cousins Although the salari originate in the cave system near Vaz’kin’rai, there have been reports of similar creatures in other places within Tyllia. It is unknown whether these originate from salari escaping from Splisher Lake, are a mere coincidence, or Vaz’kin’rai is but one of multiple places where the Starscape’s influence bleeds into the Mortal Fold… I believe further investigation is required here. I find it a remarkable coincidence that two separate groups would evolve simultaneously, but equally feel that given the curious nature of these salari, it would be deeply surprising if they had ignored the nearby settlement when leaving. Perhaps when your research is finished, you can investigate the Blackford Cavern site. Salari Names Salari names are simple and ungendered, usually short and with an emphasis on ‘wet’ sounds like ‘l’ and ‘g’. Salari Names: Blung, Clum, Flib, Glipp, Hoob, Ligg, Omp, Plorm, Splark, Wopp Salari Traits As a salari, you gain the following traits: Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 2, and another by 1. You cannot increase scores past 20 in this manner. Age. Salari reach maturity around 3 years old and live to be approximately 30. Alignment. Salari are selfless and friendly, but aren’t particularly rules-oriented or overly chaotic, leading most salari to be neutral good. Size. Salari stand approximately two to three feet tall. Your size is Small. Speed. You have a base walking speed of 25 feet. “AGHTHBLPLP! Too Bright!” You have disadvantage on attack rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight while you or the target of the attack or Wisdom (Perception) check are in direct sunlight. Cavedweller. You have darkvision within a range of 120 feet. You can see in dim light within that range is if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light, but cannot see colour in darkness. Cosmic Influence. You can communicate telepathically with a creature within 15 feet of you. You do not need to share a language with the creature, but the creature must be capable of understanding at least one language. Grabber of Splishers. You have a swim speed equal to your walking speed and can breathe air and water. The Rock. You begin play with your very own Rock, a prized but perfectly mundane possession that must be checked regularly for any changes. You may use an action to check your Rock. When you make an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, you may choose to gain advantage on it if you have checked your Rock earlier that day. The Rock can only provide this benefit once per day, recharging at the end of a long rest. If you lose your Rock, you are able to find a new Rock as part of a long rest, although your previous Rock will always have a special place in your heart. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Salari.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 16222

**publisher**: Animancer

**book**: Enchiridion Vaz’kin’rai

