# Satarre

**description**: The satarre call themselves the “devourers” or “those who end the world” due to their association with Nidhogg, the World-Eater. Others call them “Children of Nidhogg” to avoid drawing their direct attention and, frankly, out of fear for the attention. The satarre are rarely kind or compassionate; they are, at best, devoted, zealous servants of the gods of death and oblivion. More often they function directly as servants of Nidhogg, the dragon gnawing at the roots of the World Tree. Some believe the satarre have a distant connection to the dragonborn, though both sides deny any such affiliation. Some Lazy, Some Striving The satarre are powerful and wise creatures often found serving in dark cults or (less often) warning other races of the plans of such cults and seeking to prevent some disaster by prophecy, guidance, and cunning. Most of them strive to destroy the worlds of mortals and bring about the end of all things. They are relentless in the pursuit of knowledge, of the veneration of dark gods, and in their swift action to pursue any goal that might topple the World Tree and end a corrupt age. They are often advisors to cultists and evil priests. However, some of the satarre are simply in no such hurry to bring on the end of all things. Other satarre call these renegade satarre the latje, “the slothful ones.” Though not outwardly different from other satarre, the latje often see little purpose in destruction for its own sake, or they see their role as warning others of the dangers of the dark gods and the widening grasp of the cold, uncaring Void. Most latje are exiled from their communities or seek the company of other races, rather than remaining close to the world-ending ambitions of most of their kind. Their numbers have always been small. Planar Travelers The satarre know the many worlds and their connections, and they are familiar with shadow, planar doorways, and similar arcana. They are comfortable speaking with demons, devils, and heralds of darkness, for their people have long been those who turn grand and maleficent visions into plans suitable for action. All satarre have a deep hatred of the volmar (also called the Children of Yggdrasil [see Creature Codex ]) and the ravenfolk (see Midgard Heroes Handbook ), for these two have long opposed the satarre’s efforts on behalf of darkness and destruction. Strong Void Speakers The satarre are speakers of Void Speech, the language of the Great Old Ones and of creatures that live in the darkness between stars, and the whispers and invocations of dark gods that drive others mad seem not to trouble the satarre. The satarre are a friend to the darakhul, tieflings, and vampires, and satarre and derro always seem to understand one another. Satarre Names Satarre names are often similar to names of the cultures where they are raised, though satarre raised on the planes or in cults of darkness or death tend toward names common to those planes or that invoke the cult’s tenets. Names in Void Speech are also common and are presented below. All satarre are given cult names, indicating which dark god their lives were dedicated to at their naming day. Such names preface the name of the cult or god with “ai-” and sometimes shorten the cult or god’s name to two or three syllables. Most continue to serve or at least pray to these gods as adults, with varying degrees of piety. However, the latje satarre no longer use their cult names, preferring instead more neutral terms such as “ai-Vellec” (of the World) or “ai-Rinska” (the Messenger). Male Names: Aggorret (eater), Denahrek (servant), Medloss (binder), Mörkothr (darkness), Narkot (gnawer), Pälsore (slaver), Vessar (blooddrinker), Rabefress (slayer) Female Names: Atlessa (jewel), Binulett (scout), Frizel (scribe), Ixa (blade), Miskra (maggot), Respy (builder), Unskappa (wisdom), Unterra (doom) Satarre Traits Your satarre heritage is apparent in a variety of traits you share with other satarre. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2, and your Intelligence score increases by 1. Age. Satarre grow quickly, walking soon after hatching and reaching the development of a 15-year-old human by age 6. They maintain the same appearance until about 50, then begin a rapid decline. Satarre often die violently, but those who live longer survive to no more than 65 years of age. Alignment. Satarre are born with a tendency toward evil akin to that of rapacious dragons, and, when raised among other satarre or darakhul, they are usually evil. Those raised among other cultures tend toward the norm for those cultures. Size. Satarre are tall but thin, from 6 to 7 feet tall with peculiar, segmented limbs. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. Thanks to your dark planar parentage, you have superior vision in darkness. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. A Friend to Death. You have resistance to necrotic damage. Keeper of Secrets. You have proficiency in the Arcana skill, and you have advantage on Intelligence (Arcana) checks related to the planes and planar travel. In addition, you have proficiency in one of the following skills of your choice: History, Insight, and Religion. Carrier of Rot. You can use your action to inflict rot on a creature you can see within 10 feet of you. The creature must make a Constitution saving throw. The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus. A creature takes 1d4 necrotic damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails the saving throw also rots for 1 minute. A rotting creature takes 1d4 necrotic damage at the end of each of its turns. The target or a creature within 5 feet of it can use an action to excise the rot with a successful Wisdom (Medicine) check. The DC for the check equals the rot’s Constitution saving throw DC. The rot also disappears if the target receives magical healing. The damage for the initial action and the rotting increases to 2d4 at 6th level, 3d4 at 11th level, and 4d4 at 16th level. After you use your Carrier of Rot trait, you can’t use it again until you complete a short or long rest. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and one of the following: Abyssal, Infernal, or Void Speech. Void Speech is a language of dark gods and ancient blasphemies, and the mere sound of its sibilant tones makes many other creatures quite uncomfortable.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

