# Satyr (Thylean)

**description**: Satyrs are a race of fey creatures with a strong link to the Feywild and all of the creatures and races that come from that place. They prefer forested wilderness but are not afraid to enter towns and cities to enjoy the company and other benefits of civilization. Goat Men Satyrs have the lower body of a goat and the upper body of an elf. A pair of goat-like horns sprout from their foreheads. These horns can range from small spikes to huge horns worthy of a mountain goat. In addition to a full head of hair, satyrs grow fur on their arms, legs, and torsos. Some satyrs grow less fur, and many choose to carefully shave the hair from their arms and body. They can have brown, black, blonde, red, grey, or white hair. Their skin color ranges from dark to pale. Hedonistic Satyrs are in tune with their emotions to a degree that can be disturbing to other races. They want to experience everything: happiness, sadness, love, rage, etc. The only thing they avoid is boredom. They love music, wine, and dancing. They also enjoy an interest in carnal pleasures, and they are not afraid to share a bed with any of the other intelligent races. Music Lovers Satyrs love to listen to music. They will happily spend long stretches of time both playing and composing new music. They are known to travel great distances to hear new songs, instruments, and poetry. Satyrs in Thylea Satyrs don’t have the same strained relationship with the civilized races of Thylea that the centaurs do. Satyrs can be found in many towns and villages throughout Thylea, as well as the great city of Mytros. They are attracted to the abundance of experiences that civilization provides: the food, the wine, and most especially the music. The civilized races of Thylea are suspicious of satyrs, for there are many stories of satyrs seducing and corrupting both the old and the young alike. Satyr Names Satyrs have names that they draw from legends and myths—and from the powers that rule over the Feywild. Male Names : Adrastos, Aeolus, Brontes, Castor, Cephalus, Glaucus, Helios, Iacchus, Kreios, Lycus, Melanthios, Okeanos, and Proteus. Female Names : Acantha, Astraea, Briseis, Clio, Erato, Harmonia, Ianthe, Jocasta, Melete, Phaedra, Phoebe, Selene, and Tethys. Satyr Traits Satyrs have the following traits. Ability Score Increase . Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Charisma score increases by 1. Age . Satyrs mature quickly, reaching adulthood by their early teens. They can live for several centuries. Alignment . Most satyrs are chaotic neutral. They live for pleasure, sensual experience, and excitement. There are some satyrs who have developed empathy for others and tend toward good. Other satyrs have grown cruel and enjoy causing painful emotions. Size . Satyrs range from 4 to 5 feet in height. They weigh between 100 and 150 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and Sylvan. Fey Heritage . You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened, and spells can’t put you to sleep. Memory for Music . You have proficiency with one instrument of your choice. You have advantage on Performance checks made with the selected instrument. You can also memorize and perform any song after hearing it only once. Enchanting Music . You can cast the minor illusion cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast the sleep spell once with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. When you reach 5th level, you can also cast the suggestion spell with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. Casting these spells requires access to an instrument that you are proficient with. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for these spells.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

