# Saurian

**description**: “Did not learned men, too, hold, till within the last twenty-five years, that a flying dragon was an impossible monster? And do we not now know that there are hundreds of them found fossil up and down the world? People call them Pterodactyles: but that is only because they are ashamed to call them flying dragons, after denying so long that flying dragons could exist.” —Charles Kingsley, The Water Babies Like their behemoth kin, the saurians are relics of an ancient time and unknown to nearly all inhabitants of the worlds of D&D. As a people, saurians struggle to uphold time honored traditions while they maintain the ruins of their once opulent city states. Individually, each saurian must decide for themselves if they will maintain their culture in its long decline or leave their ancestral home to find a new life. Kin to Behemoths Saurians tower over other humanoid races. The size of the saurian race is proof, saurians say, of their mandate of rulership over the younger races and their connection to the primordial origins of the world. When their foot falls shake the earth and echo off the hills, even the skeptical are inclined to give their point consideration. Their appearance is further evidence of their ancient and titanic origins. All saurians resemble the behemoths commonly believed by scholars to have ruled the world in prehistoric times. Different saurian subraces resemble different species of behemoths but all are covered with a scaled or feathered hide, possess large black eyes, and have a tail. The End of an Era The reign of the saurians was long but so far in the distant past that none but their own scholars even recall the details of it. In the modern age, saurians remain in ancient, gilded cities deep in the forgotten places of the world. Hidden away in these lands lost to time, saurians remain committed to the culture and traditions of their ancestors. Even as their numbers grow fewer with each passing decade, saurians still look to the past rather than embrace the future. In that bygone age, the saurian people ruled sprawling empires from capitols littered with gold and precious gems, enlightened by the doctrine of their religious philosophy, and pioneered a great number of the mundane and mystical arts practiced today. At least, that’s what the saurians claim. With their numbers shrinking since before recorded time, some saurians embrace a fatalistic stance that their race was born dying. Breaking With Tradition Saurians are an isolationist and monocultural people and have been for the length of recorded history. When a saurian becomes an adventurer, they leave the highly structured society they come from and embrace a world of dizzying freedom. A saurian might take this dramatic leap because they reject the caste they’ve been born into, they’ve committed a great crime, or they’re the last survivor of a once great city-state. Whatever the reason, saurians typically know little of the customs of other people and often struggle to adopt new ways of thinking. Saurians serve adventuring parties well as historians. Saurians are long lived as individuals and, collectively, look to the past for answers to present challenges. A saurian might recall the details of how a great force of evil was contained or defeated long ago, or remember the solution to an ancient riddle. Saurian Names Every saurian is given a personal name at birth. In adolescence the saurian is taught the personal names of all of its ancestors and these form the saurian’s extended name. Saurians traditionally greet others by announcing their personal name and as much of their extended name as they can remember. Between saurians it is considered rude to list a longer extended name than someone older or in a higher social status. Ankylos Names: Bhatha, Bhima, Charma, Gada, Gadadhar, Khethah, Laguda, Sainya Deinony Names: Babila, Javana, Pathika, Rajaduta, Rewa, Turanya, Vanik, Yathu Plesios Names: Aayaata, Annapurna, Karshakka, Maalaakaara, Ogha, Puura, Riddhi, Samudra Pteradas Names: Aakaash, Aksha, Daksha, Pataga, Silpa, Vihaga, Yantram, Yukti Sarchos Names: Dawati, Hantaram, Makara, Nakra Raja, Peck, Tanupa, Udadhi, Urmi Triceras Names: Acharya, Agamya, Aparavid, Chanaakya, Gyana, Itihaasa, Katha, Vidvat Tyrannos Names: Abhiraj, Adhip, Bhayan, Mahesh, Mahiipat, Rajaan, Upadravin, Virochan Saurian Traits Your saurian shares an inheritance of traits and abilities with other saurians, passed down by your ancestors since time immemorial. Age. Saurians mature slower than humans do, reaching maturity at the age of 100, and can live up to a thousand years. Alignment. Saurians are creatures of habit and custom and are almost always lawful. Saurians have an even temperament and a dislike for trouble, making them disinclined toward good or evil. Size. Saurians are between 6 to 8 feet tall and weigh between 350 and 450 lbs. A saurian’s size varies by subrace with Pteradas being the smallest and lightest, Plesios being the tallest, and Ankylos being the heaviest. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30. Long Memory. You have proficiency in the History skill. Powerful Build. You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Draconic. The saurian dialect of Draconic is obvious to other speakers of the language and unless you learn Draconic again from another source, your speech in Draconic will always be notable for its saurian idiosyncrasies. Subrace. Saurian society is divided into castes primarily determined by a saurian’s subraces. Ankylos are expected to become a member of the military or city guard. Deinony serve their people as ambassadors and traveling merchants. Plesios are depended on as farmers and explorers of saurian society. Pteradas are known for their creativity and expertise as artisans. Sarchos are found almost exclusively in coastal cities and often make up whatever naval forces a saurian city-state has. Triceras are encouraged to become scholars and bureaucrats. Tyrannos are the leaders of saurian society, as likely to be feared as they are admired. Ankylos Deinony Plesios Pteradas Sarchos Triceras Tyrannos

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

