# Sea Spawn

**description**: In the Forgotten Realms, sea spawn are natives of a string of islands called Purple Rocks. The Rocklanders venerate the kraken Slarkrethel by throwing their newborns into the ocean, where they are claimed by the King of the Trackles Depths. The infants undergo a magical transformation that turns them into sea spawn, though they rarely manifest their mutations until old age. When the mutation occurs, their anatomy warps into a horrifying manifestation of the deep; barnacle covered skin, coral spurs sprouting from limbs, shark-like mouths, the variety of mutation seems endless. While most sea spawn venerate their creator after transformation, some turn against Slarkrethel for what it has done to them, seeking revenge against their old master. Sea Spawn Names Sea Spawn don’t take a new name when they undergo their transformation, meaning that those from Purple Rocks, where the majority are found, have Illuskan names. Sea Spawn Traits Your sea spawn character has the following traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2, and your Strength score increases by 1. Age. Sea spawn are humans that have been transformed by the kraken Slarkrethel. They are always over 60, and can live up to 120 years. Alignment. Due to the corruption of the kraken, sea spawn are almost always evil. Size. Sea spawn are similar in stature to humans. Your size is Medium. Speed. You base walking speed is 20 feet. You have swim speed of 30 feet. Limited Amphibiousness. You can breathe air and water, but need to be submerged in the sea at least once a day for 1 minute to avoid suffocating. Telepathic Resistance. You have resistance to psychic damage. In addition, you are immune to magic that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, determine whether you are lying, know your alignment, or know your creature type. Creatures can telepathically communicate with you only if you allow it. Piscine Anatomy. Part of you has been transformed through mutation. The DC for the mutations is 8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus. Choose one of the following: Mouth. You have a shark-like mouth which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with it, you deal piercing damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength modifier. Hair. You have poisonous quills instead of hair which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with it, you deal 1d6 poison damage. A creature hit by the attack must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. Arm. One of your arms is transformed into a tentacle, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with it, you deal bludgeoning damage equal to 1d4 plus your Strength modifier. A Medium or smaller creature hit by the attack is grappled (see escape DC above). Until this grapple ends, you can’t grapple another target with your tentacle. Underwater Adaptation. You ignore any drawbacks caused by an underwater environment. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Aquan and Common.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: JVC Parry

**book**: Call from the Deep

