# Sentient Bloodwork Automaton

**description**: Life is persistent and blood is its vessel. Even within metal veins and dead flesh, it nourishes and sustains. This chapter explains the heritages of such creatures that this animating essence has possible, fed, and marked; in Tolia, blood offers new beginnings. Sentient Bloodwork Automaton Many people think that death is the end, but it is a fresh start for bloodwork automatons. Bloodwork automatons are constructs given life by and fueled by the blood of the deceased people of Tolia. Some of them are unintelligent constructs, however some of them are no different from Tolia’s other residents. You are the latter. Bloodwork automatons are mostly created by the Kanrath and Cyherested governments. However, the state is not the only entity that can have an automaton. The nobility and the wealthy have also been known to have their own, not to mention the extremely talented scavengers or mad scientists who can build them with relatively limited resources as well. Origins of a Bloodwork Automaton Whether you were the lowest of the low or the highest of the high, a criminal or a hero, your blood now gives life to a whole new existence. Who you were is no longer important. Welcome to the fascinating world of bloodwork science. Looks of a Bloodwork Automaton Bloodwork automatons are genderless, their bodies may resemble a woman’s, or a man’s; both or neither. Their bodies are made of strong metals, and decorated with various designs, fitting the taste of their creators. Bloodwork Automatons in Society The common folk of Tolia do not take too kindly to bloodwork automatons. In general, they are deemed heartless machines, constructs that are only good for following orders and that cannot think for themselves, or simply “things” whose ideas are not worthy of consideration. However, these automatons’ role in society are of the utmost importance. They make the lives of many better thanks to their enhanced bodies and unnatural endurance. There are bloodwork automatons who’ve made a name for themselves, and become respected individuals in society, though one does not happen upon a bloodwork automaton of great repute every day. Sentient Bloodwork Automaton Traits Being a construct of blood provides you with the following features: Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2. Age. You die when your body ceases to function. You have no average lifespan. You do not age. However, your body slowly loses its functions if you do not treat it carefully. Once every year, you have to make sure that you see a technician and pay them 1000 KF/CS to make the necessary repairs. Otherwise you suffer 1 level of exhaustion until you get them done. Alignment. All sentient bloodwork automatons think for themselves, and can vary greatly in principle and deed. They thus can be of any alignment. Size. Sentient bloodwork automatons stand at 5 to 6 feet tall and average between 300 to 500 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Type. You are a construct. Automaton Health. Since you are a special type of construct, you can choose to spend one of your Hit Dice and regain a number of hit points equal to the number rolled plus your Constitution modifier. You can also be healed by spells specifically designed to heal automatons (p.156). Automaton Nature. Your body is made of metal, and you have no organs within. This nature grants you the following benefits. - You have advantage on saving throws against disease and being poisoned, and you have resistance to poison damage. Your body may be endurant against disease and poison, but you still function with blood. - You don’t need to eat, drink, or breathe. - You don’t need to sleep, and magic can’t put you to sleep. You can finish a long rest in 4 hours if you spend those hours in an inactive state. - You can’t wear armor on your body. However, your construct body provides you with a certain amount of protection, which is given in each subrace. If you are using a shield, you can apply the shield’s bonus as you normally would. Fueled by Blood. Although you do not need to eat or drink, your body requires a certain amount of blood to function effectively. Once per week, you have to refill the blood tanks within your body with an amount of blood worth 5 KF/CS for each level you have. Otherwise, you starve. Purpose of Creation. Since you are created for a specific purpose, you gain proficiency in a skill of your choice, which was actually the choice of your creator. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and one another language that your creator wants you to know. Subrace. Three main bloodwork automaton subraces can be found in Tolia: Scribe, Slayer, and Vanguard. Scribe Automaton As a scribe automaton, you are designed to memorize, to keep records, do calculations, and other kinds of scribing work. Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence score increases by 2. Extra Intelligent. You gain proficiency in a skill of your choice, and you can speak, read, and write one other language of your choice. Lightly Armored Body. Your body provides you with an AC of 12 + your Dexterity modifier (minimum of 12 AC). Slayer Automaton As a slayer automaton, you are designed to destroy your enemies. Your physical prowess can best even the greatest of athletes. Ability Score Increase. One of the following ability scores of your choice increases by 1: Strength or Dexterity. Extra Efficiency Protocol. You can take a bonus action to activate the Extra Efficiency Protocol. Once you do, the blood inside your body is used extra effectively for 1 minute, granting you extra power. For the duration, your successful weapon attacks deal an extra 1d4 damage of the weapon’s damage type. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest to use it again. Moderately Armored Body. Your body provides you with an AC of 14 + your Dexterity modifier (minimum of 14 AC). Vanguard Automaton As a vanguard automaton, you are designed to endure damage and protect others. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 1 more. Heavily Armored Body. Your body provides you with an AC of 16 + your Dexterity modifier (minimum of 16 AC). However, you have disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. Vanguard Protocol. You can take a bonus action to activate the Vanguard Protocol. For 1 minute, whenever a creature within 5 feet of you takes damage as a result of an attack, you can use your reaction to take the damage instead. Once you use this feature, you must finish a long rest to use it again.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Dream Realm Storytellers

**book**: Bloodpunk - A Guide to Tolia Campaign Setting

