# Shadow Goblin

**description**: Shadow goblins evolved to thrive in the Shadow Realm as servitors and allies of the shadow fey. In time, they founded their own city and have cut their own path. These goblins are closer to fey than they are to their monstrous cousins in the mortal lands, and they possess cunning dispositions that allow them to integrate into the shadow courts. They are often blue- or purple-skinned and with bright orange or yellow eyes. And they have a knack for blending into shadows. Good rogues and even better assassins, shadow goblins have a dark reputation but also delight in low humor, drunkenness, roughhousing and wrestling, and other feats of skill (which they often lose). Shadow goblins are masters of deception and learn from infancy to take advantage of those who would underestimate them. These creatures share the natural resistance shadow fey have to the corrupting influence of the Shadow Realm, and they demonstrate a surprising affinity for shadow weaving and lunar magic. Naturally, their knack for magic is something most shadow goblins keep as an advantageous secret. Shadow Goblin Names Individual names among the shadow goblins tend to be suggestive of either darkness or whimsy—or better yet, both—as those two facets play such important roles in their day-to-day lives. Many actually feel it a personal flaw to share a given name with anyone else, so they take great pains to name their children something entirely unique. Family names tend to focus much more on utility, another important facet to shadow goblins' lives, and are much more descriptive. Example Male Names: Bollair, Bruddaq, Desolay, Dessoto, Falko, Farsight, Fringo, Messerino, Picklo, Stinko, Thundero, Twisp. Example Female Names: Daniy, Jojoni, Lunara, Morrameko, Nona, Olara, Omagda, Pippi, Sihaddra, Tippita, Vellissa. Example Family Names: Bellringer, Butcherson, Candlesmith, Cloudchaser, Cooperson, Foxskinner, Glimmerfetch, Goldbiter, Ironbeater, Marshhound, Moonshine, Netmender, Potlicker, Potmaker, Seasalt, Shepherdsdottir, Skullsniffer, Tailshipper, Wargbender, Weaselwise, Weaverson. Shadow Goblin Traits You are a shadow goblin, forever changed by the Shadow Realm, setting you apart from most other goblins. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Charisma score increases by 1. Age. Shadow goblins reach adulthood at age 8 and can live up to 70 years. Alignment. Much like the shadow fey they coexist with, shadow goblins are not inherently evil, despite their reputations. Their natures are a constant balance between whimsy and being useful and productive. Shadow goblins are more likely to tend toward neutral good or neutral alignments. Size. Goblins are between 3 and 4 feet tall and weigh between 40 and 80 pounds. Your size is Small. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Quick Wit . You have proficiency in the Deception and Insight skills. Shadow Camouflage. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in dim light or darkness. Stink Eye. As an action, you can perform a combination of rude gestures and sounds to distract one creature you can see within 30 feet. If the target can hear and see you, it must make a Charisma saving throw (DC 8 + your Charisma ability modifier + your proficiency bonus). On a failure, it has disadvantage on the next ability check, attack roll, or saving throw it makes before the start of your next turn. Sunlight Sensitivity. You have disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, or whatever you are trying to perceive is in direct sunlight. Unseelie Blessing. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put you to sleep. Language. You can speak, read, and write Goblin and Umbral.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

