# Snowcap Adult

**description**: Snowcaps are a race descended from Humans who lived in the heights of Icehelm and the icy tundra of northern Ne’Oor. They are culturally and biologically distinguishable from neighboring populations of other races that have Human ancestry, although they are nearly indistinguishable by sight other than their style of dress. Due to the particularly harsh environment of often below-freezing temperatures, Snowcaps have adapted to living in the cold and making use of their natural surroundings for survival. As hunter-gatherers, their way of life is centered on hunting, raising large herd animals, and fishing, living off fatty meats and using the hides and furry pelts of what they hunt as outerwear and blankets to protect against freezing temperatures. Through generations of acclimation to the snow, Snowcaps have a natural tolerance for any cold temperature above freezing. While many Snowcap tribes are nomadic, searching for new areas where their animals can graze or finding others to trade goods with, most keep to their villages hidden in the icy hills, living in caves in the high reaches of Icehelm and the mountain passes. Hardy Hunters Culturally, traditional Snowcap life has adapted to an extremely cold, snowbound environment in which vegetation is almost nonexistent, trees are scarce, and caribou, sea mammals, and fish are the major food sources. These high-fat food sources also provide resources for illumination (burning oil), cooking oil, tools, and weapons made from bones. Grasses, tubers, roots, stems, berries, and seaweed are collected and preserved, depending on the season and location, but very little of these foods are consumed compared to the meat that is hunted. Most fruits and vegetables are nearly non-existent in the Snowcap diet, and those who venture to the marketplaces in villages and farmlands find these foods quite exotic and valuable. Because meat is their main source of food, Snowcaps are proficient at hunting, using harpoons and spears to kill seals and whales from the shores or in boats. Inland, Snowcaps learn to hunt caribou and other land animals with bows and arrows and how to ice-fish from a very young age. Snowcap Names One of the customs following the birth of a Snowcap infant is for a tribal elder to place a tiny ivory carving of a dragon into the baby’s mouth in the hope that this will protect the child from the dangers described above. After the ritual, their parents would venture outside, even in a snowstorm, and look to their surroundings for inspiration, convinced that DexMya will send a sign for a strong name. Thus, many children born in the winter have snow-themed names, while those born in spring or summer are named after other aspects of nature. Sample First Names : Alder, Aspen, Aura, Blaze, Caldar, Ember, Flurris, Fisher, Frost, Hawk, Holly, Hunter, Raven, Robin, Rowan, Storm, Vale, Winter, Wolf, Wren Sample Surnames : Alpsbreak, Firebright, Icewood, Lonebear, Spearman, Surefoot, Whalerider Snowcap Traits As a snowcap, you are genetically acclimated to cold weather and living with limited food sources. Ability Score Increase . Your Constitution score increases by 2. Age . Snowcaps reach physical maturity at the same age as most humans and are considered adult at about 18 years old. Alignment . The Snowcap people have historically maintained a neutral view on matters both inside and outside their tribe, focusing on survival of their own over continental altruism. While there have been some notably evil Snowcaps who have gone mad with solitude or hunger over the history of Ne’Oor, like most humans, they are naturally Good. Snowcap Wardlings always range from Lawful Good to full Neutral. Size . Snowcaps are generally a bit more robust in build, as their added layers of fat and muscle keep them warmer in cold temperatures. Their height is typical of normal humans, ranging from just under 5 feet to over 6 feet. If your older Wardling character is taller than 4 feet, their size is Medium as well, although most Snowcap children under 9 years old will be under 4 feet tall and are Small. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet, or 25 feet if you are Small sized. Snowborn . You have advantage on saving throws against magical cold. You are naturally adapted to cold climates and receive a +4 racial bonus on Constitution saving throws against natural cold, such as freezing temperatures. Snowcap Weapon Training . You have proficiency with the warhammer or harpoon and the long bow. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and Orcish. 

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

