# Specter

**description**: While the cosmic order dictates that the spirits of the dead are meant to travel to the afterlife, wherein they are judged and eventually reincarnated, some choose not to pass on. Whether they are benevolent spirits attempting to aid their comrades or fulfill some great purpose, malevolent specters hell-bent on punishing those who wronged them, or morally neutral ghosts with their own earthly attachments, specters are the subject of many folk tales in Rokugan. Sometimes, a swell of sentiment can even cause a living being to create a specter to pursue their repressed desires or try to fulfill dreams that the owner cannot. Physiology Specters are supernatural beings, but they appear to be living humans most of the time. However, there are certain telltale signs that a person might in fact be a specter. Failure to breathe for long periods of time, tendency to vanish and reappear at odd moments, and conspicuous lack of feet are all signs that more superstitious folk in Rokugan look for when considering whether someone is a specter. Specters can dispense with their corporeal form at will, fading into a mist, a gust of snow-flecked wind, or pale motes of fire before vanishing. However, doing so draws the specter further from the mortal coil, and returning from the brink can be difficult. Additionally, flagrant use of such powers is likely to attract the attention of the underworld bureaucrats responsible for the shepherding of souls—mazoku. Ghostly Pursuits Each spirit has its own reasons for existing, whether it desires to pass on but is trapped by its sentiments or persists so that it can achieve some goal. These goals are likely the key to the specter achieving the sense of fulfillment they need to move on to the afterlife. Specter Traits As a specter, you benefit from the following: Ability Score Increase . Choose two ability scores to increase by 1. Age . You might have died recently, or you might have lingered in the afterlife or the Mortal Realm for centuries. Size . You are roughly the size you were in life, which is Medium. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Ghostly Dispersal . When you are hit by an attack, you can spend your reaction to disperse your corporeal form, granting you resistance against that attack’s damage then causing you to fade into mist or motes of pale flame before vanishing entirely along with all items on your person. You can also spend your action to disperse. When dispersed, your creature type is undead instead of humanoid, you are invisible, and have immunity to all non-psychic damage and all conditions. If you were previously suffering a condition, you can remove it until you reincorporate. You cannot act directly upon your surroundings. You observe the world as if through a supernatural haze, which imposes disadvantage on your checks to perceive your surroundings may cause you to miss key details at the GM's discretion. You still occupy your previous position, but cannot be perceived by mundane senses. You can be seen with truesight or other abilities that can see through invisibility, and your presence in the general vicinity can be felt by the spiritually attuned, such as with a DC 14 Intelligence (Religion) check. Your only method of movement is a flying speed of 10 feet. You can move through solid objects of 1 inch or thinner, provided they are not warded against the passing of spirits, but if you end your turn inside of an object, you suffer 1d6 psychic damage. You cannot attack, perform invocations, or take any action other than to reincorporate yourself, returning to your physical form along with all of your items. Once you have dispersed and reincorporated, you cannot disperse again until you complete a short rest. Pull of the Afterlife . Being dispersed pulls you closer to the afterlife, and you start to slip from the mortal realm if dispersed too long. At the end of each of your turns, if you began the turn dispersed, you must use your action to reincorporate unless you choose to suffer 1d6 psychic damage, plus 1d6 additional psychic damage for each round you have delayed rematerializing beyond the first. If you are dispersed outside of a combat encounter, you suffer this increasing damage every minute you are dispersed instead. If your hit points are reduced to 0 this way, you count as being killed (see Queue of the Dead ). Queue of the Dead . You are not alive, so you cannot die in the traditional sense. However, if you are killed (in any of the usual manners a PC could be), you vanish back to the Realm of Waiting, leaving only your items behind. There, you must wait until your soul is judged and processed (which can take hundreds of years), or until you get another chance to escape (which can also take hundreds of years). Barring exceptional circumstances, being killed removes you from the campaign just as it would any other PC. Spiritual Anchor . During a long rest, you can form a spiritual bond with one willing living creature (such as another PC in your party, provided they are not also a mazoku or specter), designating that creature as your spiritual anchor. If you are within 30 feet of your spiritual anchor, you ignore your Pull of the Afterlife feature. Additionally, even while you are invisible due to being dispersed, your spiritual anchor can perceive you. You can have only one spiritual anchor at a time. Watchful Presence . If you are within 30 feet of your spiritual anchor, you can choose to disperse and remain dispersed during a long rest. Instead of sleeping, you remain conscious, watching over your allies, and you can wake your spiritual anchor or return to your physical form at will. As long as your spiritual anchor completes that long rest, you count as completing a long rest. Language . See Backgrounds .

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

