# Spiritfarer Erina

**description**: The erina are a race of bipedal folk that resemble hedgehogs. Originally hailing from the Bright Lands, the shadow fey brought erinas along as servitors when they first came to the Shadow Realm, where they quickly adapted to the shadows and have learned to thrive in the dark forests and underground warrens. Their natural propensity for exploration and their unrivaled burrowing skills mean that they've tunneled their way to many a strange new locale—including the mortal realms. They've primarily settled around the plateau that hosts the Queen's Wood and the Silver Hills, but regular bands of explorers, naturalists, and wilderness guides have established underground camps throughout the realm. The shadow fey are not entirely pleased by the erinas' wanderlust (making them less than entirely useful servants) nor with their open policy of assisting travelers in and out of the Shadow Realm through their underground shadow roads. However, at least for now, it is easier for the shadow fey to ignore these aspects of the crafty survivalists. Spiritfarer erinas are a subrace of erina. You can find out more about the base erina race in Tome of Heroes . Erina Names Erina names translate very poorly into other languages. When outside erina lands, the hedgehog-folk tend to adopt names with long, open vowel sounds. These sounds are rare in their own language and bring pleasure to their ears. Erina are certain to extend the vowel sounds in their names when introducing themselves. Example Names: May-nay, Wayee, Leemay, Einore, Die-Nu, Lowno, Ur-win. Erina Traits You are a spiritfarer erina, whose ancestors were forever changed by the Shadow Realm, setting you apart from most other erina. You exhibit a few different traits from typical erinas. The following traits include those shared with the base erina's traits (see Tome of Heroes ), though replacing the Ability Score Increase, Hardy, Spines, and Keen Senses traits with those listed. Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by 2, and you can choose to increase either your Dexterity or Charisma score by 1. (This trait replaces the base erina's Ability Score Increase trait.) Age. Erina reach maturity around 15 years and can live up to 60 years, though some erina burrow elders have memories of events that suggest erina can live much longer. Alignment. Spiritfarer erina are good-hearted and extremely social creatures with an oversized sense of wonder. They have a difficult time adapting to the laws of other peoples, but they cherish the bonds of their communities. They tend more toward neutral and lawful alignments. Size. Erina average about 3 feet tall and weigh about 50 pounds. Your size is Small. Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Digger. You have a burrow speed of 20 feet, but you can use it to only move through earth and sand, not mud, ice, or rock. Quills. Your spines are longer and more potent than other erinas. Whenever you make a successful melee attack against a target within 5 feet of you, that target takes an additional 3 (1d6) piercing damage. (This trait replaces the base erina's Spines trait.) Sharp Instincts. You can't be surprised, except when incapacitated by something other than nonmagical sleep. (This trait replaces the base erina's Keen Senses trait.) Spirit Tongue. You have an innate knack for speaking to the spirit world. You know the message cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast the charm person spell with this trait (targeting only undead creatures), and starting at 5th level, you can cast the enthrall spell with it. Once you cast a non-cantrip spell with this trait, you can't do so again until you finish a long rest. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for these spells. Languages. You can speak Erina and Umbral and either Common, Elvish, or Sylvan.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

