# Squatch Adult

**description**: “The honeyguide leads the badger to the beehive with its flight. The badger spills the honey with its strength. Working together, both get a sweet prize.” - Curto of Sandsvigor, Squatch elder The Squatch are forest-dwelling people, descended from the early Humans of Ne’Oor. They have long hair, ranging from nearly white blonde to deep black in color, often covering most of their body. Squatch warriors take pride in their grooming, often braiding their hair into intricate patterns, dyeing it to denote tribal affiliation or rank, and weaving trinkets, trophies, and beads of various significance into their hairstyles. Typically on the taller range of Human variants, the Squatch have muscular builds and slightly pronounced brow ridges on their foreheads. Squatch have powerful builds, reflected especially in their broad shoulders and thick chests. Their extreme strength and long fingers allow them to climb trees well, where they are able to hide and hunt in the forest canopy. Many Squatch villages are groupings of treehouses bordering the many wooded areas of Ne’Oor. One with Nature The Squatch have a close affinity with nature, living mainly in the forest among the Fey and other magical beings. Squatch villages are communal in practice, with each member of the tribe having specific duties that contribute to the whole. Meals and social activities are shared by entire tribes as a whole, and while adults perform their duties, the children gather in a “family hut” where they are all raised together and spend most of their time learning, playing, and sleeping. Parents spend three to four hours a day in the afternoon with their children after work and before dinner. While a basically peaceful and non-confrontational society, most Squatch are raised to be wary of outsiders, due to the outsiders’ judgment on their way of life. However, this way of life allows the Squatch to connect with each other and themselves without too much distraction, tapping into the Oor more easily. Squatch who live in these communal tribes in the woods tend to discover their Wardling abilities at an early age of four or five years old, but those who take on too many tribal duties often lose their abilities before adulthood. Squatch Names Squatch names are typically simple and short, with hard consonants and short vowels such as long Os (pronounced “oh”) and soft As (pronounced “ah”), which are commonly stressed in their speech, even when speaking Common. Squatch rarely take on last names and instead define themselves by the community village in which they were raised, which are generally named after their location or village mission. Sample First Names : Barca, Cavo, Dava, Fona, Goro, Mago, Ona, Pana Sample Village Names : Firebrush, Goodhunt, Highbranch, Nightclan, Woodguard Squatch Traits Strong and dedicated, the Squatch keep to nature and benefit from its surroundings. Ability Score Increase . Your Strength score increases by 2. Age . Squatch reach physical maturity at about the same age as other humans and are considered adult at about 18 years old, however, they continue to appear as young adults until they reach about 40 years of age. Most Squatch live natural lives of up to 100 years. Alignment . The majority of Squatch are Lawful Good, placing great pride on work ethic and order. Their communal lives teach them to value everyone in their village and that everyone has a place and purpose. While individual material wealth is unimportant to their society, they strive to work together to provide comfortable living within easy means. Size . Squatch have large builds and are taller than other Human variants, averaging between 6 to 8 feet as adults. Squatch children usually reach 5 feet tall by the time they are 5 years old and are considered Medium size even at this young age. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Squatch Combat Training . You have proficiency with the handaxe, light hammer, and warhammer, as well as the longbow. Squatch additionally have proficiency in throwing nets onto invading creatures from their treetop homes. Squatch Climb . You gain proficiency in the Athletics skill and have a climbing speed of 60 feet. Inspiring Roar . You can inspire others to work well together, due to your upbringing in a cooperative society. To do so, you use a Bonus Action on your turn to choose one or more creatures you can see who are allied with you and within 5 feet of each other. These creatures each gain a +3 to every ability check, attack roll, or saving throw they make during their next turn. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. Naturesight . Whenever you make an Intelligence (Nature) check related to plants or a forest or wooded area, you are considered proficient in the Nature skill and add double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of your normal proficiency bonus. Languages . You can speak, read, and write Common and Sylvan. 

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Renegade Game Studios

**book**: Wardlings Campaign Guide

