# Strig

**description**: Strigs are the most imposing of the birdfolk races. Resembling owls, their thick feathers, solid bodies, and broad wings have earned them a reputation as the most powerful of the birdfolk races. They value strength and endurance, traits they believe crucial for survival in the Wood. Although they are not necessarily prejudiced against those who are weaker, strigs are quick to call out when someone is not doing their best for the common good. Strong and Brave While many birdfolk rely on their prowess or intelligence for superiority, strigs use their immense strength and stamina to endure even the most punishing assault. They make mighty warriors, and whether defending their perch or braving the Wood itself, strigs never shy away from a fight. Strig culture is largely based on principles of strength and endurance above all, but not necessarily for the purposes of combat. Protecting and providing for others in hard times is considered just as impressive, if not more so, than winning a fight. Woodland Survivors Strigs, more than any of the other birdfolk race, are most at home in the wild. Their mottled feather patterns, though not as bright or beautiful as others, allow them to easily hide in the forest. Due to this inherent advantage, along with their speed and power, strigs make excellent hunters and rangers. Strigs prefer the relative simplicity of the forest to the machinations of society and politics. Despite these individualistic tendencies, they are capable of forming familial and community bonds that transcend a permanent or single physical home. Strig Traits Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 2. Age. Strigs reach maturity faster than most birdfolk races, around 15 years. They can reach a respectable old age by birdfolk standards, living around 80 years. Alignment. Strigs are normally good aligned, having a strong sense of fair play as well as a tendency to see the best in others. They also favor chaotic alignments, as strigs are a freedom-loving people who will usually put their personal morals above any imposed system of governance. Size. Strigs are muscular, imposing folk ranging from 4 to over 5 feet tall and weighing around 110 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Glide. Using your feathered arms, you can slow your fall, and glide short distances. When falling you can use your reaction to spread your arms, stiffen your wing feathers, and slow your descent. While doing so, you continue to fall gently at a speed of 60 feet per round, taking no fall damage when you land. If you would fall at least 10 feet in this way, you may fly up to your movement speed in one direction you choose, although you cannot choose to move upwards, landing in the space you finish your movement. You cannot glide while carrying heavy weapons or wielding a shield (though you may drop any held items as part of your reaction to spread your arms). You cannot glide while wearing heavy armor, or if you are encumbered. Talons. Your sharp claws aid you in unarmed combat and while climbing. Your damage for an unarmed strike is 1d4 piercing damage. Additionally, you have advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks made to climb any surface your talons could reasonably grip. Darkvision. You are adept at hunting under the cover of night. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Patterned Feathers. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks when you attempt to hide in a forest. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Birdfolk. You can also understand Auran, though you cannot speak it naturally. Subrace. There are two main subraces of strigs: swift and stout . Choose one of these subraces.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Hit Point Press

**book**: Humblewood

