# Subek

**description**: The kindly, scholarly subek come from a river-based culture, known for advising others and lending their physical and intellectual prowess to local projects. During flood season, however, the subek become violent and territorial. Subek adventurers often wish to break away from the ebb and flow of the river and discover in the process some control over their destructive nature. Subek dwell along the banks of the major rivers in warm climates. In the Southlands, the river Nuria shelters several communities of subek, as do the Selwheyha and the Amaja. Subek Names Subek adopt names similar to other races in whatever region they dwell. Subek Traits Your subek character has certain characteristics in common with all other subek. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2, and you choose one of the following to increase by 1: Strength, Intelligence, or Wisdom. Age. Subek age at roughly the same rate as humans but mature faster, reaching adulthood around the age of 10. They can live up to 300 years. Alignment. Subek possess a wide range of alignment, just as humans do. The ties to the natural pattern of their river homes tend to push many subek toward lawful or neutral alignments. Their Flood Fever (see below) has an impact on this. Size. Adult males can reach a height of 8 1/2 feet with females averaging 5 inches shorter. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet and your swim speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Natural Weapons. Your powerful bite and sharp claws are natural weapons that you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, your bite deals 1d8 + your Strength modifier piercing damage and your claws deal 1d6 + Strength modifier slashing damage. Hold Breath. Accustomed to your watery home, you can hold your breath for up to 15 minutes. Flood Fever. Choose three consecutive months out of the year to reflect the flood season of your river birthplace. During this time, you lose the benefits of your Scholars trait (see below). When a creature deals damage to you, every attack you make and harmful spell you cast must include that creature as a target, until you drop to 0 hit points, your target falls to 0 hit points, or you are unable to make an attack against it for 1 minute. Once per turn when you hit your target with an attack, you deal an additional 1d6 damage. Scholars. When it is not flood season, you have advantage on Intelligence (History) and Intelligence (Investigation) checks. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Southern Trade Tongue as well as a second language of your choice.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Southlands Player's Guide

