# Sublime Ravenfolk

**description**: A growing proportion of ravenfolk have joined a mystery cult in the Shadow Realm; some claim this cult is new and others that it has ancient roots and is just now being revived. These ravenfolk call themselves Seekers of the Sublime and reportedly are drawn by a mysterious psychic song. Their numbers are still few, but more arrive along the shadow roads from the mortal lands regularly, waiting for the unknown singer to reveal their intentions. This network is highly secretive about the details of their mission, but so far, they have not conducted open hostilities against the other peoples of shadow. Sublime ravenfolk are a subrace of ravenfolk. You can find more about the base ravenfolk race in Midgard Heroes Handbook . Sublime Ravenfolk Names As with many other races whose native language is difficult for more humanlike vocal organs to deal with, ravenfolk tend to use different names among humans, dwarves, elves, and other humanoids than they use among their own kind. When choosing human-friendly names, ravenfolk borrow liberally from local traditions, mythology, and popular songs and poetry. They prefer evocative names (like Starshadow, Moonglow, and Rainshimmer) over more prosaic labels, but that's as much consistency as it's possible to define. Since these aren't their real names, ravenfolk have little attachment to them. Sublime Ravenfolk Traits You are a ravenfolk mysteriously drawn to an unknown source within the Shadow Realm, which sets you apart from most other ravenfolk. You exhibit a few different traits from typical ravenfolk. The following traits include those shared with the base ravenfolk's traits (see Midgard Heroes Handbook ), though replacing the Ability Score Increase, Mimicry, Sudden Attack, and Trickster traits with those listed. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2 and your Charisma score increases by 1. (This trait replaces the base ravenfolk's Ability Score Increase trait.) Age. Ravenfolk reach adulthood at 10 years of age and can live to be 110. Alignment. Sublime ravenfolk more often tend toward lawful alignments than their cousins in the mortal world. They tend to seek stability and connectedness in their relationships, entrusting their path to the song. Size. Ravenfolk are slighter and shorter than humans. They range from 4 feet to just shy of 6 feet tall. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Constant Tune. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. (This trait replaces the base ravenfolk's Sudden Attack trait.) Cosmic Musician. You have proficiency in the Performance skill and gain proficiency with one musical instrument of your choice. (This trait replaces the base ravenfolk's Trickster trait.) Sublime Chord. As an action, you can mimic the mysterious sublime song to attempt to charm creatures within range. All creatures within 30 feet that can hear you must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or become charmed by you for 10 minutes. The charmed creatures regard you as a friendly acquaintance. A creature makes this saving throw with advantage if you or your companions are fighting it. Once you use this ability, you cannot do so again until you complete a long rest. (This trait replaces the base ravenfolk's Mimicry trait.) Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common, Ravenfolk, and Umbral.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

