# Tallfolk

**description**: Tallfolk "They tell me it was the Witches that set me in the boughs of that great old ironheart tree, deep in the woods north of the Risa that found me. I don’t know, I don’t. I was wee then. But I tell you truth, there’s a stirring when I look up at that mountain. A longing. One day I may have to wander thataway. That’s why I keep to the Sea, my back to Turnfjall as much as I can." —Jrodis, quartermaster of the Waterdrake, longship of the Risa Since the Exodus, tales of enormous men and women appearing in the forests of Turnfjall have spread. Over time a community of these large humanoids have formed a clan of their own—the Risa. The true origins of the tallfolk are not known, but some say that their ancestors were originally found alone in the great woods standing in the shadow of the mountain Turnfjall. Legends suggest that they were children stolen from a race of even larger men and women living high in the slopes of that ancient mountain. And who were these thieves that conspired to steal the children of giants? Some believe it was the Ironwood Witches themselves. Children in the Woods Though most tallfolk are born in the Risa community, a child is still occasionally found orphaned in the forests of Turnfjall. Almost always these orphans are brought to the Risa and join the clan. Like Giants Most tallfolk come close to (or slightly exceed) 10 feet in height, and they weigh several hundred pounds. Strong and hardy, they are as intelligent and skilled as other raiders. Perhaps more so. Generations of feeling like they did not quite fit in with the other clans has instilled in them a fierce desire to overachieve. Humble and Worried Many tallfolk, as they age, begin to hear whispers… a faceless voice whose words are never heard clearly. Yet the meaning is inescapable: the voice urges them towards violence and anger, and often towards the mountains of Turnfjall. And so, they counter-balance that with a gentleness that belies their great size. But those that anger the tallfolk always reap consequences. Tallfolk Names In general, the names are very similar to other raider names. For those that are raised on their own, or in more unusual circumstances, they may have more unique names. Names: Artog, Blar, Dwat, Haw, Mon, Nock, Nuna, Rima, Rowl, Spar, Stroth. Tallfolk Traits The tallfolk have the following traits. Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. Age. Tallfolk age slightly slower than humans, reaching adulthood in their early twenties and living a little past one hundred. Size. Your size is Large. Speed. Your base walking speed is 35 feet. Bulky . Your larger size allows you to double the range of any thrown weapon and add +1 to its damage. Additionally, when you make a melee attack, your reach is increased by 5 feet. All clothing and armor costs 50% more to make. Breaking Point. When hit, you may use your reaction to attack the opponent that damaged you (with advantage). However, using Breaking Point tires you and your initiative is reduced by 10, starting on the next round, for the remainder of this battle. You may use this trait a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus. After that you must finish a long rest to use this trait again. Giant Ancestry (Subrace). Pick one of these of the following subraces: Earth or Cold . This subrace will grant additional special traits. Earth-child Brown or black skinned, these are the predominant tallfolk and are the only tallfolk most raiders have ever encountered. Camouflage. You gain advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks when hiding in rocky or mountainous terrain. Cold-child These tallfolk have a blue tinge to their skin and tend to be slightly larger than earth-children, hinting at a different ancestry. Other tallfolk are less welcoming of cold-children and they seldom hold any important position within the Risa. Frostborn. You have resistance to cold damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

