# Tengu

**description**: In Rokugan’s folklore, tengu are believed to be celestial messengers who deliver missives for the gods and guard divine passageways into the heavenly realms. While some tengu may serve in these functions, the truth is that they are a species with individuals as varied as humans. Tengu inhabit the distant peaks of the northern mountains in larger numbers than anywhere else in Rokugan, but they are quite rare in all parts of the Emerald Empire. Few humans in Rokugan ever consciously glimpse a tengu, for a single fleeting sight of one flying high in the sky might easily be mistaken for the tengu’s smaller cousins, the birds. Physiology Tengu are feathered, tall hominids with great wings, taloned hands, and the heads of birds. They usually range in height from five to six feet, though some are much larger and others are much taller. Because of their feathers and hollow bones, they tend to be lighter than most humans of comparable height. They are capable of both gliding on their physiology alone, but their natural kinship with air spirits is what allows them to gain lift when it might otherwise be impossible. In terms of plumage, tengu range in hue and feather pattern as widely as their smaller avian counterparts. Some have striking feathers like peafowl and pheasants, while others have plumage of more muted colors, evoking crows, ravens, and other corvids. Tengu speech is generally birdlike, and ranges from the sonorous chirping of a songbird to the croaking register of a crow depending on the individual. Illusory Powers Illusory glamours, often called Masks of Air, allow tengu to walk among the people of Rokugan unnoticed. In order to assume human form, one must recite an ancient incantation while donning a particular piece of human clothing; the resultant illusion casts a veil over the reciter that makes them appear and sound like a member of another species. The illusion fades when the specific piece of clothing is removed. While transformed, a tengu’s native physical appearance transliterates to their illusory human form: scars, features, and distinctive marks on a tengu body persist in their human body. The harsh tengu voice softens to accommodate human speech, and the glamoured tengu feels human to the touch. Tengu Traits As a tengu, you benefit from the following: Ability Score Increase . Choose two ability scores to increase by 1. Age . Tengu are physically mature in their late teenage years, and most live less than a century. However, tengu can in theory live considerably longer, with some individuals living centuries. Size . Tengu stand about the same height as an adult human, with most falling in the range of five to over six feet tall. You are Medium. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. You can also glide using your wings, giving you a flying speed of 60 feet that cannot be used to ascend unless you have access to an upward air current, such as the one created by the surge of air invocation. Grace of Winds . You can spend your bonus action to call upon the air spirits to perform the surge of air invocation, gaining 3 bonus favor to spend on its empowerments. This favor is lost if it is not spent. Once you use this feature, you cannot use it again until you complete a long rest. Mask of Air . After you complete a long or short rest, you can disguise yourself to appear as a member of another Medium size species (such as a human). This guise maintains various distinguishing features of your tengu form and voice, but appears to be the chosen species for all intents and purposes. You must have a piece of clothing commonly worn by members of that species to perform this illusion, and the clothing becomes part of your outfit. When you use your flight speed or Grace of Winds feature, your disguising glamour immediately vanishes. To see through this illusion, a creature must make an Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check with DC equal to 12 + your proficiency bonus. Language . See Backgrounds .

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

