# The Lucidling

**description**: Ssussothis slowly awoke from its decennial nap. Once again, the aboleth dreamed of that pathetic warrior and his dopey grin. What an embarrassment it was to dream of defeat at the hands of such a lighthearted fool. Ssussothis’ anger leached from the aberration’s body, filling the cavern with a hideous squelching sound. The aboleth sluggishly opened its three eyes to find an intruder standing in a pool of ectoplasmic goo. The slimy, grey-skinned humanoid was beaming at Ssussothis, a wide gap-toothed grin stretching across a chinless face. The being’s three vertically stacked red eyes blinked, and they waved a fleshy, sword-shaped tentacle. “Are you my mama?” asked the eager lucidling. When sleep meets the sleepless, lucidlings are born. The unwanted offspring of immortal aberrations, lucidlings burst forth from the dreams of ancient aboleths and other alien beings, where uncontrolled thoughts beget life. Odd Offspring No two lucidlings are alike. When the Vizier of the Court of All Flesh, Lord Rall, inverts the fragile flesh of a dozen enemies, his dreams might be so filled with their screams that it inadvertently spawns several lucidlings at once. A trained eye—one unfortunate to have seen a plethora of aberrations—can identify the lucidlings’ lineage based on physical characteristics, but similarities among lucidlings with the same parent are typically far and few between. Though all lucidlings are humanoids, one lucidling might be smooth and spindly with a single piercing eye, while their “sibling” could be twice as large, with a purple leathery hide speckled with tiny barbs. In addition to physical features, lucidlings inherit diluted personality traits from their creators. A lucidling descended from a dominating aboleth may be described as controlling or manipulative, while the child of a gibbering mouther might be loquacious and greedy. Despite these patterns in their psyche, lucidlings are hardly replicas of their creators. They are unique individuals, shaped by their environments, choices, and experiences. Whole New World Paranoid progenitors reduce many lucidlings to dust shortly after their inception, but not all aberrations attempt to destroy their accidental handiwork—and those that do are not always successful. A surviving lucidling might become a dutiful minion, bizarre apprentice, or loyal spy. Others manage to escape their creators’ lairs before the aberrations wake. Lucidlings begin life as fully-formed adults with alien appearances and little or no concept of organized humanoid society. Once exposed to the outside world, curiosity overwhelms most lucidlings, driving them to partake in the best and worst experiences life has to offer. Lucidling Vestiges Every lucidling is born with a vestige, an organic structure that points to their otherworldly heritage. The Lucidling Vestiges table contains examples of physical features you can add to give your character a more alien appearance. These structures have no effect on your character’s game statistics. Lucidling Vestiges d8 Vestige 1 Eyestalks 2 Translucent skin 3 Irregularly shaped iris 4 Glow-in-the-dark bones 5 Beak concealed by tentacles 6 Extra pair of tiny arms 7 Shriveled wings 8 External organs Lucidling Names Lucidlings are genderless. They typically adopt the name of their parental aberration, followed by a suffix synonymous with the muse of their birth dream. Lucidlings often choose an abbreviated nickname to accommodate creatures who do not speak their progenitor’s language. Example Lucidling Names . Albezuro-Gel (Abegel), Krizeth-Gel (Krigel), Krizeth-Mawpt (Kript), Marthekh-Khan (Markh), Xapkiro-Laxx (X-Lax) Lucidling Traits Your lucidling character has the following traits. Ability Score Increase Your Intelligence score increases by 2, and one other ability score of your choice increases by 1. Age Lucidlings reach maturity at the time of their creation, but their lifespans vary wildly. Some lucidlings live less than a year, while others are seemingly immortal. Lucidlings do not age. Alignment As products of unchecked creativity, lucidlings tend towards chaotic alignments. Size Lucidlings range from 4 to 7 feet tall and weigh between 100 and 300 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Spontaneous Evolution As an action, you can assume an otherworldly form, choosing from the following options. This transformation lasts for 10 minutes, until you die, or until you revert to your normal form as a bonus action. Once you use this trait, you can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Alien Appendages . You sprout a pair of tentacles, arms, or similar appendages. Each appendage has a reach of 10 feet and can lift a number of pounds equal to three times your Strength score. You can use a bonus action on your turn to perform a simple task with one of your appendages, such as: lift, push, pull, or interact with an object or creature; grapple a Large or smaller creature; or make an unarmed strike. Your GM might allow you to perform other tasks with your appendages. Your appendages can’t wield weapons or shields or do anything that requires manual precision, such as using tools or magic items or performing the somatic components of a spell. Psionic Propulsion . You gain a flying speed equal to your walking speed and can hover. Supernatural Secretion . You secrete a viscous magical slime, granting you the ability to breathe underwater and a swimming speed equal to your walking speed. In addition, when a creature hits you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction to deal poison damage equal to half your level to the attacker. Telepathy You can communicate telepathically with any creature you can see within 30 feet of you. If the receiving creature can speak at least one language, it can respond to you telepathically. Languages You can speak, read, and write Common and Deep Speech.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 3

