# The Sandspeaker

**description**: Azita clasped her hands together and leaned forward on her oaken desk inquisitively. It was littered with books, notes, and drawings devoted to sleep and the power of the subconscious. “What did you dream of last night?” she asked the young prince. “I didn’t dream of anything,” replied Moshen. “So you forgot?” “Sometimes I just don’t dream.” He shrugged. “We always dream,” asserted the scholar, reaching for a thin purple book with gold stars along its spine. She slid it across the desk to Moshen. “Unless they’re stolen from us.” Formed from the sands of island shores in the astral sea, sand speakers look like sauntering humanoid sculptures stretched from dyed glass. They infiltrate the minds of creatures in their sleep, acting as prophetic messengers and so-called “thought thieves” on behalf of extraplanar entities. Children of the Sands Before recorded time, archangels warred with aberrations at the bounds of the multiverse, where astral sands slowly spilled into nothingness. Led by Oneirus the Eternal, the angels sought to drive back the unfathomable evils and prevent the aberrations from disrupting their divine works. During a cataclysmic battle, Oneirus’ radiant fire scorched the iridescent sand, giving it form and infusing it with life. Humanoid figures of molten glass, the original sand speakers, rose from the astral desert and knelt before the archangel. Oneirus invited each sand speaker to pledge themselves to a righteous cause and return with the angels to the celestial host. Many accepted and became prophetic messengers, while others decided to explore their newfound freedom, wandering the sands like interplanar nomads. Some, however, were tempted by unintelligible whispers emanating from the Abyss, rejecting Oneirus in favor of maleficent beings lurking beyond the sands. Extraplanar Emissaries Despite their smooth complexion, sand speakers are composed of millions of tiny granules suffused with cosmic energy. Sand speakers travel the multiverse in service to meddling archfey, imprisoned fiends, and forgotten deities hoping to reassert their godhood. Some conduct divine outreach as heralds, while others tempt sleeping souls on behalf of ambitious devils. A sand speaker might appear before a belligerent zealot, chastising their actions in hopes of averting a holy crusade without a single casualty. Some sand speakers, called thought thieves, engage in subconscious subterfuge, slipping into the minds of influential figures to steal precious secrets or plant the seed of an idea in hopes of prompting action in the material world. Expert thought thieves are graceful shadows, sneaking past the defenses of well-guarded noble estates, fortified prisons, and the magically warded towers of paranoid mages. The ability to dream walk is both a blessing and a curse. Distrusted as violators of the unconscious mind, sand speakers carry a stigma wherever they go. Perpetual Vagabonds Sand speakers typically relocate after appearing in a creature’s dreams to avoid scrutiny. While some prefer hidden lairs on the outskirts of civilizations or adopt a regular disguise, most sand speakers are vagabonds, constantly on the move to minimize the odds of being recognized by a former target. Sand speaker societies are rare, and take the form of caravans or mobile camps. Boundless Perspective By the time a sand speaker reaches maturity, they have seen dozens of dreams. However, a sand speaker’s ability comes at a price: the first time that they dream walk, they can no longer have dreams of their own. Instead, they must live vicariously through the fantasies of others, beholding the wonder of the unrestrained mind but tasting none of its fruits for themselves. Dream walks inspire sand speakers to explore the real world. To a sand speaker, each dream is an illusion— alluring, foreign, and hollow. They observe delicious foods, wondrous curiosities, and breathtaking landscapes imagined by dreamers. Sand speakers chase these visions during their waking hours, venturing out into the world in search of iconic landmarks, gourmet recipes, and famous individuals that inspired dreams they’ve visited. Sand Speaker Personalities Though sand speakers lose the ability to have new dreams after their first dream walk, they can still relive old ones. In sand speaker culture, these old dreams are symbols of fate called omens. Typically, the same omen recurs for weeks, months, or years. A sand speaker has no control over which omen they experience each night and always recalls it perfectly upon waking. Like tarot card readings or casting runes, a sand speaker draws meaning from their omen, believing it holds some hidden clue to their destiny. The Sand Speaker Omens table displays possible omens for your character, while the Sand Speaker Quirks table contains specific quirks to help you portray them. Sand Speaker Omens d8 My omen involves a… 1 Vault filled with treasures from a distant land. 2 Simple memory shared with a loved one who’s no longer around. 3 Recurring symbol which I do not recognize. 4 Battle against formidable foe. 5 Mysterious creature. 6 Famous person I have never actually met. 7 Test of great importance. 8 Horrible nightmare. Sand Speaker Quirks d8 Quirk 1 Your body is shaped like a round-bottom flask. 2 Sand shifts beneath your glassy skin, changing color to reflect your mood. 3 You have a phobia of water. 4 When someone wrongs you or your companions, you discretely fill their belongings with sand. 5 You are a thrill seeker, chasing the passion you’ve witnessed in others’ dreams. 6 You look for meaning in every action or symbol. 7 Others often mistake you for someone they know. 8 You talk in your sleep. Very loudly. Sand Speaker Names Each sand speaker has a single name, determined by a motif found in their first dream walk. Sand speaker names are gender-neutral. Example Sand Speaker Names . Caress, Dance, Drown, Fall, Run, Song, Spider, Teeth, Whisper. Sand Speaker Traits Your sand speaker character has the following traits. Ability Score Increase Your Dexterity, Wisdom, and Charisma scores each increase by 1. Age Sand speakers reach maturity at the same rate as humans. On average, they live about 300 years. Alignment Sand speakers tend towards lawful neutral. Tapping into the subconscious minds of other creatures gives sand speakers a sense of perspective. They see creatures in their most vulnerable states, witnessing their brightest hopes, deepest desires, and darkest fears. Size Sand speakers have smooth, elongated features. They range from 6 to 8 feet tall and weigh between 150 and 250 pounds. Your size is Medium. Speed Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Sandform As an action, you, along with everything you are wearing and carrying, transform into fine sand for 1 minute. This effect ends if you are reduced to 0 hit points. While in this form, you retain your walking speed and lose all other movement speeds you have. You can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. You gain resistance to nonmagical damage. You can’t talk or manipulate objects, and any objects you were carrying or holding can’t be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. You can’t attack or cast spells. Once you use this trait, you can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Oneiromancy You know the message cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast the sleep spell once with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. When you reach 5th level, you can cast the silence spell once with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for these spells. Dream Walk As an action, choose a sleeping creature that you can see within 10 feet of you. You enter a trance state for up to 8 hours, acting as a messenger. While in the trance, you are aware of your surroundings, but can’t take actions or move. You appear in the target’s dreams and can converse with it as long as it remains asleep, for the duration of your trance. If the target wakes during your trance for any reason, your trance immediately ends. You can’t shape the target’s dreams or alter your appearance when you dream walk—you are only a visitor. You can emerge from the trance at any time, ending this effect early. The target recalls the dream perfectly upon waking. Entering Dreams The Dream Realm does not abide by the laws of the material world, so sand speakers hoping to gain information must think outside the box. For example, in real life, the ability to read—be it a book, a sign, even a clock—is not processed in the subconscious part of the human brain, therefore we are unable to read in our dreams. While a dozing creature might believe it’s reading, a sand speaker inside the dream may come across inscriptions written in gibberish or books filled with blank pages. Similarly, creatures in dreams are products of the dreamer’s subconscious and may look or sound differently than who the dreamer understands them to be—if they have a face at all! Knowing this information can help GMs and players convey dreams as distinct, vivid experiences with unique problems for characters to solve. Languages You can speak, read, and write Common and one other language of your choice.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 3

