# The Somnian

**description**: As I fell into my sleep, The stage was set with wondrous things. At long-lost mem’ries, I did weep, And missed the creatures in the wings. —Bibis Ross, “The Theatre of Sleep” Somnians are the creators of dreams. Compassionate artists and philosophers, the star-skinned illusionists find meaning in all things. Whether guiding a sleeping creature towards a source of inspiration or warning it when it has gone astray, somnians are the architects of bedtime’s wildest fantasies—and worst nightmares. Imaginative Illusionists Somnians hail from the vast expanse of the Dream Realm, where time slows and their innate magic is magnified. When a creature falls asleep, a somnian in the Dream Realm weaves a dream for them, uniquely tailored to the slumbering creature’s thoughts and feelings. Outside of the Dream Realm, a somnian’s ability to create dreams manifests as illusion magic. Despite this, somnians maintain their desire to mold the world around them, using their gifts to inspire others, uphold symbols of good, or seek justice. They are natural philosophers, gravitating towards callings that emphasize expression and interpretation, such as the arts, academia, or soothsaying. Cosmic Shepherds Every dream has a purpose. Inspiration. Remembrance. Realization. In the Dream Realm, somnians discern this purpose and gently suggest it to the creature through symbolism. Somnians continue to foster others in the material world, studying and nudging creatures towards their goals with subtle enthusiasm. There is no greater joy for a somnian than helping someone else achieve their dreams. Lasting Memories Somnians are known for their generosity. The frequent gift givers expect nothing in return, sparking lifelong friendships with sculptures, songs, and recipes. Superstitious folk believe it’s bad luck to turn down a somnian’s gift. In a true act of selflessness, a somnian can give their life to resurrect a fallen creature. All that remains of a somnian who performs this act is a memory of their choosing in the mind of the revived. While they typically sacrifice themselves to resurrect a loved one, somnians have imparted their last gifts to influential poets, scholars, and leaders who died before their time. Bereaved family members sometimes seek a somnian in desperation, hoping the dreamweaver will trade their life for that of a stranger. Somnian Nightmares As stewards of the sleeping, somnians are generally pleasant. However, every somnian harbors a mote of darkness they can harness, assuming nightmarish forms to terrify misguided creatures and foes alike. The Somnian Nightmares table contains examples of possible forms your character might take when invoking this darkness. Somnian Nightmares d6 Nightmare 1 Horrifying monster with too many joints 2 Panicked reflection of the target with their teeth falling out 3 Natural disaster, like a forest fire or tsunami 4 Swarm of insects, rodents, or other pests 5 Disapproving loved one 6 Empty, emotionless void Somnian Names Somnians look like humanoid galaxies. They have shadowy frames sprinkled with tiny luminescent stars. Somnians derive their names from the constellations on their twinkling frames. Example Somnian Names . Arietes, Aquila, Belator, Gladius, Leo, Ridera, Ocula, Papilonus, Zelotes. Somnian Traits Your somnian character has the following traits. Ability Score Increase Your Wisdom score increases by 1, and one other ability score of your choice increases by 1. Age Somnians begin life as wispy spirits and reach maturity around the age of 30. They can live to be 500 years old. Alignment As the sculptors of dreams, somnians emphasize imaginative freedom. They value expression and understanding and reject reality when it is oppressive. Somnians tend towards chaotic good. Size Somnians are the same height and build as humans. Your size is Medium. Speed Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Empath You have proficiency in the Insight skill. Astral Architect You know the minor illusion cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast detect thoughts once with this trait, and you regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. When you reach 5th level, you can cast major image once with this trait, and you regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for these spells. Nightmare As an action, you assume a terrifying form. Choose one creature that you can see within 60 feet of you. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your Wisdom modifier + your proficiency bonus. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once you use this trait, you can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Remembrance You can cast the resurrection spell once with this trait, requiring no material components. When you do so, you immediately die, and your body withers away in a cloud of starry dust. The resurrected creature awakes with a memory of yours (chosen by you). A somnian who sacrifices themselves in this way can only be brought back to life by a wish spell. Languages You can speak, read, and write Common and Celestial.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 3

