# Tieflings - Profondi

**description**: The great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the Devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world—he was thrown down to the Earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. Revelation 12:9 After Lucifer and his legions were cast down for their sins, they did not only form the legions who populate Hell, but also sought to infiltrate human society in order to gain support for the anticipated last battle. One of the demonic strategies was the creation of a new mixed species. Be it with the help of illusions, by brute force or means of temptation, they mated with humans, thus producing a species that is neither infernal nor human: the tieflings, or profondi as they call themselves in Italy. (The adjective profondo refers to “deep” both in a geographical and a spiritual sense. I profondi means “the deep ones”. Profondo and profonda are the singular masculine and feminine forms.) In some ancient cultures – amongst them the Romans – the offspring of humans and fallen angels were described as intermediaries who alerted men and women to the consequences of wrongdoings and thereby helped them to do right. They were seen as beings who exist between worlds and are neither evil nor good. But Christianity has finally demonised this inconveniently different species, which is why tieflings will shun human company, either living in remote regions, forgotten ruins or deep underground cities. Most will only come out by night, and only those who can pass, are permitted to interact with humans so as to protect their kin from being expelled or killed as demons. They are bound by a strict code to never reveal their racial identity. The existence of the profondi is therefore known to very few humans, like certain clerics, scholars or people with a magical background. Profondi can make very interesting and tragic characters. They by no means have to be evil, but will often be gripped by inner turmoil because of their dark heritage. Although many of them will choose to engage in dubious professions, not all follow the paths of thieves, murderers or necromancers. Becoming a merchant is very unlikely for them, but there are scholarly profondi who try to find answers in science or philosophy to cure their mental suffering. Profondi come with a traditional knowledge of the hellish regions, and will feel intrinsically uncomfortable in Churches, cloisters or around holy people. That said, they might well quell their fears in order to seek out deeper knowledge or salvation. Tieflings – Profondi Traits Appearance. Over the years, the infernal blood has thinned in many profondi families as they continued mating with humans. This has an influence on their appearance. Although older family members of tiefling characters might look very much as described in the rulebook, profondi player characters will only have very small horns and tails, all of which can easily be hidden by hair or clothing. Their skin color will either be in the normal human range or it can have an “odd” look: a bit too white, too dark, slightly green or gray as if ill, or a bit redder than the usual person. Their eyes can look a bit eery, very dark or light, but never golden or of another unnatural color. Also, no fangs please! Even the most inconspicuous profondi will still be met with suspicion due to their “foreign” or “weird” looks. There is also a tendency to look increasingly more demonic the older a profondo or profonda gets. This is why tieflings active in human society will usually not be older than 40 or 50. Odd fact. Several ancient profondi families continue breeding with the agents of Hell in order to strengthen their blood or – if this is not possible – to mate only with family members to avoid a deterioration of the typical tiefling traits. Such pure profondi will live much longer than humans but are liable to disabilities and deformities. Because of their even more conspicuous looks, we strongly discourage choosing them as player characters, but they will of course make wonderful NPCs. Languages. Apart from the human language of the country they live in, tieflings can understand and speak the original infernal language, which is a dialect of the angelic tongue. Many also study other ancient languages like Latin, old Greek, Hebrew or Aramaic. Religion. Profondi believe in a slightly altered version of the Catholic faith. This makes sense, as their very existence is explained by it. But contrary to common interpretation, most do not agree with the predictions of a final apocalypse as the battle between good and evil. Instead, they believe that Satan and his legions play an important role in cleansing the souls of the sinners and will therefore be rewarded when the time comes. Apart from appearance, all formal traits as described in the rules may be used.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 30058

**publisher**: Vortex Verlag

**book**: The Straight Way Lost

