# Tosculi

**description**: The tosculi are known in the Southlands as vicious raiders seeking to overrun all civilization from their mud-and-resin cities perched among ancient ruins. They are insectoid humanoids, operating under a shared consciousness and most often hostile or uncaring toward all non-tosculi. A fearsome and ruthless insectoid queen rules each hive city, sending her drones to raid for living captives to act as hosts for the next generation of drones. The Hiveless With the constant murmur of the hive queen in their minds, tosculi are born with an unshakable sense of purpose and belonging. Occasionally, though, a tosculi is born who does not hear the voice of the queen and possesses a trait anathema to the hive: individualism. Known as the Hiveless, these tosculi do not fit into the well-tuned social mechanics of the hive. They resist the orders of the queen and thoughts of the hive mind. Others are physically unsuited to the tasks for which they were bred and are cast out. Whatever the reason, they do not conform to tosculi society. Renegades must flee or be killed. These outcasts enter a world where they are reviled, where they learn what it means to be alone, but their lives and destinies are theirs to choose. Physical Description The tosculi are hard-shelled creatures that resemble 4-foot-tall, vaguely humanoid wasps with drooping, vestigial wings, small but vicious claws, and compound eyes. Their carapaces tend to be grayish or a dull brown, although a rare few have outer shells with a green, blue, purple, or rainbow-colored reflective sheen. The most distinctive physical trait of the tosculi is the buzzing noise they can suppress or intensify on a whim. An Alien Mind Tosculi minds are alien, especially those still linked to the shared consciousness of the hive. They possess the same emotions other races do, but their thought patterns are often strange or incomprehensible to non-tosculi. Sometimes their actions make sense; at other times, they seem to act without reason. Hiveless living among other races struggle to adapt to their mindsets. The absence of a hive-queen’s voice is an ever-present void in their minds. Society Tosculi who break from their kin remain standoffish toward others. They don’t trust easily and rarely form lasting bonds. They struggle to understand social concepts and the social rules of other races. Some hiveless view relationships as replaceable and only form alliances that advance their goals. Most, though, bond with true friends and companions as if replacing their lost hive. A rare few hiveless tosculi revel in their individuality and constantly seek to make themselves stand out to others. In general, most tosculi value teamwork and strong leadership. Relations with Other Races Tosculi are not popular among any of the races. Many believe all tosculi, connected to the hive or not, should never be trusted. They react to the insect folk with fear or violence, especially in the areas surrounding the Abandoned Lands. Others are more willing to ally with tosculi, including gnolls and trollkin, who themselves are often scorned. Alignment and Religion Hiveless tosculi are often practical, and the hatred they face makes it difficult for them to develop altruism toward others. Therefore, many are neutral. There are as many good tosculi adventurers as evil ones. They tend to consider how their actions affect their own lot more than how they affect others. The existence of the gods is a strange concept for the tosculi; many view religion as capitulation to strong rulers rather than the adoration of divine beings. Many evil tosculi still worship Arbeyach, but those who turn their backs on the Prince of Swarms favor Aposis, the Hunter, Thoth Hermes, or Xevioso. Adventurers Each tosculi is the product of a hive’s need for a certain type of drone, so the hiveless who break away possess a wide variety of physical and mental capabilities. The strong find their place as fighters or barbarians. Those with quick reflexes make invaluable rogues or rangers. Those with greater mental abilities often become talented clerics and druids. While few tosculi pursue arcane studies, those who do are often quite accomplished. Tosculi Names Tosculi’s voices naturally buzz and whine, and so they favor names with long vowels and hard consonants. The hiveless who seek to integrate sometimes choose regional names. Male Names: Billeeck, Gaarent, Pishuun, and Zzereell. Female Names: Malaatha, Naatea, Renaat, and Tayye. Tosculi (Hiveless) Traits Your tosculi character has several special traits. Ability Score Increase. One of your physical ability scores (Strength, Dexterity, Constitution) increases by 2, and one of your mental ability scores (Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma) increases by 2. You also take a –2 penalty to any one ability score. You may apply this penalty to the same ability score to which you gave a +2 bonus, granting you an overall +2 bonus to any one ability score. Age. Tosculi reach maturity at around 13 years but have shorter lifespans than most races with few living longer than 40 years. Alignment. The tension between tosculi and other humanoids often makes it difficult for the Hiveless to develop any true sense of altruism toward others, and many are neutral in alignment, with good tosculi being rare, and evil ones more common. Hiveless tosculi are equally likely to be chaotic, lawful, or neutral. Size. Hiveless tosculi are no more than 4 feet tall and typically weigh less than a humanoid of the same size. Your size is Small. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Natural Armor. Your Armor Class cannot be less than 11 + your Dexterity modifier no matter what armor you are wearing. Natural Attacks. You have proficiency with your claws, which deal 1d4 slashing damage. Gliding Wings. You take no damage from falls. You gain a fly speed of 40 feet but cannot hover. At the end of any round you fly, you must have descended at least one-quarter the distance you traveled or you fall. Stalker. You have proficiency in the Perception skill and Stealth skill. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Tosculi and one other language of your choice (typically Southern). Alternate Racial Traits Binding Spittle. As an Attack action, you may spit a ball of viscous fluid at a target within 60 feet that is Medium or smaller. Make a ranged attack against the target with proficiency. If successful, the fluid hardens upon impact and the target becomes restrained. As an action, the target can make a Strength check against a DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier to remove the condition. Anyone adjacent to a creature restrained by binding spittle may use their action to free the target in the same way. Dealing an amount of bludgeoning damage equal to half your level plus your Constitution modifier (AC 10) to the spittle also frees the target. After you use binding spittle, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest. This trait replaces the Stalker trait. Bite. Some hiveless tosculi develop the fierce mandibles associated with the warriors that defend their hives. You can make a bite attack as an unarmed strike that deals 1d6 slashing damage. On a successful hit with a bite, you may attempt to grapple the target as a bonus action. At 11th level, your bite damage increases to 2d6. This trait replaces the Stalker trait. Latent Hive Mind. You know the message cantrip. This cantrip is a psionic ability that does not require components. The cantrip also functions in a silence spell. Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the detect thoughts spell without the need for components. After you use this ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest. This trait replaces the Gliding Wings trait. Hardened Carapace. Some hiveless tosculi develop additional defenses at the cost of offensive ability. Your Armor Class cannot be less than 11 + your Constitution modifier + your Dexterity modifier no matter what armor you are wearing. This trait replaces the Gliding Wings and Natural Armor traits.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Southlands Player's Guide

