# Tuss

**description**: Tuss "I’ve seen more than one raider draw his last breath, dying on my tavern’s floorboard after attacking another for calling them a tusser’s bastard, or tuss, as my more concise patrons might say. The implication being that somehow, someway, they have the blood of the Yoten flowing through them. A laughable insult, such is, for living where I do, for as long as I have, I’d know if creatures such as these walked among us. They don’t exist. Our ancestors left all that behind them when they came here, to Grimnir. I am sure of it." —Zelan, owner of the Eye of the Storm Tuss do in fact exist. Their mothers are always human and when they are born the tuss are indistinguishable from other babies. The only difference that becomes apparent as they age is that they are generally stronger, healthier, and more successful than their cohorts. Many tuss even live their entire lives without ever realizing how different they are. Others are not so lucky. It might happen in a fight or a harsh argument. Their eyes flash purple. They land a blow too hard. The blood flowing in their veins transforms them, providing a glimpse into their ancestry. As quickly as it comes this transformation ends. Often the event goes without any remark from friends or family. They ignore it, pretend it never happened. They don’t want it to have happened. But sometimes the event cannot be pretended away and the tuss must be dealt with. They may be ushered out of their community by cover of night—exiled. Other times they are killed. This is done simply because the tuss is feared to be a Yoten. All of this is done to protect their families. For if knowledge of the tuss ever becomes widely known anyone close to them is at risk. Secret Birthright When a tuss comes of age a drive kindles in them. They become obsessed with bettering themselves—some do it by mastering their abilities on the battlefield while others seek out knowledge, desiring to learn all that they can. But most lack an understanding of their true nature… and many do not even try to understand why they are so different. Because they fear any answers they might find. Capable and Remarkable The tuss love their communities and learn to do all they can to better them. Others come to rely upon the tuss so they often become raid leaders, even jarls. The future is bright for a raider tuss—as long as they never reveal their true ancestry. Tuss Names Tuss have the same names as others in their community. Tuss Traits Tuss have the following traits. Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. Age. Tuss age the same as humans. Size. You are Medium. Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet. Steadfast. As long as you have not taken lightning damage since your last turn, if you are reduced to zero hit points, or as a bonus action on your turn, you may spend one Hit Die to regain hit points. Roll your die and add your Constitution modifier. You are healed by this amount. You are unable to use this feature again until you finish a short or long rest. True Nature. As an action, you manifest your true nature. Your physical appearance changes noticeably. Your skin or eyes may shift to an unusual color. You might sprout horns or suddenly become covered with fur or scales. Define these appearance details when you select this race. You may use an action to hide your true nature once more. While your true nature ability is active you have the following additional abilities: Darkvision. You see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light (colors in this darkness are seen as shades of gray). Powerful. Whenever you hit with a weapon attack you do additional damage, equal to half of your proficiency bonus (rounded up). Swift. Your walking speed increases by 5. Unsettling. You have disadvantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks and advantage on Charisma (Intimidation) checks.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Runic Tales Inc.

**book**: Raiders of the Serpent Sea - Compendium

