# Unbound Satarre

**description**: Satarre are renowned planar travelers, and visits to the Shadow Realm are no exception. As the populations of races grow in the various kingdoms of shadow, so the network of gateways feeding into their shadow roads also grows. None are more aware of this than the unbound satarre, a small faction zealously dedicated to unraveling barriers between the worlds. The unbound satarre are a curiosity even among their own kind since they have an instinctual sensitivity to places of transition. An unbound satarre is compelled to find such gateways and widen their influence through mundane or magical means. Unbound satarre are a subrace of satarre. You can find more about the base satarre race in Tome of Heroes . Unbound Satarre Names Like other satarre, unbound satarre names often resemble names of the cultures where they are raised, though satarre raised on the planes or in cults of darkness or death tend toward names common to those planes or that invoke the cult's tenets. Names in Void Speech are also common and are presented below. All satarre are given cult names, indicating which dark god their lives were dedicated to at their naming day. Such names preface the name of the cult or god with ai- and sometimes shorten the cult or god's name to two or three syllables. Most continue to serve or at least pray to these gods as adults, with varying degrees of piety. Example Male Names: Aggorret (eater), Denahrek (servant), Medloss (binder), Mörkothr (darkness), Narkot (gnawer), Pälsore (slaver), Vessar (blooddrinker), Rabefress (slayer). Example Female Names: Atlessa (jewel), Binulett (scout), Frizel (scribe), Ixa (blade), Miskra (maggot), Respy (builder), Unskappa (wisdom), Unterra (doom). Unbound Satarre Traits You are a satarre with a tendency for plane-hopping that sets you apart from most other satarre. You exhibit a few different traits from typical satarre. The following traits include those shared with the base satarre's traits (see Tome of Heroes ), though replacing the Ability Score Increase, A Friend to Death, and Carrier of Rot traits with those listed. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1. (This trait replaces the base satarre's Ability Score Increase trait.) Age. Satarre grow quickly, walking soon after hatching and reaching the development of a 15-year-old human by age 6. They maintain the same appearance until about 50 and then begin a rapid decline. Satarre often die violently, but those who live longer survive to no more than 65 years of age. Alignment. Satarre are born with a tendency toward evil akin to that of rapacious dragons, and when raised among other satarre or darakhul, they are usually evil. Those raised among other cultures tend toward the norm for those cultures. Size. Satarre are tall and thin, from 6 to 7 feet tall with peculiar, segmented limbs. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. Thanks to your dark planar parentage, you have superior vision in darkness. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Keeper of Secrets. You have proficiency in the Arcana skill, and you have advantage on Intelligence (Arcana) checks related to the planes and planar travel. In addition, you have proficiency in one of the following skills of your choice: History, Insight, or Religion. Portal Sense. While in a confined space, you instinctively know the direction and distance to the closest nonmagical entrance or exit to the area you are currently in. You also have advantage on any Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) ability checks made to find secret or invisible doors and magical portals. (This trait replaces the base satarre's A Friend of Death trait.) Unraveling Touch. You can use your action to attempt to tear at the reality that keeps a being together. Choose a creature that you can see within 30 feet. The creature must make a Constitution saving throw. The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus. A creature that fails the saving throw must use its action each turn to repeat the saving throw as it attempts to keep itself in one piece. On a successful save, the effect ends on the target. Once you use this feature, you cannot do so again until you complete a long rest. (This trait replaces the base satarre's Carrier of Rot trait.) Languages. You can speak, read, and write Umbral and either Abyssal, Infernal, or Void Speech.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Book of Ebon Tides Compendium

