# Unique Existence

**description**: You might be a lost royal from a lunar kingdom, washed upon the shore after falling from a moon-ship as it crossed the sky. You could be the spirit of an ancient mountain, walking the land clad in mortal flesh to see it through human eyes. Or you might be a painting so achingly beautiful you stepped from the canvas as your creator finished your last stroke. Whatever you are, nobody in Rokugan has seen anything else like you, at least not for a very long time. One of a Kind This is a species that plays up the mythic themes of Adventures in Rokugan : a being not easily defined or categorized, or one so rare in Rokugan as to be effectively unique. It is excellent for creating characters who evoke mythological characters. Celestial dragons traveling in mortal guise, lost siblings of the founders of Rokugan, and beings of other realms not reflected earlier in this chapter can all be created this way. The GM is the final arbiter if a concept is viable for a particular campaign. Distinguishing Features Though your body appears mortal enough to most onlookers (human, or another species of your choice with the GM’s permission), you might have unusual visual traits that mark you as somewhat otherworldly. Your eyes might be unusually bright or your voice exceptionally sonorous. Perhaps you have a strange scar or birthmark that catches people’s attention. To the spiritually attentive, your supernatural air is noticeable. Unique Existence Traits As something truly unique, you benefit from the following: Ability Score Increase . Choose one ability score to increase by 2, and another to increase by 1. Age . You could have existed only for mere moments or be as ancient as time itself. Discuss this with your GM. Size . Your size is that of the species you choose. Speed . Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Being of Myth . When it comes to a particular art or skill, you do not just excel at it—you embody it without effort. Choose one skill. You gain proficiency in this skill. Once per long rest, when you make a skill check with that skill, if the result is 5 or lower, you can reroll the die and must use the result, even if the new roll is a 5 or lower. Unbound Potential . Through effort, you can surpass normal mortal limits in your abilities. At 7th level or higher, the ability score associated with the skill you chose for your Being of Myth feature can increase above the normal limit of 20, to a maximum of 22. You must still use an Ability Score Increase or other means of raising your ability score to accomplish this increase. Unmistakable Presence . You attract the attention of others, though this can be a blessing or a curse. You gain proficiency in the Intimidation skill. However, you have disadvantage on checks to disguise yourself or pass yourself off as unremarkable. Language . See Backgrounds .

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Adventures in Rokugan

