# Valna

**description**: “We, above all others, know the beast within. It is akin to an awakening of the soul, an inner voice that calls out in your mind, drowning out the myriad of distractions that swirl around us. And when that voice calls, embrace it. Wield it. Let it tear out of you and become yourself anew. Only then, will you know who and what you truly are.” — Neivie Banetail, Valna elder Most spacefaring races are able to incorporate the advancements and practices of interstellar neighbors into their own culture and lifestyle. The valna are afforded no such mindset. They are beasts, first and foremost, with more connection to the creatures of the wild than they would ever have with a human. Technology has become a forced necessity, used at first to stop the threat of genocide. However, their elders take great care to not let these unnatural advancements overtake their habitat and way of life. Despite these resentments toward technology, many valna have accepted that they are now part of a much larger galaxy. They therefore make efforts to create alliances and friendships in an attempt to learn from those around them, as well as help these newfound allies to understand and accept the valna’s unfamiliar practices. Feral Duality The valna bear both catlike and humanoid traits, though it’s their bestial nature that can dictate how they think and deal with others. They act primarily on instinct, seeing emotions such as fear, delight, and anxiety as tools toward survival versus something meant to be understood or defined. Whenever a valna shows anger or acts with aggression, it is often coupled with a tangible reason such as survival, hunger, or surpassing an obstacle that keeps them from going forward. It doesn’t mean they lack emotion. They are, in fact, very empathetic. But they will likely choose to not express them in the moment if a more fundamental necessity takes precedence. They also have a knack of being able to read the emotions of those around them, often reacting accordingly. This way of thinking can make valna companions very hard to read in certain situations. People who are joyous or who make the valna feel at ease find a much easier time dealing with them. Physically, most valna possess a lean build. The majority of their features are catlike but they stand upright on their inverted hind legs. Their body fur can be shades of black, brown, gray, orange, or white. Some have a combination of colors in the form of stripes or spots. Their eyes can be brown, blue, green, hazel, or yellow. The Tribe and the Pack There were once many different tribes that lived on Vaal. The bio-weapon that tore through their people wiped out generations of valna, leading to consolidation of the scattered groups. There are only a few surviving tribes of valna. Where a valna’s tribe determines their bloodline, their pack defines their role in society. A valna’s pack and their role within it is the most important aspect of their being. Their deeds and actions within a pack denotes their position in the valna society, as well as how they are viewed amongst their peers. A valna without a pack is deemed to be unworthy of respect. On Vaal, packs are easily formed. However, it is much different for valna who travel across the stars. These travelers often find themselves adopting their alien companions as packmates, often choosing their own role or working with their teammates in order to define one. Strive to Survive Survival and preservation of their pack takes precedence above all else, often causing valna to take actions that others might see as harsh or cold-hearted. This is mostly attributed to their upbringing within the unforgiving environment of their homeworld, where many other savage beasts dwell. Such mannerisms show themselves less for valna who have spent years away from Vaal, but it is and always will be a part of their inherent nature. Valna Names Valna have a given name at birth they keep throughout their lifetime. Once they reach adulthood, they must go through a rite of passage, usually one that requires a test of cunning and survival. It is usually during this ritual the valna receives their surname, which is traditionally a marker of an important event in their life, a deed performed, or a particular aspect of their persona. Female Names: Atanna, Colise, Eria, Kobare, Makista, Nievie, Oleri, Raesia, Sina, Tanbay, Tuji, Walima, Xacca, Yira, Zatea Male Names: Aikor, Bakkas, Elzal, Famel, Hupan, Jabra, Ludum, Mero, Naewal, Perazo, Relor, Towan, Vorel, Wemar, Yando Sample Surnames: Banetail, Bravestride, Dustfinder, Firefang, Moonrock, Nightwalker, Skychaser, Songweaver, Sorrowling, Stormclaw Valna Traits Your valna character has the following traits. Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 2 and your Wisdom score increases by 1. Age. Valna age and mature at the same rate as humans. Alignment. Valna tend toward neutral or chaotic alignments. Not many valna are evil, but those few who are make for extremely vicious foes. Size. Valna are slightly taller than the average human. Your size is Medium. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You have keen, catlike senses. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were in dim light. You cannot discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Claws. Your sharp claws grant you a climbing speed of 20 feet while wearing anything other than heavy armor. In addition, your claws are a natural weapon, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with it, you deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. Catlike Agility. Your quick reflexes grants you maneuverability in combat. Whenever you take the Disengage action, you can also move 10 feet in any direction. Empathic Sense. Whenever you make a Wisdom (Insight) check to determine a creature’s mood or general attitude, add twice your proficiency bonus, instead of any proficiency bonus you would normally apply. Survival Training. You gain proficiency in two of the following skills of your choice: Perception, Stealth, Survival, or Xenobiology. Languages. You speak, read, and write Common and Valna.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 27051

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Esper Genesis Core Manual

