# Vindicator Scions

**description**: “‘Judicator.’ That is the word they spit at us. They have snarled spittle at me as I chain them, seething, ‘Blasphemous judge, lightsworn scourge.’ But think on the word—vindicator. To clear someone. Prove them to be right. Advocate for them. We purge darkness and determine the truth, yes, to prove the goodness of mortalkind and champion them into the light.” —Iradeza, vindicator paladin Those with vindicator heritage have the bloodiest charge of all: to exterminate evil. In the eternal war of goodness against corruption, vindicator scions are holy bounty hunters, inquisitives, spies, and bloodhounds for truth and justice. When they receive a target from the Celestials that guide them, they stop at nothing, overturning the world for the sake of purging wickedness. Adorned in Iron A vindicator’s wings extend in metallic blades, from large feathers of bulky claymore blades down to the thinnest rapier spines, some even curving like a cutlass or a saber. No two vindicators share the same wingspan, and unlike the wings of other scions, their wings are almost always present—a declaration of intent. At the height of the vindicator’s fury, these bladewings glow, much like the light-forged chains they summon to ensnare their targets. And when some Celestials would conjure a halo, a vindicator manifests a crown of iron and steel above their head. Their silhouette is an omen—with bladed wings spread wide, a jagged crown of iron hovering above, there can be no doubt that you have incurred heaven’s holy ire. Judge, Jury, Executioner A vindicator scion doesn’t hunt everyday sinners and common criminals. Vindicators seek the most dangerous of targets—those who use magic to avoid capture, those who escape death and rise eternal, and those who have amassed a power like unto divinity. Often, the target’s guilt is obvious when the vindicator arrives. The scion need only act as tracker, captor, and, if necessary, executioner. Vindicators are remarkably discerning. They aren’t dogs, hunting without reason. They are agents for divine justice. If guilt is not determined—if there is even a chance that a target is innocent—then the vindicator must stay their hand. Celestial progenitors form deep relationships with their vindicators, trust them immensely, and listen if doubt forms in the scion’s mind about the target—whether or not they agree with the vindicator’s opinion. Vindicators as Adventurers Like many scions, some vindicators find that adventuring carries out their purpose. They need not be given names to act in the name of truth and justice—enough evil is found merely by taking jobs from mortals, traveling, seeking treasure, and helping others. As long as a vindicator scion roots out evil and purges it, they fulfill their holy calling. However, when their progenitor assigns the vindicator scion a name, that task demands their focus. A vindicator who dawdles knows the radiant ire that awaits them if they fail to answer the call. The Call to Hunt Once or even twice a campaign, giving a vindicator a name to hunt down while the party is entrenched in another important task can create a fantastic tension in the party. Will the group stop what they’re doing to help the vindicator find their quarry? Will the vindicator risk divine retribution to delay the hunt and stay with their allies? Will the party split to accomplish both? What is the punishment if the vindicator delays? However, this is only effective on a rare and tense occasion. When used repeatedly, it becomes frustrating for the table, and the effect is lost. Use sparingly—and if in doubt, consider discussing the possibility of such an arc with the players outside of the game. Vindicator Scions Traits Your vindicator scion has the following traits. Ability Score Increase Your Strength score increases by 2, and one other ability score of your choice increases by 1. Age Vindicator scions mature at the same rate as humans, but they can live up to 150 years. Alignment Vindicator scions tend toward good, neutral, and lawful alignments. As they work closely with Celestials to enact their justice, they value fairness, discipline, boldness, and action. When they begin to justify the means of their justice, that is when evil or chaotic alignments manifest—and that may cause them to be stripped of their holy calling. Light of the Hunter As an action, you target a creature you can see within 60 feet of you, stabbing a golden sliver of light into its soul. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC equals 8 + your Wisdom modifier + your proficiency bonus). On a failed save, the creature is marked with a hunter’s beacon for 8 hours. While the creature is marked, you know its location as long as its on the same plane of existence as you. While you have this knowledge, the target can’t become hidden from you, and if it’s invisible, it gains no benefit from that condition against you. You can only have one target marked in this way at a time. Chains of the Vindicator Starting at 3rd level, you can use your action to unleash the divine energy within yourself, imbuing yourself with the fires of justice and donning wings of steel blades. Your transformation lasts for 1 minute or until you end it as a bonus action. For the duration, you gain the following benefits: You have a flying speed of 30 feet. As a bonus action, you can summon light-forged chains as a bonus action and hurl them at a creature within 30 feet. That creature must make a Strength saving throw (DC equals 8 + your Wisdom modifier + your proficiency bonus). On a failed save, the target is restrained until the end of your next turn. Once during each of your turns, you can deal additional radiant damage to one target when you deal damage to it with an attack or a spell. The additional radiant damage equals your level. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 11

