# Vor'tai

**description**: The vor’tai behind the counter smiled wide, his long teeth glinting in the dim light of the shop. Barely enough to see by, but the wizard had to give him credit for at least a cursory attempt at making his customers welcome. “Divinerrrrrrrr. Pleased to see you.” Telara looked at Zar’s blindfold and opened her mouth to say something, but thought better of it. “I have what you seek,” he hissed, standing up and lifting the flap on the shop counter. He began to make his way through a beaded doorway into the back room, beckoning the wizard to follow. “We have visitors from your realm so rarely, how was your journey?” he said as he led her into a small room lined with shelves of curios and esoteric tomes. In the centre of the room stood a small round table, a shimmering cloth draped over it and bare, except for a small metal box. “The usual. Gates aren’t exactly taxing on the system. Instantaneous, you know?” Zar gave no reply, retrieving the box from the table before turning to face her. “Now, a word of warning…” — “The Diviner” Though the mortal lands are walked by all manner of different species, it was not always so. In eons past, mortality was the sole purview of the astrals, who built a vast and magnificent civilization among the Starscape. The astrals grew to command the forces of creation and life itself and when their civilization was thrust into the fires of war, they created the vor to serve them. While the blue vor’sular served as custodians of the astrals’ knowledge, the red vor’tai were crafted as great warriors and guardsmen, serving their astral masters faithfully until they vanished into history. Released from servitude, the vor now dwell within the Starscape, carving out pockets of civilization in that midnight sea. Physiology Vor’tai are tall and lanky, ranging between six and eight feet tall when fully grown, and with deep red skin. Vor’tai have an additional thumb on each hand to create broadly symmetrical hands, and wear blindfolds or veils over their eyes. There are no records from anyone that has seen underneath one of these veils, although it's reasonable to assume they must be veiling...something! Every now and then someone gets an idea to find out, but they invariably...don't come back. The first vor’tai are said to have worn these blindfolds to shield themselves from beholding the true horrors of their masters’ enemies, but in the ages since the Astral War their use has primarily become for focusing their psychic abilities. Astral Servants A people designed in exacting detail to serve as soldiers and guardsmen, the vor’tai were once instrumental in the expansion of the astrals’ empire, and in its defence during the Astral War. Beset on all sides by those that would tear down the astrals’ golden towers, vor’tai were dispatched in vast legions throughout the Starscape in a conflict that lasted millenia, and which ultimately saw the astrals defeated and the vor freed from their bonds of servitude. Though the true nature of the astrals’ enemies are believed lost to history, the ramifications of the great war can yet be seen in shattered vessels and ruined structures that now drift through the Starscape, many of which have been reclaimed by the vor and transformed into bustling cities, merchant outposts, and vessels of war. A Psychic View Whether by virtue of the astrals’ design or the influence of millennia spent within the Starscape, vor minds are honed to a keen psychic edge, and their psionic abilities underpin all aspects of vor life, most notably how they perceive the world around them. Vor do not view the world with their own eyes, but rather through the eyes of others. Where other sapient species see the world through light and its reflection, vor see that same world through the psychic ripples created by others’ comprehension of their surroundings. Citizens of the Stars Though the astrals are now little more than a footnote in cosmic history, of relevance only to scholars and historians, the vor persist. Released from their bonds of servitude they live now within the Starscape, carving out lives at all levels of civilization. Some crew starsails as merchants, smugglers, or pirates, others live simple lives in vor communes, and many yet live as citizens of Aeon, the City Among the Stars, undertaking any number of professions its people might require. Despite being freed from their astral masters, vor’tai often still feel an ancestral pull towards the martial pursuits they were crafted for and regularly serve as cosmic mercenaries, warrior-monks, or even assassins – within the Starscape or abroad. Thanks to both this inherited aptitude for warcraft and their psychic skills, a vor’tai warrior is a fearful sight for those they would do harm… Vor'tai Names Most vor’tai names are composed of between one and three syllables, separated by glottal stops. Vor’tai Names: Am’aan, Ban’a’dar, Dai’mun, Kam’sin’ra, Mar’dir, Ro’kan, Tor’ma’kai, Vai, Ven’kal, Zar Vor'tai Traits As a vor’tai, you gain the following traits: Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 2, and another by 1. You cannot increase scores past 20 in this manner. Age. Vor’tai lifespans are difficult to determine as extraplanar time is rarely measured in years and can often flow differently than the Mortal Realm. Scholars’ best guesses show vor’tai reach adulthood quickly – within about ten years of birth – and can live upwards of five centuries. There are some reports of current-day vor'tai that claim to have served in this 'Astral War' of eld. Nonsense, surely. Perhaps there have been many Astral Wars? Alignment. Vor’tai nowadays come from all sides of the cosmic spectrum, but still carry much of their history as astral servants with them. Vor’tai of all alignments can reasonably be found, but on average they skew more towards the lawful end of the spectrum as a result. Size. Vor’tai stand approximately six to eight feet tall. Your size is Medium. Speed. You have a base walking speed of 30 feet. Astral Intellect. You can communicate telepathically with a creature within 30 feet of you. You do not need to share a language, but the creature must be capable of understanding at least one language. You have resistance to psychic damage. Mind’s Eye 1 . Vor’tai view the world not through eyes of their own, but through the psychic ripples emanated from other creatures’ perception and understanding. You can see everything creatures within 30 feet of you see but are otherwise blind. A creature aware of you and your sense can block their vision from you on a successful Intelligence saving throw. The DC for this saving throw is equal to 8 + your Intelligence modifier + your proficiency bonus. Psychic Understanding. Your psychic senses allow you to tune into a creature’s empathic currents, granting you proficiency in the Insight skill. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Vor. Vor Texts and the Psychal Script As vor see the world psychically rather than visually, their idea of a physical text is drastically different from other peoples’. Physical text written by vor is written in the psychal script, a form of embossed writing that vor read by running their fingers over it. This psychal script has an additional layer where the author imbues it with feelings, memories, or images during the writing phase, which vor experience while reading it. As a result, much psychal script is disjointed and strange to others, as these two aspects are used in conjunction with one another, and mortals reading longer passages of psychal script usually find the experience to be one where they only have half the story. 1 – If this feels too weird or like too much of a headache to manage at the table, you can alternatively just have 30 feet of blindsight and be blind beyond that range. Or just use normal vision.

**properties**:
- Category: Races
- Expansion: 16222

**publisher**: Animancer

**book**: Enchiridion Vaz’kin’rai

