# Wasteland Orc

**description**: At first glance, the orcs of the wastelands seem little different from their mountain- or forest-dwelling brethren. But they are in some ways more predictable and less savage than other orcs and will sometimes interact with other humanoids for trade or companionship. Of course, when circumstances permit, wasteland orcs enjoy bloodshed and war just as much as their kin. LEAN AND LANKY Wasteland orcs are noticeably thinner and taller than other orcs, with wiry, muscular frames. Their skin tone also tends to be of different hues, with tan, orange, or yellowish skin being common and grayish or greenish skin rare. Their hair is coarse and typically dark brown or black, though bone-white or ashen hair is not unheard of. Wasteland orcs have the general facial features of other orcs, with jutting tusks and flat, broad noses. Unlike regular orcs, however, their eyes are slanted and surrounded by thick folds of skin that protect them from stinging dust and airborne pollutants. LEARNING THE LAND Few humanoids are more adept at surviving in the wastes than wasteland orcs, because of their ability to locate fresh water, sniff out potential danger, and resist the effects of chaotic magic. Young wasteland orcs are taught all the skills they need to survive in a harsh world, and they know from an early age that failure to learn these lessons leads to a quick death. Though dealing with wasteland orcs can be challenging, they have been known to guide travelers through dangerous areas or serve as guards for merchants passing through the badlands. Some wasteland orc tribes engage in primitive protection rackets, protecting caravans that travel through their territory from attacks by bandits or dust goblins in return for a suitable “donation.” WASTELAND SETTLERS Wasteland orcs live in heavily fortified camps where they engage in practices that other orcs would see as ludicrous or unbecoming, such as vegetable farming and the raising of goats and other livestock. While this way of life might seem strange to onlookers, wasteland orcs understand that relying on hunting and raiding for sustenance in the desolate wastes is a surefire way to risk starvation. Almost every wasteland orc encampment features a fighting pit or similar location where young orcs can test their mettle against prisoners, fierce animals, and monsters such as owlbears. A visitor to one of these strongholds can earn the orcs’ respect by stepping into a fighting pit and coming out alive. WASTELAND ORC TRAITS Your wasteland orc character has the following traits. Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. Ability Score Increase. Your Strength increases by 2, and your Constitution score increases by 1. Age. Wasteland orcs reach adulthood at the age of 14. Most wasteland orcs rarely reach 30 years of age because of the threats that exist in the barren lands. Wasteland orcs who take up residence in more civilized settings typically survive twice as long. Alignment. Wasteland orcs are not as chaotic in temperament as other orcs. Many of them tend toward neutrality, but no orcs in the wasteland are ever lawful. Good-aligned wasteland orcs are rare but not unheard of. Size. Wasteland orcs tower over most other humanoids, most reaching upward of 8 feet in height, but are still considered Medium creatures. Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. Aggressive. You can use a bonus action to move up to your speed toward a hostile creature that you can see. Chaos Resistance. You have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects that have the chaos descriptor and against the special attacks and spell-like abilities of chaotic aberrations and fiends. Wasteland Awareness. You have proficiency in the Wisdom (Survival) skill. In addition, you apply double your proficiency bonus to checks for this skill when you try to locate fresh, unpolluted drinking water or when you want to determine whether an area is free of dangerous creatures or hazards. Wasteland Resilience. You can survive for extended periods without sustenance. You can go without food or water for a number of days equal to 6 + twice your Constitution modifier before you begin to suffer the effects of exhaustion. In addition, the heavy folds of skin around your eyelids grant you advantage on saving throws against the effects of airborne dust particles and similar substances that could cause blindness or otherwise impair your vision. Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Orcish.

**properties**:
- Category: Races

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

