# Aberrant Sextant

**description**: Aberrant Sextant Wondrous Item, artifact (requires attunement) Like a standard sextant, this tool is an aid to navigation, using the distant horizon and the celestial bodies in the sky as reference points to establish the user’s current position. Unlike a standard sextant, however, this device can be used to travel to another plane of existence. To use an aberrant sextant, you must be attuned to it, be aboard a vehicle, such as a boat, airship, or carriage, and have an unobstructed view of the sky and the horizon. On planes without a sky or a horizon, you must have a clear view of the area around you. For instance, you cannot be in a ship’s cabin, even if you are looking out a window, but must be on the deck of the ship or in the crow’s nest. You must spend 10 minutes using the sextant to determine your location and the route to your destination. At the end of that time, you speak the name of the plane of existence you want to travel to, such as the Shadowfell or the Elemental Plane of Air, or the name of a location on your current plane of existence. A portal large enough for your vehicle and its passengers opens in front of you and remains open only long enough for the vehicle to pass through. The vehicle emerges at the desired destination, and the portal immediately closes behind you before any other creatures or vehicles can make use of it. Once the sextant is used in this manner, it can’t be used again until the next dawn. You can name a specific location on another plane of existence, such as the City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of Fire. You appear at or near that destination, at the GM’s discretion. If the specific location does not exist, you arrive at a similar area (a different area that’s visually or thematically similar to the target area) on that plane of existence. Sextant Components An aberrant sextant is made up of five main components, each a powerful magic item in its own right that functions if it is detached from the sextant. If any component is removed from the sextant, the sextant becomes unusable until all the separated parts are reinstalled. Detaching a component or reinstalling one takes 1 minute of work. Being able to use a detached component requires attunement, and the creature attuned to the component must hold the item to make use of its features. Index Mirror. When it is attached to the sextant, this mirror catches the reflection of the celestial body being used to determine the vessel’s position. If you are attuned to the index mirror separately, you have advantage on Intelligence (Nature) checks. In addition, you can use a bonus action to assume stardust form for 1 hour. In this form, your outline is hazy and you glitter like starlight, shedding dim light in a 10-foot radius. You become incorporeal, along with everything you’re wearing or carrying, and you have a walking speed of 120 feet. You have resistance to nonmagical damage, and you have advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. You move through other creatures and objects as if their spaces were difficult terrain. If you end your turn inside an object, you take 4d10 force damage. While in stardust form, you can’t speak or manipulate objects, and any objects you are carrying or holding can’t be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. You can’t attack or cast spells. You can use a bonus action to end this effect early; if you do, choose one of the following effects: Each creature within 30 feet of you regains 8d10 hit points. Each creature within 30 feet of you takes 4d10 cold damage and 4d10 radiant damage. Once you use the index mirror’s stardust form feature, that feature can’t be used again until the next dawn. Horizon Mirror. When it is attached to the sextant, this mirror displays the horizon and the celestial body reflected by the index mirror. If you are attuned to the horizon mirror separately, you have advantage on skill checks using navigator’s tools. In addition, you can cast the following spells at will: arcane eye, clairvoyance, find the path, locate creature , and scrying . Eyepiece. Resembling a small telescope, the eyepiece is used to sight through when it is attached to the sextant. If you are attuned to the eyepiece separately, you have advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) checks. In addition, you can use your reaction to capture the soul of a humanoid when it dies. The soul becomes trapped within the eyepiece and remains there until you use an action to release it, after which you can capture a different soul if the opportunity presents itself. The soul can perceive its surroundings from inside the eyepiece using its own senses, but it can’t move or take actions. You can communicate telepathically with the soul. Arc. When it is attached to the sextant, the arc pivots to display the measurement of the angle between the horizon and the celestial body. If you are attuned to the arc separately, you gain a +1 bonus to Intelligence saving throws. In addition, you can cast the following spells at will: detect magic, fabricate, identify , and mending . Index Arm. When it is attached to the sextant, the index arm supports the index mirror and indicates the correct measurement of the angle on the arc. If you are attuned to the index arm separately, you have advantage on Dexterity saving throws. In addition, you can use a bonus action to cause a blade of silver starlight to spring forth from the index arm, which serves as the hilt of the weapon. The blade can take the form of a longsword, a short sword, a rapier, or a dagger (your choice), and it deals 3d6 cold damage. You are proficient with this weapon. The blade remains until you dismiss it.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

