# Adder's Embrace

**description**: The Adder’s Embrace carries wicked surprises from the serpent coiled around its spike. Legend Legend says the warlord Tyrax created this pike using a serpent from her medusa lieutenant’s head. Under this new standard, her armies ravaged the land. Stories vary as to whether her lieutenant usurped command, or the pike was hidden by Tyrax until the day she returns from an unknown plane to unite the world beneath her banner. Location The Adder’s Embrace can often be found as a trophy on the battlefield, in the reliquary of a war deity’s shrine, or as the prized weapon of a despotic general. Encounter Ideas Stone Clutches. Adder’s Embrace is trapped in the grips of both medusa and adventurer, mid-bite as they petrified each other. Another medusa guards the statues until their stone love can be restored. Battlefield Demotion. A baron sneaks a message through enemy lines promising reward for stealing a besieging army’s battle standard ( Adder’s Embrace ) in order to undercut their morale. Stopped in Time. An NPC begs the party to retrieve the pike to petrify their twin until a cure for the curse afflicting them is found. Progression Adder’s Embrace progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. Statistics Weapon (Pike), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . The pike has 3 charges. The pike regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. Snakebite. As a bonus action, you can expend 1 charge to make a melee attack with the pike’s serpent head. On a hit, the pike deals 1d4 piercing damage plus 2 poison damage. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Its total number of charges increases to 5 and it now regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Lunging Coils. As an action, you can expend 2 charges to cause the serpent to lock around a Large or smaller creature within the weapon’s reach, grappling the target (escape DC 10). Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, the DC of Lunging Coils increases to 13, its total number of charges increases to 7, and it now regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Blinding Venom. As an action, you can expend 3 charges to spit venom from the serpent’s mouth in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in the cone must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take 5 poison damage and be blinded until the end of their next turn. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3, the DCs of its abilities increase to 15, the total number of charges increases to 9 and it now regains 1d8 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Petrify. As an action, you can expend 6 charges to cast flesh to stone (save DC 15) from the weapon. Legendary . The DCs of the weapon’s abilities increase to 17, its total number of charges increases to 11 and it now regains 1d10 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. While attuned to the pike, your Dexterity score increases by 2, as does your maximum for that score.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (pike)
- Properties: Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

