# Alseid's Peony

**description**: Magic plant, rare Themes: Guidance, secrets, and teamwork Environments: In druidic circles, along animal paths, beside anthills Alseid’s peony is a flowering plant with large, many-petaled blooms in shades of white, pink, and red. Its flowers have bright yellow centers and close at night or in cloudy conditions. Minor Wort. As an action, you can tear an alseid peony bloom from its stem to summon a small, red-petaled creature called a bloomling. The blooming uses the statistics of an awakened shrub and lasts for 1 hour or until destroyed. It is friendly to you and your companions. In combat, roll initiative for the shrub, which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands that you issue to it (no action required by you). If you don’t issue any commands to the shrub, it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions. At the end of the duration or when it is destroyed, the bloomling crumbles into a pile of petals and sticks. Ceremony Wort (3rd Level). While holding a handful of alseid peony petals, you can spend 10 minutes concentrating on a specific location, such as Bentbow Bay, Splitleaf Village, or Worg’s Crag, then scatter the petals before you. The petals fall gently to the ground and land in the shape of an arrow, pointing toward the location you imagined. The petals scatter and don’t land in the shape of an arrow if the location doesn’t exist or if the location is on another plane of existence. A clump of petals forms at the point of the arrow if a major obstacle exists between your current location and the desired location, such as a magical barrier, a miles-long wall, or a desert, river, or other naturally occurring obstacle. This wort requires 2 cuttings of alseid peony. Cultivated Wort. A garden of alseid peonies that has been cultivated for at least 4 weeks whispers secrets, lore, and rumors to those who listen. Each peony bloom whispers, in the same language and voice as the original speaker, any words spoken within the bounds of the garden since the peony’s first blooming. To those standing in or near the garden, these whispers sound like wind through leaves, but a creature can put an ear next to a bloom to hear everything the bloom whispers. The peonies have no intelligence and don’t differentiate truth from lies or past from present or future. They simply repeat words spoken in the garden. For particularly old alseid peony gardens, the peonies might whisper fragments of conversations out of order or from different years. In addition, the zone of truth spell can’t be cast inside of or within 100 feet of the garden, but creatures that can naturally distinguish truth from lies, such as planetars, know which whispers are lies.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

