# Amzy's Trophy

**description**: Swift to strike and pure of heart, the wielder of Amzy’s Trophy is a shimmering force of protection for their allies. Legend A headstrong duelist, the first and last fight the half-orc mage T’ra Veth lost ended with her opponent—Amzy Repromer—casting true polymorph , permanently turning T’ra Veth into a unicorn. As their prize, the opponent snapped off T’ra Veth’s horn, which was fashioned into a dagger by Amzy’s daughter as a way to decoratively display the trophy. Location Amzy’s Trophy was last seen on the mantle above the fireplace in Amzy’s tower, although rumors claim the dagger will be transferred to a nearby magical university for public display. Encounter Ideas Home Visit. The adventurers are invited to dinner at the home of a famous elf, Amzy Repromer (uses the archmage stat block but replaces time stop with true polymorph in her spell list) who gloats about the item if asked about it. She is unaware of its evolving properties, however. Birthright. A centaur with a single horn protruding from his forehead is found threatening an elderly Amzy ( mage ), who wields the dagger, claiming it belongs to his mother. For Display Only. The dagger is on display at a magical university beside a placard detailing its history and progression abilities. The glass case is trapped with a glyph of warding and the entire exhibit is protected by magical means. Progression Amzy’s Trophy progresses any time it reduces an evil-aligned creature with a CR equal to or greater than the attuned character’s level to 0 hit points. Statistics Weapon (Dagger), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Your hit point maximum increases by 5 while you are attuned to this weapon. Uncommon . When you score a critical hit with this weapon, the attack deals an extra 1d8 piercing damage. Additionally, on a critical hit, you can activate a Celestial Shield option. Celestial Shield (Self). You gain a +2 bonus to AC until the end of your next turn. Rare . The extra piercing damage dealt on a critical hit increases to 2d8. In addition, the weapon gains the following Celestial Shield option. Celestial Shield (Them). You form a protective shield around another creature you can see within 15 feet, granting them a +2 bonus to AC until the end of your next turn. You can activate a Celestial Shield option as a bonus action, without needing to score a critical hit. Once you have activated a Celestial Shield option this way, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest. Very Rare . The weapon gains the following Celestial Shield option. Celestial Shield (Us). You form a protective shield around yourself and one other creature you can see within 30 feet. You each gain a +2 bonus to AC until the end of your next turn. The weapon deals an extra 1d8 piercing damage on a hit. Legendary . The extra piercing damage the weapon deals on a hit increases to 2d8. In addition, the weapon gains the following Celestial Shield option. Celestial Shield (We). You may form a protective shield around yourself and up to 2 other creatures you can see within 60 feet. You each gain a +3 bonus to AC until the end of your next turn. This weapon ignores all resistance and immunity to piercing damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 29229
- Item Type: Weapon (dagger)
- Properties: Finesse, Light, Thrown
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

