# Anuraag’s Crucible

**description**: Wondrous Item, Artifact Thousands of years ago, a powerful alkemancer named Anuraag constructed an enormous crucible in his quest to create the perfect organism. He hoped it would bring forth an immortal being that could surpass the limitations imposed by human flesh and surpass even the gods. Anuraag used the crucible to create so many monstrosities that eventually the local deities had to take action against him. The alkemancer was destroyed for his impertinence, and his crucible was sealed away at the bottom of a mighty chasm. Anuraag’s crucible is an enormous object fashioned from white clay and engraved with mystical symbols chased with burnished copper and electrum. The crucible is large enough to hold a single Huge creature, two Large creatures, four Medium creatures, or eight Small ones. If one or more creatures are placed in the crucible and the crucible is heated over an intense, magical flame, each creature must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw against the crucible’s powerful transmutation magic. If this saving throw fails, the creature’s body liquefies and the creature is blinded, deafened, and paralyzed until the transformation is complete. The creature’s equipment doesn’t dissolve; as a result, most creatures are stripped naked before being placed in the crucible. Over the course of 10 minutes, the liquefied creature transforms into another creature. If this transformation is interrupted, the transforming creature is slain. It can be brought back to life in its original form by a resurrection spell or similar magic. If the process reaches completion, the creature transforms into another creature as if affected by a shapechange spell. The transformed creature must make a successful DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or lose its memory and all its previous abilities, traits, and features, which are replaced by the blank mind of a newly born version of the creature it transformed into. Whether or not a creature retains its mental faculties, the newly assumed form is permanent. At that point, the creature can regain its former form (and memories and abilities) only through a wish spell. Constructs and undead are immune to the crucible’s power, as is any creature that has the Shapechanger trait, such as a doppelganger. To determine what a creature transforms into, roll a d20 and consult the following table. d20 Creature 01 Aboleth 02 Ape 03 Basilisk 04 Camel 05 Cat 06 Chimera 07 Dire wolf 08 Gargoyle 09 Giant fly 10 Giant lizard 11 Giant toad 12 Gibbering mouther 13 Griffon 14 Harpy 15 Lamia 16 Manticore 17 Mastiff 18 Spirit naga 19 Tiger 20 New life form (GM’s choice) Destroying the Crucible. Anuraag’s crucible can be destroyed if a celestial and a fiend, both of at least Challenge rating 15, willingly allow themselves to be transformed at the same time. If this happens, the crucible can’t take the burden of transforming both creatures and shatters in a spectacular explosion that deals 20d6 piercing damage to all creatures in a 60‑foot radius, or half as much damage with a successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Artifact

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 1

