# Armageddon Sphere

**description**: Armageddon Sphere Wondrous item, legendary Five adamantine bands slowly revolve around the diamond sphere at the heart of this floating eldritch machine. Four of the bands bear the symbols of the elements—fire, water, earth, and air. The fifth band is emblazoned with an image of a dragon. Long ago, a forgotten civilization used spheres such as this to power flying cities, far-ranging void vessels, or planar rituals of unfathomable power. Today, the sphere can’t be used as a power source, only as an evil apocalyptic weapon. Activating the armageddon sphere requires sacrificing elementals of CR 10 or higher, feeding the essence of each creature into the appropriate adamantine band. Next, the heartblood of an Adult or older dragon must be poured onto the fifth band. Once this is accomplished, the sphere begins pulsing with the build-up of energy, and a single golden dial appears on the surface of the sphere. You can use an action to set the dial to a number of minutes or hours (user’s choice), and then set a number between 1 and 200. Once the dial is set, nothing can prevent the countdown to detonation, apart from a wish spell or divine intervention. When the timer reaches 0, the armageddon sphere detonates in an explosion of force and magic out to a 10-mile radius with the following effects: Every living thing that is 1 mile or less from the sphere must make a DC 25 Constitution saving throw, taking 50 force damage plus 25d10 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If this reduces the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated. All structures within this distance are destroyed, as are all nonmagical objects that aren’t being worn or held. Every creature and living thing that is between 1 mile and 5 miles from the sphere must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 25 force damage plus 15d10 necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. All nonmagical structures and objects within this distance take double damage. Every creature and living thing that is between 5 miles and 10 miles from the sphere must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 15 force damage plus 5d10 necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Nonmagical structures and objects within this distance take half of this damage. Creatures within the radius that succeed on the saving throw to survive the detonation of the sphere suffer random mutations as determined by the GM. All terrain within the blast radius becomes difficult terrain for 1d10 years and contains living spells, quicksand, mutated creatures, and other hazards as determined by the GM. Any creature attempting to cast a spell or use a magical item within the radius has a 10% failure rate for 1d4 years. Magical healing is suppressed for 1 year within the radius. After that duration, spells and other magical effects that heal hit point damage only heal half the usual amount.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Wastes of Chaos

