# Armor of the Otherworldly Invoker - Affirmed

**description**: Armor of the Otherworldly Invoker Armor (any), Evolving Artifact (requires attunement by a warlock) Created by an ancient warlock who ascended to godhood and became the patron of others, this polymorphic armor bestows tremendous power to warlocks who seek mastery of arcane secrets. However, dark sages and mad occultists warn that this otherworldly power comes at a price… Affirmed. While wearing the armor, you gain the following benefits: The armor grants you a +1 bonus to AC. As an action, you can cause the armor to assume any light, medium, or heavy armor type. You suffer no harm in temperatures as cold as -20 degrees Fahrenheit or as warm as 120 degrees Fahrenheit while wearing this armor. You can cast prestidigitation at will. Promised (level 5). After you reach level 5, the armor increases in power, gaining the following additional properties: The AC bonus of the armor increases to +2. You gain one extra eldritch invocation of your choice. Once chosen, you gain the same invocation whenever you attune to this item again. You can only replace this invocation when you gain a warlock level. You can use a bonus action to sense other warlocks of the same otherworldly patron type as you within 1 mile of you for 1 minute. You can use this bonus action a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses of it at the next dawn. Sworn (level 11). After you reach level 11, the armor is further empowered, gaining the following additional properties: The AC bonus of the armor increases to +3. You gain a second extra eldritch invocation of your choice. Once chosen, you gain the same invocation whenever you attune to this item again. You can only replace this invocation when you gain a warlock level. The armor functions as a Ring of Spell Storing . Devoted (level 17). After you reach level 17, the armor achieves its full potential, gaining the following additional properties: The AC bonus of the armor becomes equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 3). You gain a second pact boon of your choice. Once chosen, you gain the same pact boon whenever you attune to this item again. Optional Rule: Strings Attached At the gamemaster’s discretion, attuning to and using the Armor of the Otherworldly Invoker may come at a cost and require sacrifices that go beyond the terms of a warlock’s original pact. The armor may be cursed so that a warlock cannot willingly remove it without the aid of remove curse or similar magic, or it may be tied to a specific otherworldly patron, making it usable only as long as the warlock remains loyal to that patron. Optional Rule: Story-Based Evolution The Armor of the Otherworldly Invoker is an evolving artifact that is typically found in its Affirmed state and increases in power as its wearer gains levels. At the gamemaster’s discretion, the armor’s evolution can be tied to significant events during the campaign, such as its wearer besting a rival warlock, discovering some hidden truth about their patron, or saving their patron from a terrible fate. As an evolving artifact, the armor is powerful in all tiers of play regardless of its state.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Armor (any)
- Item Rarity: evolving artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by a warlock

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

