# Artes Bellator

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) The pages of Artes Bellator contain biographies of famous warriors, weapon techniques for a wide variety of different armaments, accounts of military tactics, and monster fighting advice. The illustrations are etched with rare inks and gleam with their own inner radiance. The owner of the grimoire gradually becomes compulsive about cleaning and maintaining their arms and armor. If attuned to it, you can use the grimoire as a spellcasting focus, and it functions as a spellbook for you. The spells listed below count as spells for your spellcasting class. If you are not a spellcaster and you attune to this grimoire, you gain three spell slots that you can use to cast the spells found within it, requiring no components. You can choose either Wisdom or Charisma for your spellcasting ability. All of your spell slots are the same level, as shown below. You recover all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest. Only the spells listed below can be cast in this way, even if other spells are subsequently added to the book. Character Level Spell Slot Level 1st 1st 3rd 2nd 5th 3rd 7th 4th 9th 5th 11th 6th 13th 7th In addition, while this tome is in your possession, you gain a +2 bonus to your AC when you hold it in a free hand. The grimoire functions in all aspects as if it were a shield. You can’t hold Artes Bellator and wield a shield at the same time. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: broken charge*, cure wounds, shield of faith 2nd level: branding smite, templar’s bellow* 3rd level: beacon of hope, brilliant harrier* 4th level: bark bulwark*, freedom of movement 5th level: commune, hero of fable* 6th level: Een’s armor of glass* 7th level: heaven’s spear* 8th level: holy aura 9th level: horn of heroes* Tome of Armaments (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. Saving throws for its features equal your spell save DC. 5th level. As a bonus action, you can plunge your hand into the open page of the Artes Bellator and withdraw any nonmagical ranged or one-handed melee weapon of your choice. You are proficient with it while you wield it. The weapon counts as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage. Weapons created by the grimoire vanish after 1 minute or if the grimoire is not on your person or if you use this feature again. Once you have withdrawn a weapon from the grimoire, you can use a bonus action to exchange it for a different weapon. In addition, if you have the Pact of the Blade class feature and you attune to this grimoire, you can draw your pact blades from the grimoire. If you do so, your pact weapons deal an extra 1d4 damage. 9th level. The weapons produced by the grimoire gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls. In addition, when you hit a creature with one of the grimoire’s weapons, you can choose for it to deal an extra 2d6 radiant damage. You can apply this extra damage three times and recover all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest. 13th level. The weapons produced by the grimoire gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls, and the extra radiant damage increases to 3d6. In addition, when you hit an evil creature with your grimoire weapon, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw. The DC equals 8 + your Wisdom or Charisma modifier (your choice) + your proficiency bonus. On a failed save, the target is frightened of you until the beginning of your next turn. 17th level. The weapons produced by the grimoire gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls, and you can choose for the extra radiant damage to instead be extra force damage. In addition, if you score a critical hit with a grimoire weapon, you can choose to shatter the item currently held by the target, destroying it. Items or weapons incapable of being destroyed are instead flung 2d10 feet away in the direction of your choice. Quirks of the Artes Bellator. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Artes Bellator table. Quirks of the Artes Bellator d8 Quirk 1 A dark and evil twin of the grimoire exists somewhere in the world. It must be destroyed. 2 Sometimes the heroes described in the book whisper advice to you. 3 You believe a fell curse is slowly corrupting the grimoire and seek a possible remedy. 4 You can enthusiastically talk about weapons with anyone, anywhere, for a long time. 5 You feel it is your duty to instruct others in the minutia of martial combat. 6 You search for someone worthy to wield the tome and test possible candidates rigorously. 7 You treat the items created by the grimoire as if they are gifts from the gods. 8 You write your exploits into the grimoire, updating it as your journeys continue.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

