# Ascension

**description**: “The queens of Kinkale have been crowned with Ascension for 350 years. If the elves won’t return it, we’ll raise their wode to the ground. Who’s with me?” —Last Speech of Queen Edwina Kinkale Legend Ascension served as the crown jewels of Kinkale and as their rulers’ personal weapon for generations. With the sword at their side, successive queens swept out to conquer more and more land, until Edwina Kinkale was routed by the elves of the Wailing Wode and forced to relinquish Ascension as tribute. Desperate to reclaim the icon of her kingdom, she led her entire army into the forest a few years later. None returned. Location The sword lies at the heart of the Wailing Wode, an ancient forest with a bloodthirsty reputation. The elves simply leaned their war prize against a tree and left it, though the wode ensures that reaching it is no trivial task. Encounter Ideas Birthright. A warrior named Tisiphone Kinkale claims to be a descendant of the queens of a long-lost kingdom and seeks adventurers willing to brave a man-eating forest to retrieve an ancient heirloom. Get It Out of Here. The elves of the Wailing Wode gift Ascension to the party in return for services rendered but warn them that a noblewoman has been sending wave after wave of mercenaries to retrieve it. They don’t care how the party deals with the noble; they just want to be rid of the blade so the intrusions stop. A Tool for Conquest. A character that is interested in claiming and ruling territory discovers or is rewarded with lore about Ascension , a sword that makes its wielder more effective at leading a kingdom. Progression Ascension progresses each time its owner significantly increases the size of the territory they rule, as determined by the GM. Statistics Weapon (Greatsword), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Uncommon . While attuned to this magic weapon, you have advantage on Charisma checks made to advance the interests of the territory you rule, such as negotiating a treaty or securing resources for your kingdom. It is not intended for checks that only benefit you personally. Rare . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Luster of Rule. As an action, you can cast the charm person spell. If the target has a CR of 1/2 or less, the duration increases to 1 year. While charmed, the target views you as an exceptional ruler and is more amenable to offering their services to your territory. Once used, this property can’t be used again for 7 days. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Impeccable Statesperson. Whenever you make a Charisma check or saving throw, you can roll an additional d20. You can choose to do this after you roll the initial die, but before the outcome is determined. You choose which of the d20s is used. You can use this property a number of times equal to half your proficiency bonus and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. You can now use Impeccable Statesperson a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus between long rests.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (greatsword)
- Properties: Heavy, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

