# Assassin's Chain (Level 13)

**description**: This fine chain shirt is fashioned from thousands of tiny, interlocking rings of a mysterious black metal. The chain makes virtually no noise when worn. Gildreth was a killer. He killed for money; he killed for pleasure. In the end, he killed only for revenge. Gildreth had earned many enemies in his long career; chief among them were the Black Cabal. On a moonless night, while Gildreth was away, members of the Cabal infiltrated his home and murdered his family. When Gildreth returned and discovered his slain family, he vowed he would not rest until every last member of the Cabal was dead by his own hand. One by one, Gildreth tracked down and assassinated the Cabal. He was relentless and single-minded, allowing nothing to stand in his way. Not even his death. As Gildreth was infiltrating the fortress of the Cabal’s leader, he felt a sharp and sudden pain—a thin sword blade was protruding from his chest! Blood poured from the wicked wound and down his chain shirt. Gildreth gasped, his eyes grew dim, and he fell lifelessly to the floor. Then Gildreth’s eyes snapped opened. He felt his life surging back into his body! The tiny chain rings of his armor had turned a deep black and showed no sign of the deadly wound. He understood immediately—not even Death itself would stop him! In time, the last of the Black Cabal lay dying at Gildreth’s feet. At that moment, Gildreth suddenly felt his own life slipping away, and he understood at last. Death had allowed him to live only long enough to complete his vendetta. The fate of Gildreth’s strange chain shirt is unknown. Perhaps it found its way to another soul seeking vengeance… Armor (chain shirt), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing this armor, your steps make no sound, regardless of the surface you are moving across. You also have proficiency in the Stealth skill. Power of the Assassin (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks that rely on moving silently. During your first turn, you have advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn. Any hit you score against a surprised creature is a critical hit. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC. In addition, you can cast the silence spell from the armor. Once used, the armor can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1. In addition, you can cast the invisibility spell from the armor. Once used, the armor can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. In addition, when you successfully hit a creature that is surprised, it must make a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus). On a failed save, double the damage of your attack against the creature.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Medium Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

