# Avalanche Smasher

**description**: Tarana stood at the village gates and smashed her flail into the earth, splitting the snowslide in twain. Legend With beautiful vistas and bountiful game, the Pale Mist Mountains should be a frontiersman’s paradise, but sudden, severe avalanches make settlements there a risky endeavor. After one such snowslide destroyed the town of Mistrest, a survivor scaled the range’s tallest peak and entreated the dragon living there to grant her the means to defend her village. Moved by her plight, the dragon shed three tears, which became the first heads of this flail. Location Tarana keeps Avalanche Smasher at her home in Mistrest. She is loath to part with it unless the party offers her another way to protect her village. Encounter Ideas Skip the Haggling. Auntie Mothbreath, a night hag , stole Avalanche Smasher to use in a vile ritual. Tarana hires the party to kill the hag and retrieve the flail. Tremors. It is purple worm mating season, and they are causing earthquakes and snowslides in the region. The mayor of a mountainside town needs someone to travel to Mistrest to borrow Avalanche Smasher until the season is over. Head in a Box. The party finds one of Avalanche Smasher’s heads, unidentified, in a chest. What is it? Progression The tears of a cold-breathing dragon form new heads that can be attached to the flail. Statistics Weapon (Flail), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Avalanche Smasher has a number of charges equal to twice its number of heads. It regains 1 charge per head daily at dawn. Heads by Rarity Rarity Number of Heads Common 1 Uncommon 2 Rare 3 Very Rare 4 Legendary 5 While holding this magic weapon, you can expend 2 or more of its charges to activate one of its properties. The saving throw DC for this weapon’s properties is equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier. Infuse (2 Charges). As a bonus action, you infuse biting frost into the weapon. The next time you hit a creature with an attack using Avalanche Smasher , the attack deals an extra 1d6 cold damage per head and the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have their speed halved until the end of their next turn. Avalanche Break (4 Charges). When you are targeted by an effect that deals cold damage in an area, you can use your reaction to create a 60-foot cone originating from the flail. The effect is nullified inside this area. If the flail has four or more heads, the cone is 120 feet instead. Flash Freeze (4 Charges). As an action, you channel the frost from Avalanche Smasher into the flesh of a creature you can see within 30 feet. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or become frozen for 1 minute. While frozen, the creature is immune to cold damage and vulnerable to bludgeoning, force, and thunder damage. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (flail)
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

