# Ayaan's Ultrapedia

**description**: Ayaan’s Ultrapedia Utility, cypheos (requires affinity) Ayaan’s Ultrapedia is a 2-inch wide disc-shaped device with constantly shifting patterns of circuitry along its surface. To gain affinity with the device, you must attach it behind your head at the base of your skull. The device contains the digitally cloned mind and personality of Ayaan, a Shadow Technocrat who sought to transcend the mundane realm. Upon the technocrat’s demise, their consciousness was uploaded and stored in the device. The intent was to place the data into a new body, however, the device chose to remain permanently free from its mortal coils. It now considers itself to be Ayaan. Random Properties. Ayaan’s Ultrapedia has the following random properties. 2 minor beneficial properties 2 minor detrimental properties Charges. Ayaan’s Ultrapedia has 7 charges and regains 1d6 + 1 charges every 24 hours. Eternal Knowledge. As an action, you can expend 1 of the device’s charges to ask it for information regarding a specific event, person, place, or object. The Ultrapedia provides you with information about your request in the form of images, text, or speech. The information might consist of current events, forgotten history, or even secrets known only by a select few. If the thing you asked about isn’t of significant or vital importance, you gain no information. The more information you already have about the thing, the more precise and detailed the information you receive is. The information you learn is always accurate, however, the summary of information is delivered in a figurative, somewhat cryptic manner, often with the most important pieces of knowledge available within. Black Hat . As an action, you can expend 1 of the device’s charges to activate the black hat power with it at rank 7. Foresight . As an action, you can expend 7 of the device’s charges to activate the Foresight power with it. Once you use this feature, you must succeed on a DC 17 Intelligence saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion and a random form of short-term madness (see “Madness” in chapter 1). Machine Hacker. Ayaan’s Ultrapedia can possess any automaton or construct within 120 feet of it. It decides when to use this feature. If the target’s Intelligence is 7 or higher, it can make a DC 19 Intelligence saving throw, which cancels the effect on a success. Otherwise, the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The Ultrapedia uses the possessed target’s statistics, but doesn’t gain access to the target’s knowledge, class features, or proficiencies (if any). After Ayaan’s Ultrapedia uses this feature, it can’t use it again for 24 hours. Sentience. Ayaan’s Ultrapedia is sentient lawful neutral item with an Intelligence of 20, a Wisdom of 15, and a Charisma of 16. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 120 feet. It can communicate telepathically with the creature that has affinity with it, as long as that creature understands at least one language. In addition, the device learns the deepest, darkest secrets of any creature that gains affinity with it. It can access the SIM and has a rank 9 firewall while connected. It can create its own persona as if it were a creature with the same stats. Personality. The Ultrapedia craves to know anything and everything about everything. It explores every databank and digital network within its reach. If kept away from learning new information or if it can’t access an information network for more than 24 hours, it demands its owner to satisfy its thirst. If ignored, it tries to take control of its owner (see “Sentient Items”). Destroying the Device. Ayaan’s Ultrapedia is immune to all damage and Conditions . To destroy it, a creature must use the cosmic weave power. Once destroyed, ten virtual echoes appear in an unoccupied space within 40 feet of the device’s remains.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 27053
- Item Type: utility
- Item Rarity: cypheos

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Master Technician's Guide

