# Battlecaster's Armor (Level 9)

**description**: This fine mithral breastplate is light and exquisitely made. It is decorated with delicate arcane glyphs and symbols which glow with a soft, blue light. Long ago, the legendary warrior-mage known as Gax walked the land. Gax, later known to history as Gax the Great, was a mysterious figure renowned for his uncanny ability to weave together martial and magical combat in unique and powerful ways. An unparalleled master at crafting magic arms and armor, Gax is known for a number of fantastic, magical items. He is said to have created his first great item of magic when he was still a young apprentice. At that time, his master was an old wizard who mercilessly drilled the fundamentals of magic into the young apprentice’s mind. The studious old wizard also derisively dismissed Gax’s ideas for combining magic and battle and openly berated Gax for his love of swordplay, weaponry, and armor. Determined to prove that his theories were possible (and, truth be told, equally determined to spite his master), Gax apprenticed himself at the same time to a renowned weapon smith and armorer in a nearby town. The youth quickly proved as skilled at metalcraft as he was at magic. Young Gax spent his days in magical study and his nights working in the smith’s forge, crafting an exquisite breastplate of the finest mithral. He imbued the breastplate’s delicate glyphs and symbols with powerful protective magic far beyond the ability of magic-wielders many years his senior. When the breastplate was finally completed, Gax proudly showed it to his mentor. The smith was so impressed that he coveted it for himself, and he demanded that Gax give the breastplate to him. When Gax refused, the smith attempted to take it by force. At the end of a quick but violent scuffle, the smith lay dead near the very anvil on which Gax had finished his wondrous breastplate. Shocked and terrified, the boy fled, running to the small stone building where the old wizard lived. Hoping the wizard would be understanding about what happened and suitably impressed with Gax’s magical breastplate, the boy breathlessly recounted recent events. The old wizard was neither understanding nor impressed. He coldly chided Gax for wasting his time on a “trinket” and rebuked Gax for taking a life over “nothing more than a worthless piece of pretty metal.” Furious and defeated, Gax shouted profanities at his master before running off into the woods. Gax decided that he would make his way in the world on his own terms. He would learn everything he could about magic and combat, he would excel in both, and he would do whatever it took to fuse the two into what would eventually become known as the style of the battlecaster. From that day on, until the day he drew his final breath, Gax was never without his beloved battlecaster’s armor . Armor (breastplate), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a spellcaster) While wearing this mithral breastplate, you have advantage on Constitution saving throws that you make to maintain your concentration on a spell when you take damage. Potent Battlecaster (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. You can expend an unused spell slot of 1st level or higher to gain a bonus to AC and saving throws equal to the level of the spell slot expended for 1 minute. In addition, you can perform the somatic components of spells even when you have weapons or a shield in one or both hands. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC. Your spell save DC and spell attack bonus each increase by 1. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1. You have advantage on saving throws against spells. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. You have resistance to force damage. In addition, you can use an action to make yourself immune to force damage for 10 minutes. Once used, this property can’t be used again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Medium Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

