# Beholder Eye

**description**: Beholder Eye Spell catalyst, legendary A beholder has ten eyestalks, at the end of which are eyes capable of emitting a ray of magic. Each of these eyes can be used as a spell catalyst with an application depending on the type of ray it could fire before it was harvested. Charm Ray. When you cast the charm person or charm monster XGE spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, each target has disadvantage on its saving throw against the spell, and the spell’s duration becomes 24 hours. In addition, for the duration, each creature charmed by the spell considers you to be the most beautiful thing it has ever seen. Death Ray. When you cast the blight spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell ignores any resistance or immunity that target has against necrotic damage, the target has disadvantage on its saving throw against the spell, and the spell deals an additional 4d8 necrotic damage. In addition, the target dies if the spell reduces it to 0 hit points. Disintegration Ray. When you cast the disintegrate spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell ignores any resistance or immunity the target has against force damage and the spell deals an additional 20 force damage. In addition, if the spell targets a Huge or smaller object or creation of magical force, it is entirely disintegrated, rather than only a 10-foot-cube portion. If the target is a Gargantuan object or creation of force, the spell disintegrates a 15-foot-cube portion of it. Enervation Ray. When you cast the enervation XGE spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell lasts for its full duration without requiring concentration and the target has disadvantage on the Dexterity saving throw it makes against the spell. In addition, whenever the target takes necrotic damage from the spell, its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage dealt. It dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. Fear Ray. When you cast the fear spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell’s range changes to Self (60-foot cone), the spell lasts for its full duration without requiring concentration, and each target has disadvantage on its first saving throw against the spell. In addition, you can choose any number of creatures in the cone. Each of the chosen creatures automatically succeeds on its saving throw against the spell. Paralyzing Ray. When you cast the hold person or hold monster spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell lasts for its full duration without requiring concentration and each target has disadvantage on the first saving throw it makes against the spell. Petrification Ray. When you cast the flesh to stone spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, a creature restrained by the spell counts as having already failed two saving throws for the purposes of determining whether or not the creature becomes petrified by this spell. Sleep Ray. When you cast the sleep spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell’s duration becomes 24 hours, and instead of subtracting hit points starting with the creature with the lowest current hit points, each creature within 20 feet of the chosen point with current hit points no greater than the total rolled for the spell falls unconscious until the spell ends, the sleeper takes damage, or a creature uses its action to shake or slap the creature awake. Slowing Ray. When you cast the slow spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell lasts for its full duration without requiring concentration and each target has disadvantage on the first saving throw it makes against the spell. In addition, a target’s speed is reduced to 5 feet for the duration, instead of being halved, and it gains a further −2 penalty to its AC and Dexterity saving throws, to a total of −4. Telekinetic Ray. When you cast the telekinesis spell, you can choose to allow the spell to consume this spell catalyst. When you do, the spell lasts for its full duration without requiring concentration and you have advantage on spellcasting ability checks you make for the spell for its duration. In addition, you can move Gargantuan creatures and objects weighing up to 5,000 pounds.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Spell catalyst
- Item Rarity: legendary

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

