# Beholder Personal Tank

**description**: Beholder Personal Tank Wondrous item, legendary This item first appears to be a Large sealed iron sphere weighing 250 pounds. The sphere has a hidden catch, which can be found with a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Releasing the catch unlocks a hatch at one end of the sphere, allowing a Medium or smaller creature to crawl inside. Twelve levers are set in a row at the one end, each in a neutral position, able to move either up or down. When certain levers are used, the sphere transforms to resemble a beholder. The beholder personal tank is a Large object with the following statistics: Armor Class: 20 Hit Points: 200 Speed: 0 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover) Damage Immunities: poison, psychic To be used as a vehicle, the tank requires one pilot in the compartment. The pilot can use an action to move as many as two of the tank’s levers up or down. After each use, a lever goes back to its neutral position. Each lever, from left to right, functions as shown in the Beholder Personal Tank Levers table. Magic items are wonderfully useful in the right hands, so much so that it is not uncommon for adventurers to form a sort of friendship with their tools. Of course, this is also true in the literal sense if your weapon happens to be sentient. - Drizzt Beholder Personal Tank Levers Lever Up Down 1 The tank’s mechanical eyes extend, as well as a motor that allows the tank to fly. The tank begins to hover 5 feet off the ground. Levers 8-11 allow the pilot to fire a ray from the relevant mechanical eye at a creature it can see within 60 feet. The eyes must be extended to use these effects and each ray can only be used once per round. The eye rays and motor retract, reducing the tank’s speed to 0 and making it unable to benefit from bonuses to its speed. 2 Front window shutter opens. Front window shutter closes. 3 Side window shutters open (two per side). Side window shutters close (two per side). 4 The apparatus floats up to 15 feet upward. The apparatus floats downward up to 15 feet, to a minimum of 5 feet off the ground. 5 The apparatus flies up to 30 feet forward. The apparatus flies up to 30 feet backward. 6 The apparatus turns 90 degrees left. The apparatus turns 90 degrees right. 7 The tank emits bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. The light turns off. 8 Disintegration Ray. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 18 (4d8) force damage. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, its body becomes a pile of fine gray dust. If the target is a Large or smaller nonmagical object or creation of magical force, it is disintegrated without a saving throw. If the target is a Huge or larger nonmagical object or creation of magical force, this ray disintegrates a 10-foot cube of it. 9 Enervation Ray. The targeted creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 36 (8d8) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 10 Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 11 Paralyzing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 12 The rear hatch unseals and opens The rear hatch closes and seals.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary

**publisher**: Viscount Games

**book**: Drizzts Travelogue of Everything

