# Berserker Halberd

**description**: Weapon (Halberd), Rare (Requires Attunement) You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, while you are attuned to this weapon, your Hit Point maximum increases by 1 for each level you have attained. Curse. This weapon is cursed, and becoming attuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the weapon, keeping it within reach at all times. You also have Disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons other than this one. Whenever another creature damages you while the weapon is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. This berserk state ends when you start your turn and there are no creatures within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear. While berserk, you regard the creature nearest to you that you can see or hear as your enemy. If there are multiple possible creatures, choose one at random. On each of your turns, you must move as close to the creature as possible and take the Attack action, targeting the creature. If you’re unable to get close enough to the creature to attack it with the weapon, your turn ends after you’ve used up all your available movement. If the creature dies or can no longer be seen or heard by you, the next nearest creature that you can see or hear becomes your new target.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Theme: Armaments
- Mastery: Slashing
- Subtype: Weapon
- Expansion: 33335
- Item Type: martial
- data-List: false
- Properties: Reach, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: No
- filter-Lists: Melee Weapon, Martial Weapon, Yes
- filter-Damage: Heavy
- filter-Charges: No
- data-datarecords: [{"name":"Berserker Halberd","payload":"{\"type\":\"Item\",\"name\":\"Berserker Halberd\",\"description\":\"You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, while you are attuned to this weapon, your Hit Point maximum increases by 1 for each level you have attained.\\nCurse. This weapon is cursed, and becoming attuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the weapon, keeping it within reach at all times. You also have Disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons other than this one.\\nWhenever another creature damages you while the weapon is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. This berserk state ends when you start your turn and there are no creatures within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.\\nWhile berserk, you regard the creature nearest to you that you can see or hear as your enemy. If there are multiple possible creatures, choose one at random. On each of your turns, you must move as close to the creature as possible and take the Attack action, targeting the creature. If you're unable to get close enough to the creature to attack it with the weapon, your turn ends after you've used up all your available movement. If the creature dies or can no longer be seen or heard by you, the next nearest creature that you can see or hear becomes your new target.\",\"weight\":6,\"properties\":[\"Heavy\",\"Reach\",\"Two-Handed\"],\"cost\":\"4020 GP\",\"rarity\":\"Rare\",\"weaponData\":{\"category\":\"Melee\",\"training\":\"Martial\",\"type\":\"Halberd\"},\"equipData\":{\"equippable\":true}}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Attunement","parent":"Berserker Halberd","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attunement\"}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Attack","parent":"Berserker Halberd","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Berserker Halberd\",\"attack\":{\"type\":\"Melee\",\"abilityBonus\":\"Strength\",\"bonus\":1}}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Damage","parent":"Berserker Halberd Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"auto\",\"bonus\":1,\"damageType\":\"Slashing\",\"diceSize\":\"d10\"}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Hit Point Maximum Increase","parent":"Berserker Halberd Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Hit Points\",\"calculation\":\"Modify\",\"hitpointType\":\"Maximum\",\"valueFormula\":{\"customFormula\":\"@{level}\"},\"isTemp\":false}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Curse Condition","parent":"Berserker Halberd","payload":"{\"type\":\"Condition\",\"name\":\"Berserker Halberd Curse\",\"description\":\"As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the weapon, keeping it within reach at all times. You also have Disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons other than this one.\\nWhenever another creature damages you while the weapon is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. This berserk state ends when you start your turn and there are no creatures within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.\\nWhile berserk, you regard the creature nearest to you that you can see or hear as your enemy. If there are multiple possible creatures, choose one at random. On each of your turns, you must move as close to the creature as possible and take the Attack action, targeting the creature. If you're unable to get close enough to the creature to attack it with the weapon, your turn ends after you've used up all your available movement. If the creature dies or can no longer be seen or heard by you, the next nearest creature that you can see or hear becomes your new target.\"}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Curse Attack","parent":"Berserker Halberd Curse Condition","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Berserker Curse Save\",\"range\":\"Self\",\"description\":\"Whenever another creature damages you while the weapon is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk.\",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Wisdom\",\"saveFlat\":15,\"onFail\":\"You go berserk. This berserk state ends when you start your turn and there are no creatures within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.\\nWhile berserk, you regard the creature nearest to you that you can see or hear as your enemy. If there are multiple possible creatures, choose one at random. On each of your turns, you must move as close to the creature as possible and take the Attack action, targeting the creature. If you're unable to get close enough to the creature to attack it with the weapon, your turn ends after you've used up all your available movement. If the creature dies or can no longer be seen or heard by you, the next nearest creature that you can see or hear becomes your new target.\"}}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Disadvantage Effect","parent":"Berserker Halberd Curse Condition","payload":"{\"type\":\"Effect\",\"name\":\"Using a Weapon other than Berserker Halberd\",\"description\":\"As long as you remain cursed, you have Disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons other than this one.\",\"category\":[]}"},{"name":"Berserker Halberd Disadvantage Roll Bonus","parent":"Berserker Halberd Disadvantage Effect","payload":"{\"type\":\"Roll Bonus\",\"bonusCategory\":[\"Attacks\"],\"bonusName\":[],\"bonusDetails\":\"Keep Lowest\",\"bonusValue\":1,\"diceCount\":2}"}]
- filter-Attunement: Rare
- filter-Consumable: Cleave
- Name: Berserker Halberd
- Weight: 6
- data-description: You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, while you are attuned to this weapon, your Hit Point maximum increases by 1 for each level you have attained.
Curse. This weapon is cursed, and becoming attuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the weapon, keeping it within reach at all times. You also have Disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons other than this one.
Whenever another creature damages you while the weapon is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. This berserk state ends when you start your turn and there are no creatures within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.
While berserk, you regard the creature nearest to you that you can see or hear as your enemy. If there are multiple possible creatures, choose one at random. On each of your turns, you must move as close to the creature as possible and take the Attack action, targeting the creature. If you're unable to get close enough to the creature to attack it with the weapon, your turn ends after you've used up all your available movement. If the creature dies or can no longer be seen or heard by you, the next nearest creature that you can see or hear becomes your new target.
- Damage: 1d10
- Damage Type: Slashing
- data-RarityNum: 0

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Free Basic Rules (2024)

