# Birchwood Club

**description**: The curls of the birchwood club are inscribed with runes of the old world, said to be written in the language of nature herself. Legend Legends say that when reality was formed, the words of creation were written upon the bark of the first trees. Words of protection and health were written upon the first birch, one of whose limbs was fashioned into a club gifted by a goddess of nature to the warrior-queen Siubhan Suthurlanach to protect her people. Location Somewhere in the First Forest is the burial mound of Siubhan Suthurlanach, the birchwood club interred beside her. A treant protects the mound and her ghost returns if the site is disturbed. Encounter Ideas Birth-Might. The descendants of Siubhan are threatened by orcs, but legend speaks of a weapon that might defend them. They implore the characters to recover the Birchwood Club and aid the clan. Bark as Bad as His Bite. A fanatical druid , recently seen proclaiming the evils of urbanization in a nearby town square, is sending savage beasts to attack the settlement. He wields the Birchwood Club . Passing the Birch. A dying ranger stumbles across the party’s path. Carrying the Birchwood Club , she beseeches them to protect it from the nature-defiling cult who attacked Siubhan’s burial site. Progression The Birchwood Club progresses each time the attuned creature learns a new language, but it can be progressed only once between proficiency bonus increases. As the club progresses, additional curls form in the bark of the club’s wood, a rune inscribed on the underside. Statistics Weapon (Club), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement by a Creature Who Can Read) Common . Unless stated otherwise, each of the weapon’s properties can only be used once between long rests. Curl of Light. One curl forms on the club with the rune for light. You can use an action to rip the curl off and speak its command rune aloud, choosing a point that you can see within 100 feet as you do so. Bright white light fills a 30-foot-radius area emanating from that point for 1 minute. Uncommon . Curl of Growth. A second curl forms on the club, with the rune for growth. You can use an action to rip the curl off and speak its command rune aloud, choosing a creature you can see within 30 feet as you do so. The target grows in size, as per the enlarge/reduce spell, for 1 minute. Rare . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Curl of Health. A third curl forms on the club, with the rune for health. You can use an action to rip the curl off and speak its command rune aloud, choosing a creature you can see within 30 feet as you do so. The target regains 4d4 hit points and ends one disease or one condition of your choice afflicting it. The condition can be blinded, charmed, deafened, petrified, or poisoned; or you can reduce the target’s exhaustion level by one. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Curl of Protection. A fourth curl forms on the birchwood club, with the rune for protection. You can use an action to rip the curl off and speak its command rune aloud, choosing a creature that you can see within 30 feet as you do. The target becomes resistant to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage for 1 minute. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. Curl of Rebirth. A fifth curl forms on the birchwood club, with the rune for rebirth. You can use an action to rip the curl off and speak its command rune aloud, casting resurrection on a dead creature that you can see within 30 feet as you do so. Once used, this property can’t be used again until 10 days have passed.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (club)
- Properties: Light
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement by a Creature Who Can Read

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

