# Black Heart

**description**: The biting edge cuts through flesh as her rage cuts through the mind. Legend Black Heart is a weapon and a prison. Inside the amethyst embedded in the sword is the consciousness of Teindrian, the Black Heart, an ancient black dragon that terrorized the world nearly a thousand years ago. Legend says a group of four brave adventurers gave their lives to imprison Teindrian within the gemstone when, after struggling valiantly, they realized that they did not have the power to stop her. Location Black Heart's last known owner was Caldek Qelrash, a kobold scholar who visited several academic institutions and arcane sages to further her research on the sword before disappearing on an expedition to find a long-buried temple of Teindrian. Word of her exploits—what little is known of them—has been spread by a traveling tiefling bard named Sorrow in the decade since Caldek’s mysterious disappearance. Encounter Ideas Mutterings of Caldek. The adventurers hear about a rambling, winged kobold with purple scales squatting inside a derelict stone tower nearby. Sword and Bone. After defeating an adult dragon, the party finds Black Heart in the dragon’s horde, along with Caldek Qelrash’s corpse and heavily damaged research papers. Caldek’s Ambush. Coveting their valuables, Caldek ambushes the characters in a remote location. Amethyst crystals grow along her body. Progression Black Heart progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. To reach legendary rarity, an amethyst gemstone worth at least 200 gp must be set into the sword next to the stone that imprisons Teindrian. Statistics Weapon (Longsword), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . You gain darkvision out to 120 feet. As an action, you can grant another creature this darkvision for a number of hours equal to your proficiency bonus, losing it yourself when you do so. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a short or long rest. Uncommon . Amethyst Wings. As a bonus action, you can speak a command word, causing a pair of purple dragon wings to sprout from your back. You gain a flying speed of 30 feet for 1 minute, or until you speak the command word again to dismiss the wings (no action required). Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Rare . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Violet Outburst. As an action, you can exhale a 30-foot cone of purple energy. Each creature in the area must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw, taking 6d8 force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Very Rare . The save DC for Violet Outburst increases to 17. While attuned to this weapon, your Constitution score increases by 2 and your maximum for that score increases to 25. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, and the save DC for Violet Outburst increases to 19. Spells. This sword has 5 charges. While holding the sword, you can cast vicious mockery or use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells (save DC 19): charm person (1 charge), command (1 charge), compulsion (4 charges), dominate person (5 charges), hold monster (5 charges), hold person (2 charges), or phantasmal killer (4 charges). The sword regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges when you finish a long rest. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the crystal in the center cracks, the sword loses all magical properties, and Teindrian ( ancient black dragon ) is released into the world.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (longsword)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

