# Blessed Bastion (very rare variant)

**description**: Armour (shield), rare (enhanced attunement by a cleric) Component: magical material - consecrated silver As legions of demons encroached upon the realms of humanity… As their relentless advance choked the life out of the land… As all hope seemed lost and doom was all but certain… One brave paladin’s words will forever be etched in the annals of history: “Hey, what if we bless silver even harder?” You can use this shield as a spellcasting focus for your cleric and paladin spells. Symbol of Good. The mere sight of this shield gives evil pause. While you’re wielding the shield, hostile fiends and undead that can see it have disadvantage on initiative rolls. When you roll initiative, you gain 1d8 temporary hit points for each creature affected by this property, up to a maximum of 5d8. These temporary hit points last for 1 minute. Enhanced Attunement: Cleric. If you are a cleric, you can enhance your attunement to this shield by proving that evil flees before your holy righteousness. In order to do so, you must use your Channel Divinity: Turn Undead feature to turn a total of 20 hostile undead while attuned to the shield. While enhanced, this shield gains the Vade Retro property. EA: Vade Retro. As an action, you can speak the shield’s command word to emit a pulse of divine magic from it, which affects all fiends and undead within 15 feet of you in one of the ways described below. Once this property of the shield has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn. If a creature is undead, the ground surges upward to wrap around it, swallowing it into the grave it never should have left. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained for 1 minute. A creature restrained in this way can use its action to make a DC 15 Strength check, freeing itself on a success. Undead more than 10 feet from the ground are unaffected by this property. If a creature is a fiend, it is partially banished back to its plane of origin. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or become translucent and wispy for 1 minute. While in this state, it can move and interact with the world as normal, but its attacks, spells, and abilities deal half damage. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Very rare variant: Increase the DCs to 16. While wielding this shield, you have resistance to necrotic damage. Harvesting - Consecrated Silver Consecrated silver is a material created by members of good aligned faiths to fight evil even more effectively, and can’t be harvested normally. To make consecrated silver, an equivalent amount of regular silver must be blessed by a servant of a good aligned deity in a ritual lasting 8 hours with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Religion) check. On a failure, the silver is tarnished and destroyed, and a new supply must be procured in order to try again.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 26720
- Item Type: Armour (shield)
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: enhanced attunement by a cleric

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

