# Blood Spike Armor (Level 5)

**description**: This ancient plate armor is crafted from a strange black metal. Vicious spikes protrude from the shoulders and breastplate. Hideous, demonic faces are etched into the black metal. Gregor the Red was a legendary warrior with a thirst for blood. On one occasion, Gregor was hired to retrieve a golden cup from an ancient tomb. After many dangerous encounters, Gregor at last found the golden cup in the lowest bowels of the tomb. As he reached for the cup, he noticed a suit of ancient armor piled in a corner. Gregor was mesmerized by the frightening armor. He would take the golden cup back to his employer, but he would claim the magnificent armor for himself! Once back at his base, Gregor set about the long and difficult task of restoring and repairing the armor. He hired the best armorers and weaponsmiths to ensure the armor was brought back to all its former glory. Of course, he also could not resist having his smiths add new detailing to the armor to be sure everyone knew it was his and his alone. Gregor wore his terrifying spiked armor on every mission and campaign from that day on. He even mastered close-combat techniques that helped him utilize the armor spikes. Gregor derived a perverse pleasure from driving the spikes into his enemies and watching the blood drip onto his armor. Because of this, Gregor named his beloved plate blood spike armor . Gregor is said to have lost his life to a powerful undead being in some far-away crypt. As far as anyone knows, his remains and armor could still be there… Armor (plate), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing this armor, you can use a bonus action to make one melee weapon attack with the armor’s spikes against a target within 5 feet of you. If the attack hits, the spikes deal 1d4 piercing damage. You are proficient with this attack and use your Strength modifier for the attack and damage rolls. Frightening Armor (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. Once per turn, when you hit a creature with your armor spikes, you cause unnatural bleeding from the resulting wounds. After you hit a creature with the armor’s spikes, it takes 1d4 necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns from a bleeding wound. Each time you hit that creature with the armor’s spikes, the damage dealt by the wound increases by 1d4. At the end of the creature’s turn, it can make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Alternatively, any creature can take an action to stanch the wound with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check. The wound also closes if the target receives magical healing. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC and to attack and damage rolls with the armor’s spikes. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC and to attack and damage rolls with the armor’s spikes, instead of +1. In addition, you can use an action to frighten a creature you can see within 30 feet of you. If the creature can see you, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) or be frightened until the end of your next turn. On the following turn, you can use an action to extend the duration of this effect until the end of your next turn. You can continue extending the duration in this way until the creature is no longer frightened, it ends its turn out of line of sight, or it is more than 60 feet away from you. If a creature succeeds on its saving throw, you can’t use this property on that creature again for 24 hours. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC and to attack and damage rolls with the armor’s spikes, instead of +2.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Heavy Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

