# Blood Throne of Souls

**description**: Wondrous item, artifact (requires attunement) At first glance this throne appears to be one solid, carved piece of humanoid ivory; upon close inspection it is pitted with thousands of tiny holes in every surface and actually is made from hundreds of individual bones that are fused together. It was originally made by drow and is only ever possessed by a drow for more than 24 hours. Any non-drow that tries to use the throne for more than 24 hours must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, the creature takes 28 (8d6) necrotic damage and can walk away from the throne. On a failed save, the creature’s skeleton is drawn magically through their skin without leaving any marks and becomes dust within the throne. When sat in by its current drow owner, it glows and softly pulses with a misty gray-blue light that undead find calming, alluring, and even hypnotic. If anyone other than the current owner sits in it, they are subject to a symbol of death (make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 35 (12d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save). If the person affected by this dies, their essence is drawn into the throne and they are unreachable without a wish being used to retrieve their soul from within it. The Blood Throne of Souls is a final resting place for hundreds of drow souls from across the millennia, almost all of whom gave themselves freely to become part of the item. There is always one drow who is destined to be the possessor of the throne, although there are long periods when it belongs to no one as the next possessor is yet to be born. The test to find out if a newborn drow is the Chosen One is the placing of a periapt of foul rotting in one hand at the same time as a scarab of death in the other (the petitioners have to be very certain that the recipient is the right drow). The baby will grasp both items and keep hold of them for 24 hours. If neither affects the infant at the end of this period, it is the only evidence needed that the Chosen One is once more amongst their people. Necromantic Power. The Blood Throne of Souls does a number of things that take advantage of the strong and close link with undead. While sitting upon the throne, the spirits of the undead that comprise the throne’s power grant the possessor the ability to cast the following spells (at their highest casting): blight, clone, create undead, foresight, globe of invulnerability, imprisonment, revealing insight, true seeing, and vampiric touch. Arcane Font. Overnight the throne is able to fully recharge any magic item which is necromantic in nature (when encountered, Makinnga’s mask, robe and staff are fully primed and ready for use). In addition, the throne grants advantage in Wisdom (Insight) rolls, making it quite difficult to lie in its presence. Unholy Aura. The Blood Throne of Souls emits an aura similar in effect to the hallow spell that permeates the chamber. This aura bars creatures, as the hallow spell, except undead. Undead within the aura have advantage on saving throws against effects that turn undead. Additionally, undead that are turned may roll the save at the start of each of their turns to resist the effect. Destruction The Blood Throne of Souls can only be destroyed in three ways. The first way is for it to be touched by the Prince of Undead, who draws all the souls contained within it into him and the Blood Throne of Souls will crumble to dust. However, the throne is aware of the Prince’s approach and will teleport away in a random direction for a random distance if it gets the chance to do so. The second way is for a solar angel, a lawful good high elven lich, a gold dragon wyrm and a paladin storm giant to each pass away on the Blood Throne of Souls and allow their essence to enter it, over the course of 4 rounds. The third way is just a temporary disablement, although long term, and has only ever been used once to save a drow metropolis. The method is for all the previous possessors of the artifact (living and undead) to be found, and all enter it willingly as the current possessor casts three true resurrection spells, one immediately after the other. This then unleashes all of the contained undead souls to do as they are ordered (to defend the metropolis on the one occasion this process was completed), causing the Blood Throne of Souls to crumble into microscopic dust. This dust then takes 100 drow generations to reform into the artifact and another ten generations for the drifting incorporeal undead to gather again within the Blood Throne of Souls. A new possessor then has to be found.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: AAW Games

**book**: Rise of the Drow

