# Blood Moon Orb

**description**: This strange orb is the size of a human’s head, and appears to be crafted from a single piece of glass. No seam or opening is visible, yet the orb is filled with a thick red liquid, which swirls slowly within. Most female serpentine lamia (see Creature Codex) take part in the Revelry, part sacred ceremony and part frenzied celebration, which occurs on nights of the full moon. Those who partake in these secretive mysteries believe they are possessed and empowered by the mystical power of the very moon itself. Outsiders do not generally learn details of what transpires during these moonlit ceremonies. Although no two Revelries are identical, there are elements in every ceremony which never change. Celebrants participate in chaotic dancing, hypnotic swaying, and frenzied distortions of their serpentine bodies as if seized with madness. Snakes are also typically involved in the Revelry, with participants often wearing them around their bodies or otherwise handling them in various symbolic and proscribed manners. The rite culminates in an ecstatic, mystical fervor and extreme loss of inhibition known as Shiv’ash (literally, “the madness and ecstasy of the moon”). In this state, the lamia lose all self-control. They shout excitedly, shrieking out prophecies, and engage in all manner of debauchery. The Night of the Blood Moon occurs once per year. It is the most sacred of all Revelries—a time when alliances are sealed, blood sacrifices are made, wars are ended, and new matriarchs are chosen. It is during a Night of the Blood Moon long ago that a powerful lamia cult created the blood moon orb . Little is known about the blood moon orb , save that it contains blood drops from the one hundred sacrifices made that night. It is said the lamia females wished to capture the mystical spirit of the moon itself in the blood moon orb , and some believe they did exactly that. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard) While holding the orb, you have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, its range increases by 30 feet. Blood Moon’s Rise (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while holding the orb. The orb also has 6 charges for some of the following properties. It regains 1d6 expended charges daily at dawn. 5th level. You can use an action to expend 1 or more of the orb’s charges to cast one of the following spells, using your spell save DC: by the light of the moon * (2 charges) or moonbeam (2 charges). 9th level. As an action, you can deal 1d4 slashing damage to yourself. This damage can’t be healed until you complete a long rest. The orb absorbs and can hold up to 4 hit points of your blood until expended or until you complete a long rest. While the orb holds your blood, you can expend the blood in the orb when casting a spell and increase the save DC or spell attack bonus of the spell by an amount equal to the hit points stored in the orb. Once used, the orb can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 13th level. The list of spells you can cast from the orb expands to include: by the light of the watchful moon * (4 charges), exsanguinate * (5 charges), and moon trap * (4 charges). In addition, you can use an action to expend 6 of the orb’s charges to cause a red sphere of necrotic energy to pulse out from the orb. Each creature, other than you, within 60 feet of the orb must make a Constitution saving throw, using your spell save DC. On a failure, a creature takes 8d6 necrotic damage as droplets of blood burst thought the its skin. On a success, a creature takes half the damage. 17th level. You can use an action to detect magical pathways and portals, such as the presence of the teleportation circle or gate spells or the presence of natural fonts of magic like ley lines, within 120 feet of you. Detected portals are visible to you, and you can point out their locations to others. By spending 1 minute concentrating on a portal detected by the orb, you can sense the physical conditions around its destination. Once used, the orb can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Medium Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

