# Bloodcaster

**description**: Another body. Blood stains where the wounds should be, but no cuts in the skin. Inspector Calum thinks it’s magic, but the ‘hits’ are too precise. No, this is a pro’s work; that damned assassin is back in town. Legend An ambitious assassin commissioned two copies of this lithe, ebony-stained crossbow. One they gifted to their guild leader, Knives Aplenty. The other they kept secret and used to frame Knives for a string of intra-guild murders. Long story short, Knives now has both. Location With their guild decimated, Knives Aplenty travels the world as an assassin for hire. They are just a sack of gold and a few days’ travel away from wherever an unscrupulous noble or adventurer needs them to be. They keep both Bloodcasters on their person. Encounter Ideas Wanted: Hero, Dead. A guard captain has tied Knives to a series of murders and thinks Sir Gaspard Gnollhammer, a retired adventurer, is their next target. The captain hires the party to protect Gaspard. Mutually Beneficial. The Shadow Orchid, a guild of assassins, approaches the party with a proposition. The guild will lure Knives into the open for the party to kill. In exchange, the guild and the party split the two Bloodcasters . Distraction Team. Knives hires the party to attack a bandit camp head on so they can sneak in during the ensuing chaos and assassinate their leader. But will Knives pay up when the party unexpectedly survives? Progression Bloodcaster progresses when its wielder uses it to commit a sufficiently spectacular assassination, as determined by the GM. Statistics Weapon (Light Crossbow), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Blood Bolt. You can fire this magic weapon without ammunition by losing 1 hit point as part of the action used to fire it. If you do so, your blood coalesces into a liquid bolt, which deals necrotic damage instead of piercing. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Septic Shot. When you fire a blood bolt, you can lose an additional 2 hit points to deal an additional 1d4 poison damage. Rare . When you deal poison damage to a creature using Septic Shot, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (the DC is equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier) or be poisoned until the end of its next turn. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Blood Aim. When hit with a blood bolt, you can choose to lose an additional 10 hit points to make the attack a critical hit. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a short or long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. The poison damage dealt by Septic Shot increases to 3d4, and a target that fails their saving throw is now poisoned for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (light crossbow)
- Properties: Ammunition, Loading, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

