# Bloodvayne

**description**: Only those confident in their fighting prowess dare wield this magical weapon. Legend Bloodvayne was created for the vain fighter Callus Burr. Supremely assured of his martial skills, Callus wanted a weapon that would not only challenge his adversary, but also his own life. By sacrificing and donating his own life force to the weapon, the challenges became ever more exciting for both Callus, the spectators, and his foes. Location Bloodvayne is said to be buried with Callus Burr, who ironically perished while using the weapon. Callus’s body now lies in a deep crypt, guarded by the restless souls of those he defeated with the weapon. Encounter Ideas Crypt Thieves. The adventurers learn the location of Callus’s crypt, which is a multiroom, underground crypt filled with skeletons , zombies , and wraiths . Bloody Foes. The adventurers encounter the weapon while battling a group of mercenaries—four bandit captains and a veteran who wields Bloodvayne. Random Treasure. The adventurers find the fantastic sword in a monstrous creature’s lair. Progression Bloodvayne progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. Statistics Weapon (Longsword), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Blood Sacrifice. When you attune to Bloodvayne , you sacrifice one of your Hit Dice to the sword. When the sword reaches uncommon rarity, it deals additional damage equal to the Hit Die sacrificed. This sacrificed Hit Die cannot be regained and is lost permanently. Common . You can utter a command word to cause Bloodvayne to emit the metallic scent of freshly spilled blood for 1 minute. This scent is noticeable to all creatures within 30 feet of you who can smell. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The sword deals additional damage equal to the Hit Die you sacrificed during attunement. Sanguine Smite. As a bonus action, you can empower the sword with your lifeforce by expending up to two Hit Dice. The next time you hit a creature with an attack using Bloodvayne , the attack deals additional slashing damage to the target equal to the roll of the Hit Dice. This damage is in addition to the bonus damage the sword gained during attunement. You don’t regain hit points from expending these Hit Dice. If you sacrifice your last remaining Hit Dice to increase Bloodvayne’s damage, roll a d6. On a 1, you drop to 0 hit points. You can use this property twice, and regain all expended Hit Dice and uses when you finish a long rest. Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. In addition, Sanguine Smite can now be used three times between long rests and up to three Hit Dice can be expended each time it is used. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. In addition, Sanguine Smite can now be used four times between long rests and up to four Hit Dice can be expended each time it is used. Legendary . You can expend up to five Hit Dice each time you use Sanguine Smite. Lifeblood. When you damage a flesh-and-blood creature with Bloodvayne , you can choose to gain temporary hit points equal to your character level. You can use this property twice, and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (longsword)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

