# Bloodrune Dagger

**description**: The Guzvrah tribes in the swamps of Shamrua are known for their vicious magic. Originally, they were humans, elves and half-elves corrupted by hags. About a thousand years ago, they broke away from the hags, retreating into the thickest and most dangerous areas of the swamps. Despite seceding from the hags, the Guzvrah honed the magic skills they learned from their former mistresses. A huge part of their powers relies on blood magic. In some areas of Shamrua, Guzvrah magic has become a synonym for blood magic. The Bloodrune Dagger is an item crafted for (and often by) elite warriors of the tribe. Despite their seemingly vicious nature, the daggers have the main purpose of not killing intruders: Except for the Burning Blood ability, which Guzvrah warriors only use when they are desperate, the daggers help to keep track of intruders, weaken them and scare them off. Magic schools: Necromancy Cost: 8.500 gp Damage: 1d4 piercing Range (thrown): 20/60 Magic properties: The Bloodrune Dagger can be used as a normal dagger. On a successful melee hit, one of its four runes can be activated as a bonus action. Each rune can only be used once a day, and the target has to be a living being with blood in their body. The runes and their effects are: Bloodbound: The owner of the dagger will always know the exact location of the target, as long as they are on the same plane of existence. Only one target can be Bloodbound at once. If used, any previous targets are released from the effect. The owner of the dagger can also release the target from the effect as a free action. Blood Drain: The target will only regain half the hit points of what they would normally recover during a rest. The owner of the dagger will receive the other half as temporary hit points, with a maximum of 10 (excess hit points are lost). Any unused temporary hit points vanish after one day. Only one target can be the victim of the Blood Drain at once. If used, any previous targets are released from the effect. The owner of the dagger can also release the target from the effect as a free action. Bloody Nightmares: The target has to succeed on a Wisdom Saving Throw against DC 15, or suffer from a curse. From now on until the curse is broken, the victim will not be able sleep without nightmares. The dreams will always be about violence and blood, and the cursed person will not gain any positive effects from resting. Even if they try to rest while awake, sudden flashes of nightmarish scenes, almost like bad memories, will haunt the victim of the curse. Burning Blood: The target’s blood begins to boil. For the next three rounds, the victim will suffer 2d4 fire damage at the beginning of the attacker’s turn. Igrah sighed as she looked down at the camp. She had attacked the human intruders three nights ago, cutting one of them with her dagger and binding his blood to the blade. As this had not been enough to scare them off, she attacked again two nights ago, cursing one of them with nightmares. But they kept traveling straight towards her tribe’s village. Not only that, Igrah took a chance to eavesdrop on their conversations several times. They were here to find an ancient, sunken temple. She knew exactly which location they were talking about. It wasn’t far from her home, and it was a cursed place. Far worse than the curse of nightmares her blade could deliver. The humans had to be stopped. From her position in the treetops, she looked to her fellow tribespeople. Fifteen of them had surrounded the camp, waiting in the trees until she gave her command. Igrah nodded to herself, then imitated the eerie sound of a cronefrog. It was time to end this.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 26136
- Item Type: Weapon (Dagger)
- Properties: Finesse, Light, Range, Thrown
- Item Rarity: very rare

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Arcane Items 1

