# Bomboozler (very rare variant)

**description**: Wondrous item, rare Within this sturdy, corrosion-resistant polyhedron is a phial of polyhedrooze ooze ; a caustic substance with remarkable powers of biological alteration. Caustic Calamity. As an action, you can press a button on the polyhedron, crushing the phial, and then toss the device up to 60 feet away. The resulting chemical reaction produces an explosion of acid in a 20-foot radius . Each creature in the area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw , taking 4d6 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, the reaction produces unpredictable biomantic effects on a failed saving throw. Roll a d10 and consult the table below to determine the effect. If a creature comes under an effect lasting 1 minute , it can make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. d10 Effect 1 The acid stops regeneration and healing. The creature can’t regain hit points for 1 minute . 2 The acid coats creatures, dissolving them. The creature takes 2d6 acid damage at the start of each of its turns for 1 minute . 3 Parts of creatures’ bodies meld together. The creature has disadvantage on attack rolls for 1 minute . 4 The acid fuses feet and footwear to the ground. The creature is restrained until the end of your next turn. 5 The acid fuses the eyelids shut. The creature is blinded until the end of your next turn. 6 The acid causes creatures’ skin to become phosphorescent. The creature is under the effect of the faerie fire spell for 1 minute . 7 The acid causes growths to appear and disappear on creatures’ bodies, hindering their actions. The creature is under the effect of the bane spell for 1 minute . 8 The acid causes creatures to shrink. The creature is under the reduce effect of the enlarge/reduce spell for 1 minute . 9 The acid fuses mouths shut. The creature is under the effect of the zippit! * spell for 1 minute . 10 Roll twice on the table, rerolling any further 10s and duplicate results. Once this property of the item has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn and a new phial of polyhedrooze ooze has been installed in the device. Very rare variant: Increase the DC to 16 . You can roll twice on the table, ignoring any duplicate results. The item has the Trigger Warning property. Trigger Warning. Instead of throwing the bomb, you can use an action to plant it on a surface and set it to detonate in a specific situation. As an action, a creature can disarm a bomb set to explode in this way with a successful DC 16 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check . On a failed check, the bomb goes off and the creature that made the check automatically fails the saving throw. Choose one of the following detonation options: Proximity Trigger. Choose a range between 0 and 20 feet. The first Small or larger creature to move within that distance of the bomb after you leave the area sets it off. A creature that succeeds on a DC 16 Dexterity (Stealth) check can approach the bomb without triggering it. Time Bomb. Choose an amount of time ranging from 1 to 100 rounds. On initiative count 20 of the round you choose, the bomb explodes.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 23695
- Item Type: wondrous item
- Item Rarity: very rare

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

