# Bracers of Ganis'briel (Level 13)

**description**: These metal bracers lined with soft leather are etched with beautifully intricate elven patterns and designs. There are countless tales about the various companions who travelled with the legendary Gax the Great. One of the more popular is the half elf Ganis’briel. One of Gax’s closest and most trusted friends, Ganis’briel was often by his side. Ganis’briel’s skills as an archer were almost as famous as Gax’s skills with a blade. When fighting alongside Gax against a terrible giant, however, even Ganis’briel’s incredible skills as an archer were not enough to defeat the giant. He and Gax barely escaped with their lives. To even the odds, Gax crafted a magical set of bracers that enhanced Ganis’briel’s already formidable skill with the bow. As he strapped them to his forearms, Ganis’briel could feel the magic of all elfkind flow into him. The second battle with the giant went quite differently than the first. Ganis’briel’s arrows found their mark time and time again, until at last, the giant was dead! Ganis’briel eventually passed his magical bracers on to his daughter, who wore them proudly for many decades. The bracers became treasured heirlooms and were passed from generation to generation of Ganis’briel’s descendants until they were eventually lost to history. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing these bracers, you have proficiency with the longbow and shortbow. Master Archer (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing these bracers. 5th level. When you make your first attack on your turn, you have advantage on the attack roll if you make the attack with a longbow or shortbow. If you roll a 20 for the attack roll, this property ceases to function until you roll a 1 for an attack roll or until you finish a short rest. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls on ranged attacks made with longbows and shortbows. In addition, your ranged attacks ignore half cover and three-quarters cover, and you don’t have disadvantage when attacking at long range. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls on ranged attacks made with longbows and shortbows, instead of +1. In addition, you can use an action to touch a nonmagical arrow, turning it into an arrow of giant slaying . The arrow of giant slaying immediately becomes a nonmagical arrow if used by anyone other than you. You can’t create a new arrow of giant slaying until the next dawn, and you can have only one such arrow of giant slaying at a time. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls on ranged attacks made with longbows and shortbows, instead of +2. In addition, when you roll a 20 on a ranged attack roll with a longbow or shortbow, you roll the damage dice three times, instead of twice.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

