# Bramble Man

**description**: Wondrous item, Weird, Very Rare This magical item is always under a powerful illusion. It will either appear as a very expensive toy or a very expensive art object. If this item is examined by a creature with truesight, then it appears to be a collection of black and brown twigs that have been bent and fastened into a vaguely humanoid shape between four inches tall and three feet tall. The hag choses the illusion when she makes the bramble man and through her rituals and magic often changes the weight and feel of the twigs; this means that the illusion is very difficult to detect, but not impossible. Any creature that is inspecting the bramble man closely will realize that it is covered by a powerful illusion if they succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) or Intelligence (Investigation) ability check. The hag that created the bramble man will either leave it to be found or find a way to gift it or deposit it near her target. Children. If the target is a child, then the child’s dreams will be filled with various pleasant fantasies that give very accurate instructions on how to escape their guardians and sneak their way into a location decided by the hag. After a week the child will start to show signs of exhaustion and unless watched or guarded in some way will attempt to follow the guidance given in the dreams. A child will usually explain the dream or otherwise not resist if caught in the act of escape. Any spells or effects that prevent bad dreams, evil, or mind-influencing effects will block the bramble man from invading their dreams. If the bramble man is destroyed or moved more than 120 feet from the child then the effect ends and the hag will have to acquire the bramble man again and spend time and resources in order to reset it. Adults. If the target is an adult, then the first adult to claim the treasure as theirs will have vivid dreams. The adult’s dreams will be filled with pleasant fantasies involving hidden treasure, erotic rendevous, fullfillment of dark fantasies, or anything else that could convinve an adult to sneak away in the middle of the night, alone. Each morning the adult must make a DC 10 Intelligence saving throw or become obsessed with following the instructions in the dream, having decided that the treasure is real. The target will be aware that they are having the same repetitive dream but it will not affect short or long rests or otherwise impair them. This effect ends if a dispel magic or dispel evil and good is cast on the target. This effect ends if the target is more than a mile away from the bramble man. If this happens, the hag will attempt to reacquire the bramble man in order to reset it, just like above. The bramble man is old, powerful magic, that is hard to detect. Anyone traveling astrally or ethereally will see a golden thread stretching from the sleeper in the general direction of the hag. This line will end after roughly 60 feet. Identify will not reveal a bramble man, but a legend lore spell, may, depending on the DM. Dispel magic has no effect on a bramble man, but if cast on the target while sleeping will only work to clear the target’s dream, but if, on the second night they are within range of the bramble man, they will begin to dream the hag’s programmed dream again. A remove curse spell, if cast upon the sleeper or the bramble man will only turn it off until the hag can reset it again.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Very Rare

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

