# Branch of the Planar Grove

**description**: Branch of the Planar Grove Staff, legendary (requires attunement by a druid) This staff, a fallen branch of a tree of the Planar Grove, can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While using it as a spellcasting focus, you have a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls and your spell save DC. The staff has 50 charges for the following properties. It regains 4d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 20, the staff regains 1d12 + 1 charges. Conjuration Absorption. While holding the staff, when a creature you can see within 30 feet of you casts a conjuration spell, you can use your reaction to attempt to absorb the spell’s magic into the staff. Make a spellcasting ability check with a +2 bonus against a DC equal to 10 + the spell’s level. If you succeed, you cancel the spell’s effect and the staff gains a number of charges equal to the spell’s level. However, if doing so brings the staff’s total number of charges above 50, the staff plants itself into the ground, becoming a fledgling Planar Tree. You lose your attunement to it, and it is no longer a magic item. It will mature in 1000 years, becoming a portal that connects to all other trees of the Planar Grove. Shape of the Infinite Wilds. When you use your Wild Shape while holding the staff, you can assume the shape of a creature of a type other than beast. The creature can be of any type other than undead or construct that you’ve seen before, and must follow the restrictions listed in the Max. CR and Limitations column of the Beast Shapes table for a druid of your level. When you assume such a creature’s form, you don’t magically gain any armor (other than natural armor) or weapon listed in the creature’s stat block, nor can you use such a creature’s Innate Spellcasting or Spellcasting traits. Additionally, you gain a +2 bonus to the attack and damage rolls of your Wild Shape’s natural weapons. When you have no uses remaining of your Wild Shape, you can use your bonus action and expend 4 charges from the staff to use your Wild Shape. Spells. While holding the staff, you can use an action and expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spellcasting ability: call lightning (7th-level version, 7 charges), conjure animals (7th-level version, 7 charges), conjure elemental (7 charges), conjure woodland beings (4 charges), dust devil XGE (2 charges), earthbind XGE (2 charges), grasping vine (3 charges), lesser restoration (2 charges), plane shift (7 charges), plant growth (3 charges, or 9 charges for the 8-hour version), protection from poison (2 charges), transport via plants (6 charges), or wall of thorns (6 charges). You can also use an action to cast one of the following spells from the staff without using any charges: barkskin , detect poison and disease , entangle , pass without trace , shillelagh , or thorn whip . Versatile . This weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the property—the damage when the weapon is used with two hands to make a melee attack. Damage: 1d6+2 (1d8+2) Damage Type: Bludgeoning Properties: Versatile Weight: 4

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 20542

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

