# Bronze Dragon Figurine

**description**: Knowledge, magic, understanding - these are the three core values the Arcanists, an organization of spellcasters and sages, embody. While they don’t have a complex hierarchical structure, it’s common among this group to gain status (and with this, support and resources) by showing off achievements. For the creators of magic items, the Bronze Dragon Figurine is such a display of knowledge and ability. The figurines resemble a true bronze dragon in every aspect, showing how well its creator researched the topic. An additional feature to attack with lightning bolts illustrates that its maker is willing to go above and beyond. While there are figurines resembling other dragons, the Bronze Dragon Figurines became famous about two hundred years ago, when an actual bronze dragon and member of the Arcanists, Kizzimarith, offered his fellow spellcasters to help in their creation. Since then, no other creation process is so well documented and understood by the Arcanists. A few powerful members of the organization have worked with Kizzimarith to create advanced versions of this item. As far as known, these are all still in possession of their creators. Something the Arcanists prefer not to talk about are the failed attempts. Known as Broken Bronze Dragon Figurines, these items resemble a regular version in all aspects - except for the fact its magic sometimes fails. There are a few common flaws that appear in these figurines. Officially, they should be destroyed as soon as their flaws become known. Unfortunately, some dishonorable Arcanists find a way around that, and sell the broken figurines - often for a discount price so the potential buyers really don’t want to miss the opportunity. Magic schools: Evocation, Transmutation Cost: 15.000 gp Magic properties: This item can be used in two different ways. As an action, the figurine can be used to cast a lightning bolt in a 60 feet line that is 5 feet wide. Every creature in that area has make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d10 points of lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. The lightning attack has three charges, which are regained every dawn. The figurine’s second use is to transform into a Bronze Dragon Wyrmling. The creature counts as a construct, but has all the abilities of a real wyrmling. You can give it telepathic commands as long as it is no more than fifty feet away from you. The wyrmling will obey these commands, or if it hasn’t received any, defend itself if necessary. The figurine will stay in its wyrmling shape for up to 3 hours, and then revert to its figurine form. It will also revert to a figurine when it drops to 0 hit points or when you give it the telepathic command to do so. Once it has been used, it can’t be used again until 3 days have passed. The item’s lightning bolt feature can only be used while it is in figurine shape. Talva smiled. Today, they would finally gain the respect they knew they deserved. Creating the Bronze Dragon Figurine had been a success, and everyone would see it now. The gnome looked towards the Arcanist Vault, their home since they came here three years ago. Then Talva looked at the crowd surrounding them, ready for a duel of magic. And finally at their opponent, their friendly rival Aerdalle, the elven sorcerer. Aerdalle presented his own figurine, placing it on the ground. “Ready?” With a swift motion, Talva threw their figurine into the air, and gave the telepathic command. The small item instantly grew, until it was over six feet tall, landing on the ground with a heavy impact. Six hundred pounds of animated metal, ready to fight for Talva. Aerdalle showed a quick smirk, then his own figurine transformed... only to turn around and bite its creator. Aerdalle screamed as his blood spilled on the ground. Talva’s eyes widened in shock. “You idiot!” they gnome screamed. “Didn’t you follow the proper testing procedures?” They’d have a discussion about this later. Now, Talva sent their own figurine construct to fight the creation of Aerdalle while preparing to cast a spell. This was not the fight they had been looking forward to.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 26136
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: very rare

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Arcane Items 1

