# Caldera

**description**: Caldera Trick weapon (battleaxe, pistol), very rare (requires attunement) The Caldera is an intimidating weapon. In its battleaxe form, it is crowned with a black-hole-like orb that bubbles menacingly with molten metal. This churning crucible holds the devastating axe together and serves as a searing ammunition barrel in the weapon's pistol form. When you attune to the Caldera, the metallic crucible at its apex ignites, constantly simmering with superheated lead. You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. Each time you transform the weapon, you take 1d4 fire damage as the liquid-fire reservoir that serves as a material catalyst surges with thermal energy. In its untransformed state, the Caldera is a battleaxe that can devour its haft to reform into a pair of pistols, each holding half of the crucible. In its transformed state, the weapon is two pistols that can be slammed together to reform the crucible, alongside the rest of the battleaxe. When you transform this weapon into pistols, the crucible refills each of the barrels with 6 lead bullets (12 total), filling up one pistol fully, then the other. When you switch to the untransformed state of the weapon, any unfired lead bullets are re-added to the boiling metal. The boiling metal can contain up to 60 lead bullets, and the weapon can’t transform unless it contains at least 7 lead bullets. As an action, you can feed the crucible in either state by throwing lead bullets in it or by adding a cannonball, which counts as 30 bullets. Untransformed. When you hit with this battleaxe, you can expend 3 lead bullets from the boiling metal to cover the target in molten lead. The target takes an extra 1d6 fire damage, and it takes that damage again at the start of each of its turns unless it rolls on the floor (prone) or uses a bonus action to wipe off the lead. Transformed. You pull out two fiery pistols from the molten metal. When you attack with them, you can use your Strength modifier, instead of Dexterity, for the attack and damage rolls. These pistols are each loaded to full capacity, if there are enough lead bullets in the boiling metal. When you use the Fan Fire property of these pistols, the cumulative penalty per bullet fired is -2 instead of -3, and the pistol deals fire damage instead of piercing damage. In addition, if you roll a 1, the gun doesn’t jam, and you instead take 1d6 fire damage. Bullet Hell. As an action, if both pistols are fully loaded, you can fire both of them in rapid succession, emptying all 12 bullets. Make 6 ranged attacks with the pistols, each dealing 1d6 piercing damage and 1d6 fire damage on a hit. Each attack after the first suffers a cumulative -2 penalty to the attack roll. You cannot add any modifier to the damage roll of these attacks beyond the first—such as the bonus from your Dexterity modifier or the Sharp-Shooter feat—apart from this weapon's bonus to damage rolls. The weapon then reverts to its untransformed state. *Roll20 Note: Add the Caldera (Battleaxe) to your sheet for full functionality. Firearms. Firearms were created out of a dire need to fight the scourge. They all include silver in their construction, and as such, the projectiles they fire are considered silvered for the purposes of overcoming resistances and immunities. Some firearm and ammunition properties require your target to make a saving throw to avoid the effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Firearm save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier Ammunition. The ammunition of a firearm is destroyed upon use. Barrel. The weapon can be fired a number of times equal to the number of bullets its barrel can hold (written as Barrel X) before it must be reloaded according to its fast or slow reload property (F or S, respectively). Slow reload. You must use an attack or an action to reload this firearm. You must have one free hand to do so. Blaring. Firing this weapon makes a thunderous crack. The sound can be heard from up to 100 feet away. Firing a weapon with this property makes it hard to go undetected; you have disadvantage on Stealth checks to hide until the start of your next turn. In addition, if a creature is within the area of the sound blast, it has advantage on Perception checks against you. Fan Fire. You can quickly fire this weapon by slamming the hammer repeatedly. As an action, you fire a number of bullets in a row equal to your Dexterity modifier (minimum of 2, up to the entirety of the barrel). Each attack after the first suffers a cumulative -2 penalty to the attack roll. You cannot add any modifier to the damage roll of these attacks beyond the first (such as the bonus from your Dexterity modifier, the Sharp-shooter feat, or a magic weapon's bonus to damage rolls). When you use this action, your speed becomes 0 until the end of your turn, and attacks you make using the long range of the weapon automatically miss. If you roll a 1 on any of the attack rolls, the weapon jams and can’t be used again until it is repaired. You can use an action to make a DC 15 Sleight of Hand check, repairing the weapon on a success. Alternatively, you can spend 1 hour outside of combat to mend it, automatically succeeding on the check. If your check fails, the weapon is broken and must be mended in a specialist’s store at a quarter of the cost of the firearm. 

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Ammunition (range 40/120), Barrel 6 (S), Blaring, Fan Fire
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

