# Champion's Plate (Level 17)

**description**: This exquisitely crafted, golden plate armor has a stylized horse’s head emblazoned on the breastplate. Every year, a much-beloved Queen held a great jousting tournament. Knights from across the land came to participate, for the prize was wondrous indeed—the Queen would grant the winner any boon if it was in her power to do so. On the tenth anniversary of the Queen’s Tourney, a great celebration was held. The jousts were even more impressive than in years past. More knights than ever before participated, and the events were nothing short of spectacular. One mysterious knight was victorious in every event. He was the most accomplished horseman the people had ever seen; his skill with lance and sword was unmatched; his chivalrous and honorable continence were unparalleled. The crowd cheered as the knight strode forward and knelt before the Queen’s royal box, his head bowed. When the Queen asked what boon he wished as a reward, the humble knight asked simply to become her champion to keep her safe so that the kingdom could continue to prosper under her just rule. And so, the young knight became the Queen’s Champion, swearing an oath to protect her with his life. After decades of exemplary service as the Queen’s Champion, the brave knight lost the battle with the only opponent capable of defeating him—time. The old knight was buried with his armor in the royal crypt. It is said that just before the Champion’s body was sealed within the stone sarcophagus, the old Queen, who had never married, wept openly, for she had grown to love the knight deeply. Her tears fell upon the knight’s armor, and in that moment, so the story goes, the spirit of the old knight knew at last that his Queen truly loved him as he had loved her. Armor (plate), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a creature of good alignment) While wearing this armor and mounted, your melee weapon attack rolls score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Unyielding Champion (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. You have resistance to one type of nonmagical damage: bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing. You can change the type of damage during a long rest. In addition, you can use an action to cast the bless spell from the armor on yourself. Once used, the armor can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC. In addition, any critical hit against you becomes a normal hit. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1. In addition, you have resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. In addition, you can use an action to make yourself immune to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage for 10 minutes or until you are no longer wearing this armor. Once used, this property can’t be used again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Heavy Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a creature of good alignment

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

