# Clanbreaker

**description**: People say love is the most powerful force in the world, but after seeing Clanbreaker in action, I think it might actually be revenge. Legend Korrdin Brassbreath, one of the finest dwarven smiths of his era, fell in love with a traveling human merchant. Knowing his narrow-minded, isolationist brethren would never condone their relationship, the pair eloped to human lands. His clan sent assassins after the merchant, believing that with his lover dead, Korrdin would return to them and “fall in line.” He did return, but not before pouring all his grief and rage into this weapon. Korrdin slew the clan elders and named himself king, whereupon he disbanded the clan and ordered the survivors to live amongst humans. Either they would learn to banish their hate, or they would become as lonely as they made him. Location Korrdin has long since passed and, unless the weapon was removed (see “Encounter Ideas” section), Clanbreaker is buried with him. Korrdin’s resting place could be the abandoned Brassbreath clan hall or a mausoleum in a human city. If his spirit guards his tomb, the party can interact with him. Encounter Ideas New Use for an Old Hall. Varrah Ironeye leads a small clan that was recently displaced. She wants to move her people into the abandoned Brassbreath hall, but it is haunted by the twisted spirits of the elders. She recovered Clanbreaker from Korrdin’s resting place and will gift it to the party if they assist her. Hate Begets Hate. Bandits plague a trade road. After routing them, the party learns that they were descendants of the dwarves Korrdin sent into human lands and that their leader, who looted Clanbreaker , is about to assault a major human settlement. A New Chapter. Orrik Brassbreath is Korrdin’s grand-nephew and represents a generation far removed from the clan’s old hatreds. He wants to lead a delegation to the former clan hall to offer a message of remorse to Korrdin’s spirit. He offers Clanbreaker to the party if they protect the group during the perilous journey to the clan hall. Progression Clanbreaker was created to destroy the repressive, hateful leaders of its maker’s society. The weapon isn’t sentient but knows when it faces people of similar disposition. Using Clanbreaker to slay a powerful figure whose hatred destroys the joy of the people around them increases the weapon’s rarity. If Clanbreaker’s wielder uses nonviolent methods to cause such a figure to see the error of their ways and change their course, this also increases the weapon’s rarity. Statistics Weapon (Light Hammer), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) While wielding this magic weapon, you have advantage on ability checks to understand and bridge cultural gaps and to convince people to put aside their hatreds. In addition, you gain a bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which increases when attacking dwarves. These bonuses are based on the weapon’s rarity, as described in the following table. Weapon Bonuses Rarity Against Dwarves Against Non-Dwarves Common +1 +0 Uncommon +2 +0 Rare +3 +1 Very rare +4 +2 Legendary +5 +3

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (light hammer)
- Properties: Light, Thrown
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

