# Conch of Poseidon

**description**: Wonderous item, very rare (requires attunement) This conch shell has been fashioned into a kind of horn instrument. The shell glows with a soft blue luminescence which pulses along with the tune you play. When any of its charges are spent, the conch begins to crackle, with lightning crawling across its surface as you play. The conch has 4 charges and regains (1d4 - 1) charges at dawn. You may use your action to begin playing the horn. While playing the horn you are considered to be concentrating; failing a concentration check interrupts your playing. Any concentration checks made use charisma as your spellcasting modifier. You may expend a charge to cause one of the following effects in a 150 ft. radius sphere, centered on a point up to 100 feet from you: (1 Charge) Flood: You cause the water level of all standing water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If the area includes a shore, the flooding water spills over onto dry land. If you choose an area in a large body of water, you instead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from one side of the area to the other and then crashes down. Any huge or smaller vehicles in the wave’s path are carried with it to the other side. Any huge or smaller vehicles struck by the wave have a 25 percent chance of capsizing. The water level remains elevated until you stop playing. If this effect produced a wave, the wave repeats on the start of your next turn while the flood effect lasts. (1 charge) Part Water: You cause water in the area to move apart and create a 5 ft. wide by 100 ft. long trench. The trench extends across the spell’s area, and the separated water forms a wall to either side. The trench remains until you stop playing. The water then slowly fills in the trench over the course of the next round until the normal water level is restored. (1 charge) Redirect Flow: You cause flowing water in the area to move in a direction you choose, even if the water has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other unlikely directions. The water in the area moves as you direct it, but once it moves beyond the spell’s area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain conditions. The water continues to move in the direction you chose until you stop playing. (3 charges) Whirlpool: This effect requires a body of water at least 50 feet square and 25 feet deep. You cause a whirlpool to form in the center of the area. The whirlpool forms a vortex that is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature or object in the water and within 25 feet of the vortex is pulled 10 feet toward it. A creature can swim away from the vortex by making a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC. When a creature enters the vortex for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and is caught in the vortex until the spell ends. On a successful save, the creature takes half damage, and isn’t caught in the vortex. A creature caught in the vortex can use its action to try to swim away from the vortex as described above, but has disadvantage on the Strength (Athletics) check to do so. The first time each turn that an object enters the vortex, the object takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage; this damage occurs each round it remains in the vortex. (3 charges) Call Storm: You call a strong thunderstorm to manifest in the affected area. Storm clouds appear causing the water to become violent, causing any area caught in the radius to be considered difficult terrain. As a bonus action, you can call a lighting bolt down, striking a point within the storm. Any creature within a 5 foot radius of that point must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (2d10 + 3) lightning damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Escape Plan Games

**book**: Tavern Tales Vol 1 - A Trip Away Inn

