# Countess's Consort

**description**: The blade made her fragile. Forced her to hunt. To kill over and over. After four hundred years of undeath, it was all the countess could do to feel again. Legend Countess Miratessa Rizziconi ruled a strip of rural, mountainous land for four hundred years, first overtly as a human, then covertly as a vampire. Bored of undeath, she commissioned this blade, made of blackened steel and the blood of her dearly departed eleventh husband, to give her a challenge. The blade saps its wielder’s life, forcing them to kill for sustenance. Location The countess’s seat of power is a grand, underground estate built beneath her family’s castle. Unless she is hunting, she and her blade can be found there, along with her twelfth husband and their legion of servants. Encounter Ideas Family Feud. A relative of the countess’s eleventh husband discovered that their loved one was turned into a weapon and is incensed. They hire the party to slay the countess and retrieve the rapier. More than She Could Chew. The countess ( vampire ) ambushes the party at night, mistaking them for easier prey. Petty Theft. Delphino, a rival vampire, hires or coerces the party into stealing Countess’s Consort . He wishes to embarrass and weaken Miratessa, so she must be left (un)alive, but the party can keep the rapier. Progression Whenever you kill a creature with a CR equal to your character level or higher, you can choose to have Countess’s Consort progress, immediately gaining its new effects and reducing your Constitution score by the indicated amount. Statistics Weapon (Rapier), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Uncommon . When you attune to this magic weapon, your Constitution score permanently decreases by 2. When you finish a long rest while attuned to it, you gain temporary hit points equal to the number of hit points you lost from all of this weapon’s decreases to your Constitution score. Whenever this weapon kills a creature with a CR equal to at least half your level (rounded up), you gain temporary hit points equal to your level. Rare . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Your Constitution score permanently decreases by an additional 2 (4 total). Shapechange. As an action, you can transform into a bat. While in bat form, you can’t speak, your walking speed is 5 feet, and you have a flying speed of 30 feet. Your statistics, other than your size and speed, are unchanged. The rapier, and anything you are wearing, transforms with you, but nothing else you are carrying does. You revert to your true form if you die. You can use this property a number of times equal to half your proficiency bonus and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Your Constitution score permanently decreases by an additional 2 (6 total). Charm. As an action, you target one humanoid you can see within 30 feet. If the target can see you, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be charmed by you. The charmed target regards you as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although the target isn’t under your control, it takes your requests or actions in the most favorable way it can. Each time you or your companions do anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or until you drop to 0 hit points, are on a different plane of existence than the target, or take a bonus action to end the effect. You can use this property a number of equal to half your proficiency bonus and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. Your Constitution score permanently decreases by an additional 2 (8 total). Whenever an attack with this weapon deals damage to a creature under the effect of your Charm action, the target takes an equal amount of necrotic damage, and you gain temporary hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (rapier)
- Properties: Finesse
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

