# Crown of Shadow

**description**: Wondrous Item, Legendary (requires attunement) This twisted headband garnished with the horns of demonic beasts casts the features of its wearer in shadow. It is one of the closest things to an artifact known on the face of Aryth, and its purpose is almost entirely malevolent. Some say it was forged by dwarf prisoners for Izrador in the days following the Sundering in his bid to spread poison among the ears of the dwarves who would eventually become orcs. Some also claim that this is one of several crowns, each made for Izrador so that his followers could create black mirrors in their temples and begin to drain the world of magic. Regardless of its origin, it returned to the hands of the Durgis clan, who vowed to protect it from ever returning to the hands of those who worship Izrador. They believe that its abilities, if controlled by a powerful enough spellcaster, could be used to aid the war effort instead. However, no dwarf spellcaster has ever felt themselves able to harness the Crown of Shadow’s power, and Woden of Clan Durgis has decided that only the Witch Queen of the elves is strong enough to possibly make use of it. While wearing the Crown of Shadow, you are immune to magic that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, determine whether you are lying, know your alignment, or know your creature type. Creatures can telepathically communicate with you only if you allow it. You are also immune to the charmed, frightened, and stunned conditions, and if you are suffering those conditions, they end when you put on the Crown of Shadow. In addition, any undead creature that begins its turn or enters a space within a 30-foot radius of you becomes charmed by you for the next 24 hours. An undead creature charmed in this way must obey your commands. An undead creature with a challenge rating of 8 or higher may make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw to avoid becoming charmed in this way. Finally, the wearer of the Crown of Shadow can use it to create a black mirror or repair a damaged black mirror in a ritual that lasts 30 minutes. In the final minute of the ritual, the wearer becomes paralyzed as their spirit is pulled from their body. At the ritual’s conclusion, their spirit is utterly destroyed, consumed by the newly formed black mirror. Whispers of the Crown Nobody knows if the Crown of Shadow is truly possessed of some malign intelligence, but when someone wears the Crown, they hear it whispering in their mind. At first the whispers are quiet and even polite. They tell the wearer that the Crown is protecting their thoughts from others. When the wearer attempts to tell a lie, the Crown whispers the perfect things to say, and if the wearer is ever in a situation where they would be charmed, stunned, or frightened, they feel the condition overtake them for just a moment before it is washed away by feelings of confidence and strength from the Crown. But over time, the Crown begins to urge the wearer to help it create a black mirror. It may not say that is what the ritual will do, instead saying that the ritual will simply make the wearer more powerful, protect their friends and family, or even help defeat their enemies. It certainly does not say the ritual will consume and kill the wearer.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

