# Curse of Moon-Blood (Scarified)

**description**: Curse of Moon-Blood Eldritch Carving, legendary, requires attunement During the initial days of the scourge, not all the afflicted turned to beasts. Most of them went mad, some unlucky few were devoured, but the hunger of those blood-thirsty enough to consume the flesh of both man and beast irreversibly twisted their soul and body. These cannibals did what they had to in order to survive, but became cursed, turning into the first of the crimson beasts, also known as the Moon-Blooded. The fate of a Moon-Blooded was to die an atrocious death, worthy of the weight of their sins. Such atrocities wouldn’t go unnoticed, and one day all those who contracted this curse were found dead, their mangled corpses half buried within the ground. Who committed such an act? No one knows. In the ensuing days, those privy to the powers of eldritch carvings were quick to notice the pattern amidst the corpses, Martyr Tulio first among them. This eldritch rune engraved upon one's flesh allows the control of the curse it was created from. The host can shape their blood into weapons and use it to deflect deadly blows. Though powerful, if too much blood is spilled, the ancient curse awakens anew, devouring life and unleashing the terrifying crimson beast of old. When you choose to transform into a crimson beast, the powers you gain access to are enhanced, replacing the Drawn powers. Choose one of the following: Blood Wings. You sprout wings from your back, giving you a flying speed equal to your walking speed. Barbed Tail. A bloody tail erupts from your lower spine. As part of transforming and on subsequent turns as a bonus action, you can make a melee weapon attack with it. The tail is considered a simple melee weapon you are proficient with, it has the finesse and reach properties, and deals 3d8 magical piercing damage on a hit. Razor Claws. Your hands grow sharp claws that you can climb and kill with. You gain a climbing speed equal to your movement speed, and your unarmed strikes deal an extra 2d6 magical slashing damage. The carving’s power protects your body when the situation is most dire. While attuned to this item, your AC increases by 2 while you are below half your hit point maximum. In addition, when you are reduced to 0 hit points, you lose control of yourself as your blood takes a life of its own and you go berserk. You regain 1 hit point and gain a number of temporary hit points equal to your hit point maximum. While berserk, you gain all the abilities of your crimson beast transformation and on each of your turns, you attack the nearest creature you can see. If no creature is near enough to move to and attack, you attack an object, with preference for an object smaller than yourself. Once you go berserk, you stay in that state for 1 minute or until you fall unconscious. When it ends, you immediately drop to 0 hit points, are dying, and have 2 failed death saving throws. After you’ve gone berserk, you lose all the abilities from the eldritch carving for 1 week.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Finesse, Reach
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

