# Cute Spider Egg

**description**: Adoptable Spider Eggs Dark elves customarily gift each other spider eggs that hatch on Spidermas, a significant holiday celebrated across the Sunken World. Spidermas honors the Great Spider, the mysterious and benevolent dark elf deity also affectionately known as the Old Spider or Granny Spider. On Spidermas Day, dark elves watch in awe as eggs of magically significant and benign spiders crack open and baby spiders crawl out. With love and care, a baby spider can grow to be a faithful companion to anyone who takes the time to raise it. Many different spider eggs exist, and expert arachnologists can tell what type of baby spider will hatch from each. On Spidermas Day, or at the gamemaster’s discretion, a spider egg hatches and an adoptable baby spider crawls into the world. Regardless of type, all baby spiders are defenseless and require daily care and food depending on their size to grow. Different baby spiders grow at different speeds. An adoptable baby spider is two size categories smaller than its adult form and completely defenseless, relying on you for nourishment and protection. When a spider reaches maturity, it may choose to stay with you if you treated it well, becoming a companion. At the gamemaster’s discretion, characters proficient in Animal Handling may train their adult spiders to fight alongside them in battle, serve as mounts, and perform other tasks. Gamemaster Tip: Spider Stat Blocks You can find stat blocks for the spider , the giant wolf spider , the giant spider , and the phase spider in either the SRD or the core 5e rulebooks! Cute Spider Egg Wondrous Item, Common This fist-sized egg is pleasantly warm to the touch. As it gets closer to Spidermas, you can hear tiny clacking noises coming out of it. After it hatches, the cute baby spider likes to cling to your clothes and only climb off to feed on crumbs of food and tiny bugs if those are not available on your person. With care and nurture, the cute baby spider grows into a spider (CR 0) after 30 days. This spider is friendly to you and your companions. It will do its best to keep your equipment free from bugs. Unless trained to fight, it avoids combat and prefers to snuggle inside your backpack or in the folds of your clothes, but it will defend itself from hostile creatures. Smooth Spider Egg Wondrous Item, Uncommon This head-sized egg is silky-smooth to the touch. As it gets closer to Spidermas, you can hear screeching noises coming out of it. After it hatches, the smooth baby spider likes to skitter around and climb on walls. It requires as much food and water as a medium-sized creature each day. With care and nurture, the smooth baby spider grows into a giant wolf spider (CR 1/4) after 60 days. This giant wolf spider is friendly to you and your companions. It likes to follow you anywhere you go and rub up against your legs to get your attention. Unless trained to fight, it tries to avoid combat by climbing up walls or hiding in crevices, but it will defend itself from hostile creatures. Heavy Spider Egg Wondrous Item, Rare This gnome-sized egg is heavier than it looks. As it gets closer to Spidermas, you can hear a steady hum coming out of it. After it hatches, the heavy baby spider likes to weave webs in dark corners. It requires four times as much food and water as a medium-sized creature each day. With care and nurture, the heavy baby spider grows into a giant spider (CR 1) after 180 days. This giant spider is friendly to you and your companions. It likes to hang out on its webs and gaze at people coming and going, and it loves to watch over you and your companions while you sleep. Unless trained to fight, it prefers to climb out of reach and use its Web ranged weapon attack to restrain enemies during combat, but it will defend itself from hostile creatures. Iridescent Spider Egg Wondrous Item, Very Rare This barrel-sized egg is almost weightless and glows faintly when touched. As it gets closer to Spidermas, you can hear otherworldly plinks and plonks coming out of it. After it hatches, the iridescent baby spider likes to relax in the mist between dimensions, also known as the ethereal plane, and shift back to reality whenever it feels lonely or gets hungry. It requires four times as much food and water as a medium-sized creature each day. With care and nurture, the iridescent baby spider grows into a phase spider (CR 3) after a year. This phase spider is friendly to you and your companions. It will keep an eye out for enemies trying to sneak up on you and your companions through the ethereal plane. Unless trained to fight, it prefers to hide in the ethereal plane during combat, but it will defend itself from hostile creatures. Massive Fluffy Spider Egg Wondrous Item, Legendary This human-sized egg is covered in a fluffy, wool-like substance. As it gets closer to Spidermas, you can hear rumbling sounds coming out of it, and the egg sometimes trembles when touched. After it hatches, the massive fluffy baby spider likes to follow you around and will attempt to play harmless pranks with its webs on you and your companions. It requires sixteen times as much food and water as a medium-sized creature each day. With care and nurture, the massive fluffy baby spider grows into an enormous wooly spider (CR 8) after two years. This enormous wooly spider is friendly to you and your companions. It will happily carry friendly creatures, as well as equipment up to its carrying capacity, holding everything in its thick wool. Unless trained to fight, it tries to pick up you and your companions on its huge back and run away from any perceived danger as soon as combat begins. It typically does not attack unless trained to, but it will defend itself from hostile creatures. Humongous Spider Egg (The Arachniarch’s Egg) Wondrous Item, Artifact This horse-sized egg looks like an ancient boulder and is completely impervious to damage. As it gets closer to Spidermas, nothing seems to happen, but if this is indeed the egg of the legendary Arachniarch, it might one day hatch into a tremendously powerful and massive spider! After it hatches, the humongous baby spider likes to gently nudge smaller creatures with its head and pick up and carry random items and even small buildings around, trying to be helpful. It requires sixty-four times as much food and water as a medium-sized creature each day. With care and nurture, the humongous baby spider grows into the Arachniarch (CR 21) after four years. The Arachniarch is friendly to you and your companions. Thanks to its massive size, it can carry entire buildings on its back as long as they fit in a 50-foot cube, and it will happily do so for you and your companions. Unless trained to fight, it tries to shield you and your companions from harm during combat, placing its enormous body between you and your enemies to grant you full cover. It typically does not attack unless trained to, but it will defend itself from hostile creatures.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: common

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

