# Death Skull

**description**: Wondrous item, Rare to Legendary (attunement) Using a death skull is an evil act. These strange small dragon skulls are fashioned by hags. The death skull's power is based on how young the dragon was when it was ritually slain. A hag chars the skull with fire, pitts it with acid, and spends at least a year and a day crafting a death skull. Death skulls are a good example of a hag gift with a hidden penalty. Any dragon, regardless of their alignment, will immediately recognize this vile object and attack the bearer on sight, often ignoring all other foes in their rage over the defiled wyrmling. A hag displays a death skull in her hair or on her head. A humanoid wearing one of these needs to fashion it to their armor or clothes or wear it like an amulet. A creature can only have one death skull active at a time. Knowledge of how a death skull is made may cause horror or madness depending on the DM. Death Skull of the Wyrmling (Rare). This charred or pitted dragon skull, crafted from the corpse of a wyrmling, is roughly the shape and size of a kobold’s skull. Two large garnets are sometimes attached to the skull's eye sockets. The wearer of this skull can read, speak, and write Draconic fluently and has advantage on all ability checks or saving throws for or against kobolds. Once per day the user may target a 10-foot-radius area no more than 90 feet away with a Dragonling Death Scream. Dragonling Death Scream. You create a burst of magically augmented screaming and terror that is horrendous to listen to. Targets caught inside the area of effect make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, or take 19 (3d12) psychic damage and gain the frightened condition for one round. Targets outside of the area of effect who can hear the screaming sound must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or gain the frightened condition for one round. On the next round the area targeted by Dragonling Death Scream is filled with energy damage associated with the type of wyrmling that donated the skull. This damage is 10 (3d6) damage per round for any creature that ends its turn in the spell area. This energy damage effect lasts for 1 + the user’s Charisma modifier rounds. As an example, a death skull of the gold wyrmling would fill the area with 10 (3d6) fire damage the round after Dragonling Death Scream was used. If the user has a Charisma of 16 then this energy damage will fill the area of effect for four rounds. Death Skull of the Sacrifice (Very Rare). This item is very similar to the death skull of the wyrmling. What sets a death skull of sacrifice apart is how the skull was made. If the hag can get her hands on a living wyrmling then she will produce this version by doing her rituals on a living specimen. The user of a death skull of sacrifice can use Sacrificed Death Scream once per day with a range of 120 feet: 15-foot-radius area of effect. Sacrificed Death Scream. You create a burst of magically augmented screaming and terror that is horrendous to listen to. Targets caught inside the area of effect make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 26 (4d12) psychic damage and gain the paralyzed condition for one round. Targets outside of the area of effect who can hear the screaming sound must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or gain the frightened condition for one round. On the next combat round the area targeted by Sacrificed Death Scream is filled with energy damage associated with the type of wyrmling that donated the skull. The damage is 14 (4d6) per round for any creature that ends its turn in the spell area. This energy damage effect lasts for 1 round + the user’s Charisma modifier. Death Skull of Infanticide (Legendary) (attuned by spellcaster only). This item is the charred or pitted skull of an infant dragon with diamonds attached to the eye sockets. This skull does one of two things. If the user can cast finger of death or can use an object to create the spell effect, then this skull increases the potency of that spell. When the death skull of infanticide is used this way then the finger of death spell functions as normal but a survivor must make another Charisma save at the same spell DC or take an additional 18 (6d6) psychic damage. Any target immune to fear has advantage on this saving throw. The user of a death skull of infanticide can use this effect once per day. The second effect of the death skull of infanticide can be used once per turn as a reaction. A creature hit with any spell, cast by the user, also takes 6 (1d12) energy damage of the same type used by the infant dragon used to create this hellish device.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Rare to Legendary
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

