# Desire Shortsword (rare variant)

**description**: Weapon (any sword), very rare (optional attunement) Component: fiend poison gland Vice incarnate, the tail of this blade’s serpentine adornment oozes a viscous liquid of pure desire. Such weapons have been used in character-assassinations; a single slice can elicit impulsive acts branding desire’s victims as immoral pariahs. This weapon has 7 charges and regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Deadly Sins. As a bonus action when you hit a creature with this weapon, you can expend 1 charge to afflict the creature with a sinful desire. Roll a d8 and consult the table below. Each sin’s saving throw has a DC of 16. A creature afflicted by a sin that lasts 1 minute can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the sinful effect on a success. d8 Sin 1 Envy. The creature must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be afflicted by the bane spell for 1 minute. 2 Gluttony. The creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or become ravenously hungry and spend its action on its next turn looking for food and stuffing its face with whatever it can find. 3 Greed. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or spend its movement and action on its next turn trying to grab and abscond with a valuable item it can see. 4 Lust. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you for 1 minute. 5 Sloth. The creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or, for 1 minute, its speed is halved, it can’t take reactions, and it can take only a bonus action or action on its turn, not both. 6 Pride. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become hard headed for 1 minute, during which time it is unable to benefit from the Help action, withdraw from combat, or be the willing target of any spell or effect from another creature. 7 Wrath. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or, for 1 minute, use its reaction at the start of each of its turns to make one attack against a random creature within its reach/range. 8 Roll twice on this table, rerolling any 8s or duplicates. Optional Attunement. If you choose to attune to this item, it gains the Sssugessstion property. OA: Sssugessstion. As an action, you can cause the blade’s snake to turn invisible and slither to a creature you can see within 30 feet of you, where the snake whispers to it, casting the suggestion spell (save DC 16). If the suggestion isn’t a sinful one, the creature automatically succeeds on its saving throw. You can use this property twice, regaining all expended uses daily at dawn. Uncommon variant: Reduce the charges to 4, the recharge to 1d4, and the DCs to 13. Each of the Deadly Sins effects lasts until the end of your next turn. Once the Sssugessstion property has been used, it can't be used again until the next dawn. Rare variant: Reduce the DCs to 15. Each of the Deadly Sins effects lasts until the end of your next turn. Once the Sssugessstion property has been used, it can't be used again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (shortsword)
- Properties: Finesse, light
- Item Rarity: rare
- Requires Attunement: optional attunement

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

