# Devastation Orb

**description**: Devastation Orb Wondrous item, very rare A devastation orb is an elemental bomb that can be created at the site of an elemental node by performing a ritual with an elemental weapon. The type of orb created depends on the node used. For example, an air node creates a devastation orb of air . The ritual takes 1 hour to complete and requires 2,000 gp worth of special components, which are consumed. A devastation orb measures 12 inches in diameter, weighs 10 pounds, and has a solid outer shell. The orb detonates 1d100 hours after its creation, releasing the elemental energy it contains. The orb gives no outward sign of how much time remains before it will detonate. Spells such as identify and divination can be used to ascertain when the orb will explode. An orb has AC 10, 15 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Reducing it to 0 hit points causes it to explode instantly. A special container can be crafted to contain a devastation orb and prevent it from detonating. The container must be inscribed with symbols of the orb’s opposing element. For example, a case inscribed with earth symbols can be used to contain a devastation orb of air and keep it from detonating. While in the container, the orb thrums. If it is removed from the container after the time when it was supposed to detonate, it explodes 1d6 rounds later, unless it is returned to the container. Regardless of the type of orb, its effect is contained within a sphere with a 1 mile radius. The orb is the sphere’s point of origin. The orb is destroyed after one use. Air Orb. When this orb detonates, it creates a powerful windstorm that lasts for 1 hour. Whenever a creature ends its turn exposed to the wind, the creature must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or take 1d4 bludgeoning damage, as the wind and debris batter it. The wind is strong enough to uproot weak trees and destroy light structures after at least 10 minutes of exposure. Otherwise, the rules for strong wind apply, as detailed in chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide . Earth Orb. When this orb detonates, it subjects the area to the effects of the earthquake spell for 1 minute (spell save DC 18). For the purpose of the spell’s effects, the spell is cast on the turn that the orb explodes. Fire Orb. When this orb detonates, it creates a dry heat wave that lasts for 24 hours. Within the area of effect, the rules for extreme heat apply, as detailed in chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide . At the end of each hour, there is a ten percent chance that the heat wave starts a wildfire in a random location within the area of effect. The wildfire covers a 10-foot-square area initially but expands to fill another 10-foot square each round until the fire is extinguished or burns itself out. A creature that comes within 10 feet of a wildfire for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there takes 3d6 fire damage. Water Orb. When this orb detonates, it creates a torrential rainstorm that lasts for 24 hours. Within the area of effect, the rules for heavy precipitation apply, as detailed in chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide . If there is a substantial body of water in the area, it floods after 2d10 hours of heavy rain, rising 10 feet above its banks and inundating the surrounding area. The flood advances at a rate of 100 feet per round, moving away from the body of water where it began until it reaches the edge of the area of effect; at that point, the water flows downhill (and possibly recedes back to its origin). Light structures collapse and wash away. Any Large or smaller creature caught in the flood’s path is swept away. The flooding destroys crops and might trigger mudslides, depending on the terrain. Elemental Magic Items Elemental power has allowed the cults to have more magic items than is normal for groups of their size, yet there still aren’t enough magic items for each cultist to have one. Every member of the air cult, for example, would love to be able to soar on the wind, but only certain members have a magical ability or an item that confers that blessing. The cults have some special items that harness the power of the elemental nodes themselves. These items rely on energy siphoned from a node, and some of them must be recharged inside the appropriate type of node, as noted in the items’ descriptions. Otherwise, such an item ceases to function. Adventurers who recover a node-fueled item will, therefore, only be able to recharge it when an appropriate node is nearby.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 7390
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: very rare

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

