# Dragon's Fang

**description**: The Dragon’s Fang invokes the might of a dragon, empowering you to face similarly legendary foes. Legend A blacksmith’s apprentice, forsaking his trade, became squire to a dragonborn paladin. Though the knight fell in combat against a dragon, the squire escaped with his mentor’s blade and reforged it. Newly appointed by the ancient gold dragon master of their order, the young paladin continued his service in honor of his mentor’s memory. Location Dragon’s Fang is all too often found in the hoard of a dragon who proved too mighty for its former wielder. Other times, it can be found in a chapel reliquary, awaiting a worthy successor. Encounter Ideas Noble Gift. A metallic dragon disguised as a noble gifts the sword to an adventurer, charging them with defeating an encroaching evil dragon. Avenge Me! The spirit of a fallen warrior reveals the sword’s location in the heart of an enemy’s lair, imploring the party to recover the blade and vanquish their foe so the warrior’s spirit may finally rest. Worthy Hero. After proving themselves in a previous quest, a knight holding vigil offers the blade as a reward—if the heroes can defeat her in combat while she wields it. Progression The Dragon’s Fang progresses when tempered in the breath of a dragon—provided the wielder survives the damage. A wyrmling’s breath increases the rarity from common to uncommon, a young dragon’s breath from uncommon to rare, and so on. Statistics Weapon (Any Sword), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Roll20 Note: Although the links below lead to the scimitar version of the Dragon's Fang, there are automated greatsword, longsword, rapier, and shortsword versions of each as well. Common . This magic weapon acts as a dowsing rod for valuables, granting advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) checks to find treasure. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The bonus is increased to +2 against Dragons. Breath Weapon. You can use your action to exhale destructive energy. The size, shape, and damage type of the exhalations you can produce are determined by the colors of the dragons whose breath weapons have progressed the sword’s rarity, as seen in the Breath Weapon table below. When you use your breath weapon, each creature in the area of the exhalation must make a DC 13 saving throw, the type of which is also determined by the dragon’s color. A creature takes 3d6 damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. This property recharges after you finish a short or long rest. Breath Weapon Dragon Damage Type Size/Shape/DC Black Acid 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex save) Blue Lightning 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex save) Brass Fire 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex save) Bronze Lightning 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex save) Copper Acid 5 by 30 ft. line (Dex save) Gold Fire 15 ft. cone (Dex save) Green Poison 15 ft. cone (Con save) Red Fire 15 ft. cone (Dex save) Silver Cold 15 ft. cone (Con save) White Cold 15 ft. cone (Con save) Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, and to +3 against Dragons. The damage of Breath Weapon increases to 4d6 and its DC increases to 15. In addition, this property now has the possibility of recharging on each round of combat. At the start of each of your turns, roll a d6. On a 6, you regain the use of the Breath Weapon property. You gain resistance to the damage type of the breath weapon of each dragon that has progressed the sword’s rarity. Very Rare . The damage of Breath Weapon increases to 5d6 and its DC increases to 17. While the sword is on your person, you have a fly speed equal to your walking speed and advantage on saving throws against being frightened. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3, and to +4 against Dragons. The damage of Breath Weapon increases to 6d6, its DC increases to 19, and it now recharges on a roll of 5 or 6 on a d6. You are immune to the frightened condition. Legendary Resistance. If you fail a saving throw, you can choose to succeed instead. This property recharges after you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (any sword)
- Properties: Finesse, Light
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

