# Drown

**description**: Drown Weapon (trident), legendary (requires attunement) A steel trident decorated with bronze barnacles along the upper part of its haft, Drown has a sea-green jewel just below the tines and a silver shell at the end of its haft. It floats on the surface if dropped onto water, and it floats in place if it is released underwater. The trident is always cool to the touch, and it is immune to any damage due to exposure to water. Drown contains a spark of Olhydra, the Princess of Evil Water. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls you make with this magic weapon. When you hit with it, the targets takes an extra 1d8 cold damage. Water Mastery. You gain the following benefits while you hold Drown: You can speak Aquan fluently. You have resistance to cold damage. You can cast dominate monster (save DC 17) on a water elemental. Once you have done so, Drown can’t be used this way again until the next dawn. Tears of Endless Anguish. While inside a water node, you can perform a ritual called the Tears of Endless Anguish, using Drown to create a devastation orb of water (see the devastation orb description for the time and cost of the ritual). Once you perform the ritual, Drown can’t be used to perform the ritual again until the next dawn. Flaw. Drown makes its wielder covetous. While attuned to the weapon, you gain the following flaw: “I demand and deserve the largest share of the spoils, and I refuse to part with anything that’s mine.” In addition, if you are attuned to Drown for 24 consecutive hours, barnacles form on your skin. The barnacles can be removed with a greater restoration spell or similar magic, but not while you are attuned to the weapon. Elemental Weapons Each of the four prophets who leads a cult of Elemental Evil is armed with a mighty elemental weapon. These potent objects are infused with the essences of the Princes of Elemental Evil. In addition to the weapon’s obvious usefulness in battle, they serve as keys that allow the prophets to channel the power of the elemental nodes and rip open the boundary between the planes. The weapons also bring out the worst in their wielders, twisting their minds toward evil ends. Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged attack has a range in parentheses after the ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal range in feet, and the second indicates the weapon’s long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t attack a target beyond the weapon’s long range. Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength, but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the finesse property. Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the property—the damage when the weapon is used with two hands to make a melee attack. Damage: 1d6+1 (1d8+1) Damage Type: Piercing Secondary Damage: 1d8 Secondary Damage Type: Cold Properties: Range, Thrown, Versatile Range: 20/60 Weight: 4

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 7390
- Item Type: Weapon
- Properties: Range, Thrown, Versatile
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

