# Energy Bow (Template)

**description**: Weapon (Longbow or Shortbow), Very Rare (Requires Attunement) You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which has no string. Each time you pull your arm back in a firing motion, a magical arrow made of golden energy appears nocked and ready to fire. An arrow produced by this weapon deals Force damage instead of Piercing damage on a hit, and it disappears after it hits or misses its target. Until it disappears, the arrow emits Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. This weapon has the following additional properties. Arrow of Restraint. Whenever you use this weapon to make a ranged attack against a creature, you can try to restrain the target instead of dealing damage to it. If the arrow hits, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or have the Restrained condition for 1 minute. As an action, a creature Restrained by an arrow can make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to try to break the restraint, ending the effect on itself on a successful check. Arrow of Transport. As a Magic action, you can fire one energy arrow from this weapon at a target you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The target can be either a willing Medium or smaller creature or an object that isn’t being worn or carried, provided the object is small enough to fit inside a 5-foot Cube. The arrow teleports the target to an unoccupied space you can see within 10 feet of you. Energy Ladder. As a Magic action, you can loose a flurry of energy arrows from this weapon at a wall up to 60 feet away from yourself. The arrows become glowing rungs that stick out of the wall, forming a magical ladder up to 60 feet long on the wall. This ladder lasts for 1 minute before disappearing. Roll20 Note: This item is not supported for drag and drop. Hank draws his Energy Bow.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Theme: Armaments
- Mastery: Force
- Subtype: Weapon
- Expansion: 33335
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- data-List: false
- Properties: Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: No
- filter-Lists: Ranged Weapon, Yes
- filter-Damage: Ammunition
- filter-Charges: No
- data-datarecords: [{"name":"Energy Bow","payload":"{\"type\":\"Item\",\"name\":\"Energy Bow\",\"description\":\"You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which has no string. Each time you pull your arm back in a firing motion,\\na magical arrow made of golden energy appears nocked and ready to fire. An arrow produced by this weapon deals Force damage instead of Piercing damage on a hit, and it disappears after it hits or misses its target. Until it disappears, the arrow emits Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.\\n\\nThis weapon has the following additional properties.\\n\\nArrow of Restraint. Whenever you use this weapon to make a ranged attack against a creature, you can try to restrain the target instead of dealing damage to it. If the arrow hits, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or have the Restrained condition for 1 minute. As an action, a creature Restrained by an arrow can make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to try to break the restraint, ending the effect on itself on a successful check.\\n\\nArrow of Transport. As a Magic action, you can fire one energy arrow from this weapon at a target you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The target can be either a willing Medium or smaller creature or an object that isn't being worn or carried, provided the object is small enough to fit inside a 5-foot Cube. The arrow teleports the target to an unoccupied space you can see within 10 feet of you.\\n\\nEnergy Ladder. As a Magic action, you can loose a flurry of energy arrows from this weapon at a wall up to 60 feet away from yourself. The arrows become glowing rungs that stick out of the wall, forming a magical ladder up to 60 feet long on the wall. This ladder lasts for 1 minute before disappearing. \",\"weight\":\"\",\"properties\":[\"Ammunition\",\"Two-Handed\"],\"rarity\":\"Very Rare\",\"weaponData\":{\"category\":\"Ranged\",\"training\":\"\",\"type\":\"Longbow,Shortbow\"},\"equipData\":{\"equippable\":true}}"},{"name":"Energy Bow Attunement","parent":"Energy Bow","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attunement\",\"requireEquip\":true}"},{"name":"Energy Bow +1 Attack \u0026 Damage Effect","parent":"Energy Bow","payload":"{\"type\":\"Effect\",\"name\":\"Energy Bow +1 Bonus\",\"description\":\"You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls\\nmade with the Energy Bow.\",\"category\":[\"Attack\",\"Damage\"],\"flatValueFormula\":{\"flatValue\":1},\"situation\":\"You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls\\nmade with the Energy Bow.\"}"},{"name":"Arrow of Restraint Attack","parent":"Energy Bow Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Arrow of Restraint\",\"onHitDisplay\":\"Whenever you use this weapon to make a ranged attack against a creature, you can try to restrain the target instead of dealing damage to it. If the arrow hits, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or have the Restrained condition for 1 minute. As an action, a creature Restrained by an arrow can make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to try to break the restraint, ending the effect on itself on a successful check.\",\"description\":\"You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which has no string. Each time you pull your arm back in a firing motion,\\na magical arrow made of golden energy appears nocked and ready to fire. An arrow produced by this weapon deals Force damage instead of Piercing damage on a hit, and it disappears after it hits or misses its target. Until it disappears, the arrow emits Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.\\n\\nThis weapon has the following additional properties.\\n\\nArrow of Restraint. Whenever you use this weapon to make a ranged attack against a creature, you can try to restrain the target instead of dealing damage to it. If the arrow hits, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or have the Restrained condition for 1 minute. As an action, a creature Restrained by an arrow can make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to try to break the restraint, ending the effect on itself on a successful check.\\n\\nArrow of Transport. As a Magic action, you can fire one energy arrow from this weapon at a target you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The target can be either a willing Medium or smaller creature or an object that isn't being worn or carried, provided the object is small enough to fit inside a 5-foot Cube. The arrow teleports the target to an unoccupied space you can see within 10 feet of you.\\n\\nEnergy Ladder. As a Magic action, you can loose a flurry of energy arrows from this weapon at a wall up to 60 feet away from yourself. The arrows become glowing rungs that stick out of the wall, forming a magical ladder up to 60 feet long on the wall. This ladder lasts for 1 minute before disappearing. \",\"save\":{\"saveAbility\":\"Strength\",\"saveFlat\":15,\"onFail\":\"Restrained Condition for 1 minute or until succeeding on a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to end the effect\"}}"},{"name":"Energy Bow Arrow of Transport Magic Action","parent":"Energy Bow Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"Arrow of Transport\",\"description\":\"As a Magic action, you can fire one energy arrow from this weapon at a target you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The target can be either a willing Medium or smaller creature or an object that isn't being worn or carried, provided the object is small enough to fit inside a 5-foot Cube. The arrow teleports the target to an unoccupied space you can see within 10 feet of you.\",\"actionType\":\"Action\"}"},{"name":"Energy Bow Energy Ladder Magic Action","parent":"Energy Bow Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"Energy Ladder\",\"description\":\"As a Magic action, you can loose a flurry of energy arrows from this weapon at a wall up to 60 feet away from yourself. The arrows become glowing rungs that stick out of the wall, forming a magical ladder up to 60 feet long on the wall. This ladder lasts for 1 minute before disappearing. \",\"actionType\":\"Action\"}"}]
- filter-Attunement: Very Rare
- Name: Energy Bow
- data-description: You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which has no string. Each time you pull your arm back in a firing motion,
a magical arrow made of golden energy appears nocked and ready to fire. An arrow produced by this weapon deals Force damage instead of Piercing damage on a hit, and it disappears after it hits or misses its target. Until it disappears, the arrow emits Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.

This weapon has the following additional properties.

Arrow of Restraint. Whenever you use this weapon to make a ranged attack against a creature, you can try to restrain the target instead of dealing damage to it. If the arrow hits, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or have the Restrained condition for 1 minute. As an action, a creature Restrained by an arrow can make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to try to break the restraint, ending the effect on itself on a successful check.

Arrow of Transport. As a Magic action, you can fire one energy arrow from this weapon at a target you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The target can be either a willing Medium or smaller creature or an object that isn't being worn or carried, provided the object is small enough to fit inside a 5-foot Cube. The arrow teleports the target to an unoccupied space you can see within 10 feet of you.

Energy Ladder. As a Magic action, you can loose a flurry of energy arrows from this weapon at a wall up to 60 feet away from yourself. The arrows become glowing rungs that stick out of the wall, forming a magical ladder up to 60 feet long on the wall. This ladder lasts for 1 minute before disappearing. 
- data-RarityNum: 0

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Free Basic Rules (2024)

