# Essence of the Orb

**description**: Potion (legendary) This colorful liquid pulsates with energy. As an action, a creature can consume one dose of the liquid essence. The creature gains one essence point. The eyes of the creature start to glow with the color of the related orb and keep glowing until the creature has at least one essence point left. The creature can expend essence points to create spell slots as a sorcerer would or to use any metamagic option available to sorcerers. Either use of essence points is required to be for spells from the school of magic related to the orb. The creature can’t convert spell slots into essence points. The essence points acquired this way add up if they are not expended. With each dose consumed, the creature risks that the magical energies drain its body and mind. Consult the following table on the amount of essence points a character has and its effect whenever the creature gains a new essence point: 1 The creature must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. 2-4 The creature must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. 5-8 The creature must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. The creature must also succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be come charmed. A character charmed this way gains a short-term madness determined randomly. 9-13 The creature must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. The creature must also succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed. A character charmed this way gains a long-term madness determined randomly. 14-19 The creature must succeed on a DC 26 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. The creature must also succeed on a DC 26 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed. A character charmed this way gains an indefinite madness determined randomly. 20 The creature must succeed on a DC 30 Constitution saving throw or die and turn into a spellwarped abomination of the respective kind associated with the orb. On a successful save, the creature turns into an Aspect of the Wondermaker for one hour. A creature can have a different number of essence points from different schools of magic, but can’t have more than 20 essence points in total. Exhaustion levels and madness gained this way can’t be removed until the creature has essence points left, except with the use of a wish spell. A creature who consumes the essence of an orb gains advantage on its saving throws against the protective powers of all orbs of the Wondermaker for one hour. Aspect of the Wondermaker. A creature that has 20 essence points of a certain school of magic turns into an aspect of the Wondermaker. Each aspect represents a bodily manifestation of the god of magic through a school of magic. The creature gains the following powers as long as it remains an aspect of the Wondermaker: The creature gains a fly speed of 90 feet. The creature gains advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. The creature is not required to maintain concentration on spells that require concentration. The creature is surrounded by a 30-feet radius aura that functions as an antimagic field against spells and magical effects related to the respective school of magic. The aura does not affect spells cast by the aspect or an orb of the Wondermaker. Once per transformation, as an action, the creature can cast one spell from the respective school of magic regardless of the spell’s level and without expanding a spell slot but still requiring material components. 

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Potion
- Item Rarity: legendary

**publisher**: Elderbrain

**book**: Torrents of The Spellhoarder Compendium

