# Eye of the Golden God

**description**: Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement) A shining multifaceted violet gem sits at the center of this fist-sized amulet. A beautifully forged band of platinum encircles the gem and affixes it to a well-made series of interlocking platinum chain links. The violet gem is warm to the touch. While wearing this amulet, you can’t be frightened and you don’t suffer from exhaustion. In addition, you always know which item within 20 feet of you is the most valuable, though you don’t know its actual value or if it is magical. Each time you finish a long rest while attuned to this amulet, roll a d10. On a 1-3, you awaken from your rest with that many valuable objects in your hand. The objects are minor, such as copper coins, at first and progressively get more valuable, such as gold coins, ivory statuettes, or gemstones, each time they appear. Each object is always small enough to fit in a single hand and is never worth more than 1,000 gp. The GM determines the type and value of each object. Curse. This amulet is cursed and becoming attuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the amulet, wearing it at all times. You are cursed until targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic. While cursed, you attract the attention of cultists and devils tied to the golden god. Each time you finish a long rest, roll a d20. On an 18-20, followers of the golden god find you before your next long rest and try to kill you to take the amulet from you. The followers are minor cultists and devils at first and progressively get more powerful each time they appear. The golden god never appears as a result of this amulet’s curse. The GM determines what kind of followers attack you and in what quantities. Eye of the Golden God in Midgard Once the left eye of an ornate and magical statue of a pit fiend revered by a small cult of Mammon, this exquisiste purple gem was pried from the idol by an adventurer named Slick Finnigan. Slick and his companions had taken it upon themselves to eradicate the cult, eager for the accolades they would receive for defeating an evil in the community. The loot they stood to gain didn’t hurt either. After the assualt, while his companions were busy chasing the fleeing members of t he cult, Slick pocketed the gem, disfiguring the statue and weakening its power in the process. He was then attacked by a cultist who had managed to evade notice by the adventurers. Slick escaped with his life, and the gem, but was unable to acquire the second eye. Within days, the thief was finding himself assaulted by devils and cultists. He quickly offloaded his loot with a collection of merchants in town, including a jeweler who was looking for an exquisite stone to use in a piece commissioned by a local noble. Slick then set off with his pockets full of coin, happily leaving the devilish drama behind. This magical amulet attracts the attention of worshippers of Mammon, who can almost sense its presence and are eager to claim its power for themselves, though a few extremely devout members of the weakened cult wish to return the gem to its original place in the idol. Due to this, and a bit of bad luck, this amulet has changed hands many times over the decades.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

