# Eye of Perth

**description**: Wondrous item, Legendary (attunement) Attunement to this item is an evil act. The use of this item is also an evil act. When this eye is found outside of an attuned user it is usually stored in a safe place and looks like a bright orange eyeball with a misshapen iris. The eye is usually stored in a sterile liquid. This magical eye looks organic but it can only be damaged by magical or adamantite weapons, or spell damage. The eye of perth has 30 hit points and an armor class of 14 (20 if currently inserted in an eye socket). Attunement. In order to attune to this eye the user must pull out an eye from at least three sentient creatures, with one of the eyes being their own. The creature attempting to attune to the eye of perth must then burn the eyes while the victims are still alive and within 15 feet of the burning eyes. Once the eyes have burned to ash the user places the eye of perth into their empty eye socket. On the next round, each victim who had an eye burned, to include the one attempting to attune to the eye of perth, begins to writhe in pain as the foul magic begins to take hold. They each must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or die as their heart ruptures in their chest. Whoever has the eye of perth in their eye socket has advantage on this saving throw. Once only one victim is left alive the eye of perth is attuned to the survivor. If everyone fails their Constitution saving throw, then the survivor is the person who came the closest to succeeding. Small to large creatures can use the eye of perth. Powers. Once attuned and inserted (and not covered or concealed), the eye of perth gives the user darkvision up to 60 feet. This vision does not stack or increase pre-existing darkvision. The user of an eye of perth also has advantage on any saving throw to resist a gaze attack. The user can, as a bonus action, cast see invisibility 3/Day, which lasts for 1 minute. The user of an eye of perth can, as an action, cast eyebite (sickness only) 1/Day on any target within 60 feet that can also see the eye. Targets can resist this effect with a successful DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. The target can reattempt their save at the beginning of their turn. Once a target successfully saves against this eyebite attack, the target is immune to it for the next 24 hours. When this eye is attuned and inserted into an eye socket, the eye changes its appearance once until it is attuned to another. The user can choose for the eye of perth to resemble a natural eye or any other fantastic or beastial eye they can imagine. Side Effects. Depending on the appearance of the eye of perth, the user may have difficulty dealing with sentient creatures. Anyone looking at the eye for more than a few minutes can make a DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check to determine what the eye is. Anyone who learns what the eye is will know that the item is evil and will take appropriate actions depending on their power and alignment. Any creature with truesight will see the eye in its original form, that of a bright orange ball with a misshapen iris. The user cannot conduct a short or long rest if the eye is in their socket. They will find it impossible to concentrate, rest, or meditate. If the user wears this eye for more than 12 hours they will have disadvantage on any saving throws to resist exhaustion. This eye has no loyalty and can be stolen and attuned by another sentient creature. But if this does happen, and the creature currently attuned to it is on the same plane of existence, then they are forced to make the attunement saving throws above, with the same consequences if they fail. Hags and the Eye of Perth. No hag can attune to the eye of perth but a hag that can see the user of the eye can force a Charisma ability contest with the user. The hag can attempt this contest through scrying or any other means of remote viewing. If the hag wins the contest then the target is unaware that anything has happened and the hag can see from the user’s point of view for ten minutes. This effect can only be used three times a day by the hag. If the hag fails the Charisma contest then she must wait 2d4 hours before she can make another attempt. If the hag fails by more than 4 points, or rolls a critical failure, then the user of the eye of perth knows that a hag attempted to see from their eye and they gain advantage on all Charisma ability contests or saving throws against that hag for the next year and a day.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Legendary
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

