# Feathering

**description**: This bow not only fires arrows, but feathers and beaks as well. Legend The human fighter Elanore Peat wielded this bow for many years. Though its origin is unclear to most, it is rumored that Elanore sold a portion of her soul to a devil in exchange for the bow. In truth, Elanore was gifted the bow by a fey noble for her role in defending their domain from fiendish mercenaries hired by rival gentry. Location The bow is currently in the hands of Samwell Peat, a human blacksmith who has no use for the weapon. Though Samwell is an excellent smith, the rumors about his mother’s dealing with a devil impact his business. Encounter Ideas Lost Notebook. Elanore kept many journals recounting her adventures. The collection was bequeathed to Samwell in his mother’s will, but when her treasure chest was opened, no journals were found. If the party can return the lost journals, he will gladly give them the bow as a reward. They were stolen by Idris Font, a rival blacksmith whose business benefits from the persistent rumors of Elanore’s infernal bargain. Competitive Market. Struggling to keep his business afloat, Samwell sold the bow to a local noble who has listed it as the top prize in an archery contest that is to take place at an upcoming tourney. Archers from all around are coming to test their skills. Progression Feathering progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s Dexterity modifier increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. Statistics Weapon (Longbow or Shortbow), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Roll20 Note: Although the links below lead to the longbow version of the weapon, there is an automated shortbow version for each as well. Common . This bow weighs nothing. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Quick. When you roll initiative, roll a d4 and add the result to your initiative roll. You can use this property a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Rare . The bow gains the following property. Avian Armor. You can utter a command word to produce a swarm of hummingbirds that flutter around you for 1 minute. For the duration, you gain a +2 to bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws. In addition, if you are targeted by the magic missile spell, you take no damage, but the effect immediately ends. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a short or long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Wings. As a bonus action, you can utter a command word to gain a flying speed of 45 feet until the end of your next turn. When this effect ends, you fall if you are still aloft, unless you have a way to stop your fall. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a short or long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. Barrage of Beaks. When you hit with an attack using this bow, you can use your bonus action to cause a 60-foot cone of fey birds to fly from the bow. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d8 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (longbow or shortbow)
- Properties: Ammunition, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

