# Fire Shield of Rathume (Level 17)

**description**: This round, wooden shield is rimmed in iron. The wood is blackened as if burned by a terrible flame, yet the wood is as strong as steel. The ancient red dragon Abraxys the Red dwelt within a volcano in a ring of hills. The vile wyrm delighted in erupting from the volcano to breathe destruction and death on the people of the near-by towns. For generations, the oppressed people did what they could to combat the dragon, yet Abraxys’s reign of terror continued. Finally, a young warrior named Rathume pledged to rid the land of the cruel dragon. The townsfolk laughed—she was young and inexperienced. How could she hope to defeat such a monster? Rathume was undeterred. What she lacked in experience, she made up for in courage. What she lacked in battle prowess, she made up for in faith. The very next dawn, when Abraxys emerged from the volcano and swooped toward the town, the gates opened and Rathume emerged, holding a spear and clutching a large, wooden shield. The ancient dragon landed and grinned maliciously at the sight of the small human, standing alone in the grass. Abraxys roared with laughter as the girl strode confidently toward the mighty beast, quickly closing the distance between them. The great dragon drew back and prepared to incinerate the brash young woman. Suddenly, Rathume raised her shield and rushed forward. The startled dragon breathed forth gouts of flame, engulfing Rathume, yet she continued to rush forward, unaffected by the fire! Rathume plunged her spear into the dragon’s belly and there was a sudden, fiery blast which consumed them both. Only Rathume’s shield remained. It was blackened by the flames, yet otherwise unscathed. Miraculously, the powerful magic of the dragon and the heroic fire in Rathume’s heart had become somehow fused with the shield. Many generations of brave warriors have carried the fire shield of Rathume from then on, striving always to live up to the legend of the brave Rathume. Armor (shield), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wielding this shield, you can add the shield’s AC bonus to any Dexterity saving throw you make against a spell or other harmful effect that targets only you. Fire Dragon’s Bane (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wielding or holding this shield. 5th level. You have resistance to fire damage. In addition, you can use an action to cast the flame blade spell from the shield. Once used, the shield can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. In addition, you have advantage on saving throws against being frightened, and you have advantage on saving throws against the breath weapons of dragons. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. In addition, you are immune to fire damage 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. In addition, you have resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage, and you can use an action to make yourself immune to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage for 10 minutes or until you are no longer wielding this shield. Once used, the shield can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Shield
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

