# Flamefriend Lantern

**description**: Flamefriend Lantern Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) This wrought-iron lantern holds a small fire elemental spirit. To attune to this item, you must also succeed on a DC 10 Charisma check to bond with the spirit inside the lantern. Light and Flame. While attuned to the lantern, you can verbally ask the elemental to glow (no action required), causing the lantern to cast bright light in a radius of your choice up to 60 feet and dim light for the same distance beyond that. You can also cast the produce flame cantrip from the lantern at will. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for this spell. Elemental Essence. The fire elemental spirit in the lantern can grant you a small fragment of its power. As an action, you gain one of the following benefits of your choice for 1 hour: You have resistance to fire damage. Whenever a creature hits you with a melee attack, that creature takes fire damage equal to your proficiency bonus. You can cast the burning hands spell (spell save DC 15) from the lantern at 3rd level. Once you cast the spell, you can’t do so again until the next time you use this property of the lantern. Once the elemental has shared its power with you in this way, it can’t do so again until the next dawn. Willful Attunement. Your attunement to the lantern lasts until you choose to end it, or until you anger the elemental (by dousing the lantern in water, attacking another nonhostile elemental being, and so forth). You can attempt to attune to the lantern again and repeat the check to bond with the elemental during a short or long rest, but you make this check with disadvantage until you have made amends to the spirit, as the GM determines. He was given to me by your father, little one. He kept us warm while your father and I trekked through the Dreemoth Ravine and the ruins of Draconia twenty years ago. Such vicious blizzards, the likes of which are only topped by the Neverfields—or Eiselcross, so I’ve heard. You should have seen us, marching through the snow, dozens of Ashari cloaked in flame, melting trenches in the rime as they advanced, and me, my furs pulled around my nose, blinking through the snow, holding tight to this little one. When your father returned to Pyrah, I feared I’d never see our little flamefriend again, but…. Here, hold him, hear his little elemental heart fluttering. Think of your father when you feel that warmth, protecting you, watching over you. No matter where in the world you are, whether you’re near Pyrah or far, he’ll be a bit of family, and a bit of home. —Talus Naj, to his goddaughter, Ev of Pyrah

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Darrington Press

**book**: Tal'Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn

