# Flumph Whip

**description**: Looks strange and smells worse, but a force for good. Legend Fiends tortured a flumph, crafting its tentacles into a barbed whip. The flumph’s nature prevailed, however, creating a weapon the fiends could not bear to wield. Location The weapon has changed hands many times since its creators tried to dispose of it and is typically found underground. Encounter Ideas So Much Incense! An enemy has hidden the weapon behind incense burners meant to conceal its odor. I Can’t Eat That! The weapon was thrown into an otyugh pit, but the creature refuses to eat it. The otyugh uses its Limited Telepathy to try to trade it. No, You Take It! Two groups of evil creatures are encountered arguing over who has to take the “treasure” they just found. Neither wants it. Progression The Flumph Whip progresses each time the character performs impactful lawful or good acts, as determined by the GM. Statistics Weapon (Whip), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . You can use this malodorous whip to interact with or grab an unattended object within 10 feet that weighs less than 20 pounds. You can drop an object held by the whip in a space of your choice within 10 feet. An evil creature wielding or touching this weapon takes 1d6 force damage at the end of each their turns. Odor. The whip emits a strong smell of decay, which is noticeable to creatures that can smell that are within 15 feet of the whip. Perception checks based on smell have advantage to locate the whip or notice any creature who might be in possession of it. In addition, while attuned to the whip, you have disadvantage on Charisma checks. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit a Large or smaller target with the whip, you can also attempt to grapple the target using either a Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. You can still use the whip to attack a creature you have grappled. Only one creature can be grappled at a time. Rare . The weapon has 3 charges, and it regains all expended charges when you finish a long rest. You can use an action to expend 1 charge to do one of the following to a creature you have grappled with the whip: Flumph Friend. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed as if by a charm person spell (regardless of creature type). Grasp of the Flumph. The creature is restrained while grappled. Acid Bath. The creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 4d6 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the save DC for its properties increases to 16. This whip deals an extra 2d6 acid damage on a hit. When you score a critical hit against a creature with this whip, you can immediately expend a charge from this weapon without using an action. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3, the acid damage increases to 3d6, the save DC for its properties increases to 17, and its total number of charges increases to 5. When you hit a target with this whip, you can move it 5 feet to an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you. Spells. While holding the whip, you can use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells (save DC 17): stinking cloud (3 charges) or cloudkill (5 charges).

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (whip)
- Properties: Finesse, Reach
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

