# Foulton Door

**description**: Foulton Door Decades ago, long before I possessed the scholarly renown I currently enjoy, my children came to dinner chattering and brim-full of faerie stories from their governess. From soup to cheese, they told tales of a hero possessed of a “Folding Door” that fit in his pocket. When “unfolded” to full size it could be set anywhere (a stone wall, a tree, a waterfall) and opened to anywhere in the wide world, whisking the hero and her companions away from trouble in a trice. Too young to separate fact from fiction, yet old enough to recognize the prowess of their father, they asked me to craft them such a door. I explained that an object able to produce instant, multiple-location, inter-planar conjuration was impossible. To ease the sting of their disappointment, I explained that their story, while pure nonsense, was still interesting from an etymological standpoint. Centuries ago, a wizard named Foulton Konig was famed for creating magical doors. Sadly, specific details are lacking as his labs, libraries, and notes were lost when his mansion was destroyed in a catastrophically thorough, but historically non-specific way. My children were fascinated to hear my theory that metaplasmic drift in the language (doubtless working in concert with poor education and rustic accents) eventually led a genuine product of magical artifice (a door made by Foulton) to eventually enter folklore as a “Folding Door.” This was my first brush with my eventual life’s work and passion: my endless quest to separate the history of artifice from stories of the artificial. As such, I feel an odd gratitude toward their old governess, and occasionally feel a bit of remorse about ending her employment over the incident. Still, there are genuine wonders aplenty in the world without cluttering the minds of the young with nonsense. Mine is an endless struggle to separate fact from fancy, as shown by events of three months ago. Out conducting research, (while cunningly disguised to mix among the common folk) a seemingly reputable vendor of magical curiosities offered to sell me “a fragment of a Foulton Door.” (Note Fig 1. a splinter of wood, slightly longer than a handspan across.) Destroyed long ago, so powerful were the original doors that if even a small piece such as this were incorporated into an existing door, it would become imbued with the power of a magic portal. A quick check revealed the shard of wood did , in fact, possess a powerful, unfamiliar dweomer. With dubious curiosity, I bought it, returned to my lab, and followed their instructions. My tools and talents are not designed for anything so base as carpentry, but in the pursuit of truth I dutifully paid several hours of my precious time, a set of skinned knuckles, and one badly hammered thumb to patch the piece of wood into one of the secondary pantry’s doors. I then inserted the key to my winter lodgings, concentrated, and opened the door as the merchant had instructed me. Nothing happened, of course, and when I checked, the wood no longer showed any traces of magic. When I returned to the merchant to demand both an ethical and economic accounting, he had the audacity to imply it was my own fault, and refused to admit his obvious charlatanry or refund the twenty gold I had spent. While I regularly spend much greater sums in the course of my research, I nevertheless engaged the constabulary to bring the fellow into custody, as behavior such as this does nothing but defraud the simple-minded and tarnish the reputation of those engaging in legitimate arcane pursuits…. Excerpt from Lord Garrison Braithwhite’s monograph - Gold Among the Dross: On the Arcane Origins of Peasant Superstition. Wondrous item, fabled Rumored to be pieces of destroyed magical doors, fragments of a Foulton door are quite varied in their shapes and sizes. Flinders of wood, bands of iron, screws, or even shards of broken glass are the most common, while intact and usable hinges, knobs, or entire planks of wood are rare. Although useless on their own, if you incorporate a fragment into an existing door, its magic allows that door to open to another location, even one on another plane of existence. Incorporating Fragments. To incorporate a fragment into a door, a creature must spend 1 hour working on the door and make a DC 15 ability check (Strength, Dexterity, or Intelligence, depending on the type of fragment and how it is being incorporated), using the appropriate set of tools (carpenter’s for wood fragments, glassblower’s for glass shards, smith’s for hinges and door knobs, and similar). If the check fails by 5 or more, the fragment incorporates into the door, but the door gains a negative quirk. If the check succeeds by 5 or more, the fragment incorporates into the door, and the door gains a positive quirk. See the Quirks section for more details. The DC increases by 1 for each fragment added to a door beyond the first, but the DC can never be higher than 25. You can remove a fragment from a door by repeating the check, but removing a fragment doesn’t result in a quirk. Using the Door. After you incorporate the fragment into a door, you must insert a key from any door into the lock and turn it while clearly imagining the desired location. The door emits a quiet hum then opens to that location, if it is within range. The door might have an additional effect, depending on its characteristics, the fragments incorporated into it, or the type of quirks it gained while incorporating fragments. See the Characteristics, Fragment Powers, and Quirks sections for more details. When a door has only one fragment, you can use an action to open the door to a door, doorway, or other similar entryway or egress of your choice within 100 miles of the door, and the travel is one-way, meaning a creature that steps through the door can’t step back through it. The door remains open for up to 1 minute. The door can’t be used this way again until the next dawn. When a door has two or more fragments, it has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. Opening the door expends 1 charge. Door Statistics. A door containing a fragment has an Armor Class of 15, 20 hit points, and a damage threshold of 5. It has immunity to poison and psychic damage. If the door is destroyed, it releases its magic in an explosion that fills a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on it. Each creature within 5 feet of the door has a 50 percent chance to instantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoiding the explosion. Each creature in the explosion’s area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking force damage equal to 8 x the number of fragments in the door on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The door’s fragments retain their magic, but they have new powers, as determined by the Fragment Powers table, when incorporated into a new door. Any new door built with these fragments doesn’t have the same characteristics or quirks as the door that exploded. Characteristics A door with three or more fragments develops unique characteristics. Choose a characteristic when you incorporate the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12th fragments. At the GM’s discretion, you can choose an additional characteristic for every three fragments beyond the 12th. You can choose each characteristic only once, unless the characteristic’s description says otherwise. The characteristics are presented in alphabetical order. If a characteristic requires a number of fragments, the door must have at least that number of fragments to gain that characteristic. If a characteristic requires you to incorporate a nonmagical object, such as a pane of glass or doorknob, into the door, you must incorporate that item before you can use that characteristic. Incorporating a nonmagical object into the door doesn’t result in a quirk, but failure means you didn’t incorporate the object and must repeat the check to incorporate it. Folding Door (9 Fragments Required). You can spend 1 minute folding the door into a flat plank of wood 3 inches long and 1 inch wide. You can use an action to throw the plank to a point on the ground you can see within 30 feet of you, and it immediately unfolds into its normal size. If you step through the open door then fold it, you can carry the door with you in the new location. Foulton’s Key (9 Fragments Required). When you incorporate this fragment, you must also spend 1 hour performing a magical ritual while touching a nonmagical key to the door. At the end of the ritual, the key transforms into a Foulton key. You can use an action to turn the Foulton key in the keyhole of any nonmagical door and open that door onto the location of your Foulton door , as if you stepped through the Foulton door from the other side. You can tie a new key to the door by performing the same 1-hour ritual. You can have only one Foulton key tied to your Foulton door at a time. If you tie another key to it, the effect on the previous key ends. Heart’s Desire (6 Fragments Required). You can use an action to touch a heart-shaped section of the door and open it onto a location within 100 feet of something you desire. The target must still be within the door’s normal distance and planar restrictions. The GM decides to which of your desires the door leads. You must incorporate a heart-shaped object, knocker, or panel, or you must paint the shape of a heart somewhere on the door when you select this characteristic. Home (12 Fragments Required). You can use an action to speak a command word to magically bind an object that can be turned, such as a doorknob, gear, or wheel, to a specific location. The door must have been stationary in the chosen location for at least 24 hours before you can create this magical bond. When you turn that object as part of the same action as opening the door, the door opens onto the bound location, regardless of distance or planar separation between the door and the bound location. If you open the door without turning the object, it opens onto the desired destination, as normal. You must incorporate an object that can be turned, such as a doorknob, gear, or wheel, into the door when you select this characteristic. You can choose this characteristic more than once, increasing the number of locations to which the door can be bound. Each time you select it, you must incorporate a new object that can be turned into the door and that object must be one of the targets of the magical bond. If you previously incorporated an object with multiple sides, like a hanging lantern or a wheel with spokes, you can make a different side of that object the target of the magical bond instead of incorporating a new object. Letterbox. You can use an action to place a single sheet of paper or parchment inside a letterbox on the door while thinking of a specific creature you know. This works like the sending spell, except the message must be written on the sheet of paper or parchment and the target can’t respond. If the target is on a plane of existence where the door can’t ordinarily travel, the message remains in the letterbox, unsent. If the target is on a plane of existence where the door can travel, the message disappears from the letterbox and appears within the target’s reach, even if the target is on a different plane than you or outside of the door’s normal range. Once you send a message with the letterbox, you can’t send another message until the next dawn, unless you expend 1 charge. You can send one additional letter for each charge you expend. You must incorporate a letterbox into the door when you select this characteristic. Through the Looking Glass. After expending a charge and choosing a destination, you can look through a glass pane on the door to see what lies on the other side of it, allowing you to decide whether to open the door or what preparations might be necessary before opening it. You must incorporate a glass pane into the door when you select this characteristic. Two-Way Door. The door becomes two-way, allowing any creature that steps through it to step back through it as long as the door remains open. You must incorporate a metal hinge into the door when you select this characteristic. Visitor (6 Fragments Required). When you open the door, you can concentrate on a specific creature whose name you know instead of a location. The door opens onto a location within 1 mile of the creature, if such a door, doorway, or entryway is within your door’s normal distance and planar restrictions. How Many Fragments For a Full Door? Since the fragment sizes are so variable, the number of fragments required to “complete” a Foulton door is at the GM’s discretion. Most adventurers go their entire lifetimes without ever constructing more than half a Foulton door , and there is no reason the players or GM should feel obligated to create a full door out of the fragments. Some groups might never have more than three fragments while others might have twenty. As the GM, choose whatever number or style best fits your group and the story you all want to tell. The variablility of the characteristics, fragment powers, and quirs leave you and your group plenty of room to make the door as complete, unique, and fragmented as you need it be. Fragment Powers Each fragment you incorporate into a door increases the door’s power. When you incorporate a fragment into the door, roll ad1000 and consult the Fragment Powers table. Alternatively, your GM might choose a specific power for the fragment you incorporate, such as an iron band fragment that increases the door’s damage threshold or an old, battered doorknob that leads to a particular plane of the Hells. d100 Power 1-20 The distance the destination can be from the door’s current location increases by 100 miles. 21-40 The door’s hit points increase by 10. 41-55 The door can remain open for 1 additional minute. 56-70 The door’s damage threshold increases by 2. 71-80 The door’s maximum number of charges increases by 1. The door regains a number of expended charges daily at dawn equal to the nearest die type, rounded down (1d4 for 5 charges, 1d6 for 6 charges, etc.). 81-90 The door’s Armor Class increases by 1. 91-95 The door has immunity to one addtional type of damage. (GM’s choice). 96-00 The door can travel to one additional plane (GM’s choice). Quirks When you incorporate a fragment into a door, you must make an appropriate tool check, as detailed in the Foulton door entry. When you succeed or fail by 5 or more, the door gains a quirk. Here we present tables of the types of quirks the door can acquire. Lesser quirks happen if the check succeeds (positive) or fails (negative) by 5–9. Greater quirks happen if the check succeeds (positive) or fails (negative) by 10 or more. When the door develops a quirk, consult the appropriate Quirks table, rolling the indicated die. Alternatively, your GM might choose a quirk that best fits the group or the situation of the success or failure. At the GM’s discretion, if the door has a quirk you want to remove, spells such as fabricate , greater restoration , or remove curse might remove one or all of a door’s quirks. Alternatively, the GM might require you to complete a specific task related to the quirk before removing it. Lesser Negative Quirks d8 Quirk 1 Each creature that steps through the door exits the other side soaking wet as if it just stepped out of a lake. 2 The first time a creature steps through the door each day, it decreases in size by 10 percent. This effect lasts until the creature is targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic. 3 If a dangerous creature with an Intelligence of 4 or lower is within 100 feet of the destination, the door magically attracts the creature to come to the door. 4 Travel through the door is no longer instantaneous. Each creature that steps through the door arrives at the destination 10 minutes after it stepped through the door at the origin. 5 Stepping through the door causes vertigo and mild nausea. Each creature that steps through the door is poisoned for 1 minute. 6 The door makes noise, such as creaky hinges, a dinging bell, a trumpet blast, or smiliar loud sound, when it is opened, which is audible within 100 feet of the door at the origin and destination locations. 7 The door dampens sound for travelers. Each creature that steps through the door is deafened for 10 minutes. 8 The door brings misfortune on travlers. Each creature that steps through the door is affected by the bane spell for 1 hour. Lesser Positive Quirks d8 Quirk 1 When you open the door, there is a 25 percent chance the door doesn’t expend a charge. 2 Each time a creature steps through the door, it exits the other side clean, with freshly mended and laundered clothes, neatly trimmed hair, or similar signs of cleanliness. 3 If a dangerous creature with an Intelligence of 4 or lower is within 100 feet of the destination, the door magically repulses the creature, discouraging it from coming within 100 feet of the door. 4 Each creature that steps through the door can’t be frightened for 1 hour. 5 Stepping through the door invigorates travelers. Each creature that steps through the door has advantage on attack rolls and ability checks for 1 minute. 6 Each creature that steps through the door becomes aesthetically pleasing to other creatures and has advantage on Charisma checks to interact socially with other creatures for 10 minutes. 7 The door becomes more accepting of new fragments. Any creature incorporating a fragment has advantage on the check. 8 The door brings fortune on travelers. Each creature that steps through the door is affected by the bless spell for 1 hour. Greater Negative Quirks d6 Quirk 1 The door always arrives at a dangerous location within 1 mile of the desired destination, unless the desired destination is already dangerous. 2 Once opened, the door must remain open for its full duration. 3 Travel through the door is no longer instantaneous. Each creature that steps through the door arrives at the destination 1 hour after it stepped through the door at the origin. This quirk replaces the lesser negative quirk that also makes the door’s travel no longer instantaneous, if the door has that quirk. 4 Each creature that steps through the door must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC equals 10 + the number of fragments in the door). On a failure, a creature arrives at the destination but is incapacitated for 1 minute. 5 When the door closes, it can’t be reopened for 1 hour. 6 When you open the door, it expends 2 charges instead of 1. Greater Positive Quirks d6 Quirk 1 When you open the door, there is a 50 percent chance the door doesn’t expend a charge. This quirk replaces the lesser positive quirk that also gives the door a chance to not expend a charge, if the door has that quirk. 2 If the destination location is dangerous, the door grows warm to the touch and is “stuck” for a moment when you try to open it, requiring you to pull or push a second time to open the door fully. 3 You no longer need a key to open the door. You must still use an action and expend a charge (or charges if the door has that quirk) to open the door. In addition, if the door has the Foulton’s Key characteristic, the maximum number of Foulton Keys you can tie to the door increases to 4. 4 The door becomes more accepting of new fragments. The DC to incorporate a fragment reduces by 5. 5 The Fragment Power of the fragment you incorporated into the door when you received this quirk becomes more potent. The fragment’s numerical power is doubled. For example, if the fragment’s power increases the distance the door can travel by 100 miles, it increases that distance by 200 miles instead. 6 Each creature that steps through the door regains 2d6 hit points. When a creature regains hit points in this way, it can’t regain hit points by stepping through the door again until it finishes a short or long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

