# Fragmenting Flail

**description**: One person’s damaged armor is another person’s deadly instrument. Legend Created by a resourceful artificer incapable of letting scrap metal go to waste, the Fragmenting Flail shatters weapons and armor and assimilates the shrapnel into its striking head. The flail’s head consists of a spherical lodestone with jagged pieces of metal attached at precarious angles. Location The flail is currently owned by Ruka Gandor, an enterprising blacksmith. Unaware of the flail’s potential, Ruka has been casually wielding the flail as a tool more than a weapon, using the flail’s common properties to easily collect metal shavings and scrap. Encounter Ideas Witness the Power. The adventurers arrive at the blacksmith’s forge to purchase equipment and witness the blacksmith using the flail to collect scrap metal. Random Treasure. On a quest to collect and reforge the shards of a shattered sword, the adventurers locate one of the shards attached to the flail’s head. Investigators. News spreads of an enormous explosion of shrapnel at a blacksmith’s forge, resulting in the death of many civilians. The blacksmith claims the explosion was caused by one of her tools, but no one believes her. Progression The Fragmenting Flail progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, so does the weapon’s rarity. Statistics Weapon (Flail), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . As an action, you twist a metal ring on the handle, causing 1d10 Tiny or smaller nonmagical metal objects not being worn or carried within a 10-foot radius to be drawn to the flail’s head and attached to it. The attached objects may change the weapon’s damage type from bludgeoning to piercing or slashing (at the GM’s discretion). As an action, you can release all attached objects harmlessly. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Manufactured Critical. When you hit with an object with an attack using this flail, you can choose to turn that hit into a critical hit. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a short or long rest. Rare . Magnetic Draw. When you hit a creature with an attack using this weapon, you can have all creatures wearing metal within a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on you make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failure, each creature is moved 5 feet closer to you. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a short or long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, and the save DC for Magnetic Draw increases to 17. Shrapnel. As an action, you can cause the objects attached to the flail to explode in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on you. All creatures (except you) must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d6 magical piercing damage on a failure, and half as much on a success. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a short or long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3, and the save DC for Magnetic Draw increases to 19. Eroding Critical. On a critical hit with this weapon, the target must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw if it is wearing metal armor. On a failure, the target’s metal armor or shield takes a permanent and cumulative –1 penalty to the AC it offers. Armor reduced to an AC of 10 or a shield that drops to a +0 bonus is destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (flail)
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

