# Frozen Bolt

**description**: Cold as the heart of a frost giant, the Frozen Bolt strikes true and freezes the blood of your enemies. Legend It is said that the Frozen Bolt is a splinter of ice broken off a winter god’s arm. Considering it is made of an unbreakable ice that never melts, there may be some truth to that story. Location Nomads from the frozen wastes share stories claiming that the arctic witch Hrimgeirya Frostiron ( archmage ) possesses the Frozen Bolt in a tower of glittering ice. Hrimgeirya is known to summon creatures of elemental ice to ensure her privacy, so getting to the bolt will be difficult. Encounter Ideas Arctic Cartography. The party is given a map by a merchant from the north that leads to a magical tower which appears seemingly out of nowhere as the heavy snows thin. The tower belongs to Hrimgeirya Frostiron. If You Can’t Stand the Heat... Hrimgeirya Frostiron requires adventurers to gather rare reagents from the deep jungle. Her ice elementals are ineffective in the jungle’s high temperatures so she is unwilling to go herself but will reward the party with the fabled Frozen Bolt for their efforts on her behalf. Need a Hand? A pack of good-aligned winter wolves approach the party; the leader clutches the Frozen Bolt in their jaws. They seek someone who can wield the weapon and ask for their help in attacking the frost giants who slew their friend, Hrimgeirya Frostiron. Progression The Frozen Bolt progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. As the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, so does the weapon’s rarity. However, in addition to the required increase in proficiency bonus, to progress from very rare to legendary, the attuned creature or their allies must kill an ancient red dragon during a combat encounter in which the dragon has been wounded by the Frozen Bolt in its very rare form. Statistics Weapon (Spear), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . When you hit with an attack using this magic weapon, the target’s speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit with an attack using this weapon, the target takes an extra 1d6 cold damage. Rare . Iceplosion. Whether you hit or miss with this weapon, you can cause shards of ice to explode outward from it in a 15-foot radius around the target. Each creature in the area (including you) must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d6 piercing damage plus 2d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The affected area is covered in a slippery sheen of ice, making it difficult terrain for 1 minute. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the save DC of Iceplosion increases to 16. Freeze Stiff. When you hit a creature with an attack using this weapon, you can force the target to make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target is cocooned in ice, becoming petrified for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. A freedom of movement spell causes the ice to shatter, instantly freeing the target. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. In addition, the save DCs of Iceplosion and Freeze Stiff increase to 17 and the damage of Iceplosion increases to 3d6. Immediately after making a ranged attack with this weapon, it flies back to your hand.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (spear)
- Properties: Thrown, Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

