# Gangrene

**description**: This weapon has a disdain for flesh, causing it to slough away in black, sickly chunks from any creature that its steel touches. Legend Thought to have been forged in one of the disease-ridden layers of the Abyss, Gangrene , in its legendary form, can lay waste to entire armies. Hardened warriors have run screaming after seeing a comrade brought down in gut-wrenching fashion by this horrifying weapon. Location Throughout the ages, those who harbor darkness in their hearts have sought this weapon. Gangrene has passed through many cult leaders’ hands, as well as countless other ne’er do wells over time. Scholars have suggested that it calls to potential wielders, seeking out those who can feed it the most flesh. Encounter Ideas Rotten Food. An innkeeper whose food stores are rotting in parts asks the party to investigate the putrefying phenomenon. Melted Flesh. The adventurers come across an abandoned caravan or traveling salesperson’s cart where the victims’ flesh has seemingly melted off their bones. Withering Touch. Rumors reach the adventurers of a cult leader able to wither flesh with just a touch of their scepter (mace). Progression Gangrene progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, so does the weapon’s rarity. However, in addition to the required increase in proficiency bonus, to progress from very rare to legendary, three creatures must be reduced to 0 hit points by an attack using Gangrene in a single combat. Statistics Weapon (Mace), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . As an action, you can touch this weapon to a portion of food no more than 1 cubic foot in volume, instantaneously rotting it. Once used, you can’t use this property again until you finish a long rest. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Rot. When you hit a creature with an attack using this weapon, its runes pulse a sickly green and the target must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or take an extra 1d4 necrotic damage. Rare . The extra necrotic damage increases to 1d8 and the save DC of the Constitution saving throw increases to 13. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. In addition, the extra necrotic damage is dealt automatically (no saving throw is made by the target). Fester. When you hit a creature with an attack using this weapon, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be unable to regain hit points until the start of your next turn. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the additional necrotic damage increases to 2d8. Fester’s save DC increases to 18 and the target can’t regain hit points until lesser restoration or similar magic is cast on them. In addition, if the target is a flesh-and-blood creature and Fester’s damage reduces them to 0 hit points, the remainder of their flesh turns black, falls off their bones, and they die immediately.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (mace)
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

