# Gauntlets of the Arcane Fist

**description**: These golden gauntlets are covered with arcane, spiral symbols of pure silver. Riggslet (‘Riggs’, for short) was a halfling wizard who traveled with the legendary Gax the Great for a time. The thing Riggs most hated about himself was his stature. Despite his considerable skill with magic, the little halfling’s most profound wish was that he had been born big, strong, and physically powerful. Gax always told his friend that true strength comes from within, but Riggs continued to lament his physical weakness and size. Finally, when he could bear his friend’s complaints no longer, Gax gave Riggs a wonderful gift—a pair of magnificent, enchanted gauntlets. When wearing the gauntlets, Riggs gained great strength and found his magic enhanced in wondrous ways. In time, Gax and Riggs came to a small village near a high mountain pass. The people there welcomed the strangers, who happily remained in the village for many weeks. Then, the giants attacked. Gax and Riggs battled the giants and did everything they could to defend the village. Riggs used the power of his gauntlets to great effect, but in the end, he found it was his bravery and willingness to give his life to protect the villagers that truly won the day. Gax had been right—Riggs’s true strength had indeed been inside him all along. From then on, Riggs was known as Riggslet Giantsbane. Many years later, the brave halfling returned to the mountain village and retired, content to live out his days among the people he had protected years earlier. Riggs never had children, but he did take on an apprentice, a small girl with a gift for magic. It is believed that Riggs bestowed his magical gauntlets to his student on his deathbed, though the girl remained silent on the subject. She left the village a few days after her mentor’s death to make her mark on the world. If she had Riggs’s gauntlets of the arcane fist with her when she left, none can say. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing these gauntlets, your Strength score is 19. The gauntlets have no effect on you if your Strength is already 19 or higher. Empowered Fists (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing these gauntlets. 5th level. You are proficient with unarmed strikes, and your unarmed strike uses a d4 for damage. In addition, you have advantage on the first unarmed attack roll you make each turn. If you roll a 20 for the attack roll, this property ceases to function until you roll a 1 or until you finish a short rest. 9th level. When you score a critical hit with an unarmed strike, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier) or be knocked prone. In addition, you can use a bonus action to hit the gauntlets together to charge them with arcane energy for 1 minute. When you hit with an unarmed strike while the gauntlets are charged with arcane energy, the unarmed strike deals an extra 1d4 force damage. Once used, the gauntlets can’t be charged with arcane energy again until the next dawn. Alternatively, you can use a bonus action to expend a spell slot of 1st level or higher to charge the gauntlets with arcane energy again. 13th level. Your unarmed strikes count as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage. In addition, you can use an action to create a Large, translucent, gauntleted hand. This works like the arcane hand spell, except the duration is 10 minutes. You must still concentrate to maintain the spell. Your spellcasting ability for this spell is Strength. Once used, the gauntlets can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 17th level. While charged with arcane energy, your unarmed strikes now deal an extra 2d4 force damage on a hit. In addition, when using the arcane hand property of the gauntlets, the damage from the clenched fist option increases to 8d8 and the damage from the grasping hand option increases to 6d6.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

