# Gavyn's Knuckle

**description**: I’ve got your “punchline” right here! Legend Barrel Brothers Alehouse is famous for hosting a decades-old competition of wrestling and masochism to crown the Barrel King. For the first Barrel Brawl, the brothers awarded a gag prize—a club carved in the likeness of the oldest brother Gavyn’s fist. Tradition has it that the winner keeps the club for a year, then returns to defend their title, relinquishing the club to the new winner if they lose. The competition grew and now many notable heroes have carried Gavyn’s Knuckle . Through the sheer power of bravado, brawn, and legend the club has become a magical weapon in its own right. Location Gavyn’s Knuckle is currently wielded by the oblivious but charismatic dwarven gladiator Brogus, though the next Barrel Brawl is swiftly approaching. Encounter Ideas Brute Force. Quinn Dusk, a cruel slumlord, is intent on possessing the club to sow further fear and terror. They have sent their fiercest competitors to the Barrel Brawl to win the club. Mediation. Brogus lost the club under “dishonorable circumstances” in a lover’s quarrel with the satyr Chadrian. He needs help getting it back. Exotic Steeds. The stablemaster Kaito wishes to catch a flock of pegasi and believes the club will help with this task. Progression Gavyn’s Knuckle progresses when it accomplishes a public feat of strength, such as successfully pinning or winning in one-on-one combat, against a larger or brawnier foe, though what makes such a feat worthy of progression is at the GM’s discretion. However, in the case of defeating a larger foe in single combat, to progress to very rare rarity, the foe must be at least one size category larger than you, and to progress to legendary, they must be two size categories larger. Statistics Weapon (Greatclub), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . When you score a critical hit against a Large or smaller creature with this magical weapon, you can choose to grapple the target (escape DC 11). You may only grapple one creature at a time with this weapon and while it grapples a creature, you can’t attack with it. Uncommon . The escape DC for the weapon’s grapple increases to 13. Grab. When you hit a creature with this weapon, you can immediately attempt to grapple the creature using the weapon (Athletics +5). Throw. As a bonus action, you can throw a creature grappled by Gavyn’s Knuckle up to 10 feet in a random direction. The creature takes 1d6 damage for every 10 feet thrown and is knocked prone. If thrown directly at another creature and the two collide, that creature must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage. Rare . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The escape DC for the weapon’s grapple increases to 15, its Athletics bonus increases to +7, and it can now throw grappled creatures up to 20 feet. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, the escape DC for the weapon’s grapple increases to 17, its Athletics bonus increases to +9, and it can now throw grappled creatures up to 40 feet. While you wield Gavyn’s Knuckle , it has a reach of 10 feet. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3, the escape DC for the weapon’s grapple increases to 19, its Athletics bonus increases to +11, and it can now throw grappled creatures up to 60 feet. In addition, Gavyn’s Knuckle can now grapple Huge creatures.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (greatclub)
- Properties: Two-handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

