# Gergulsush

**description**: Is it a whip, or something else? Legend The eccentric fighter Dubious Swath made friends with an unlikely monstrosity—a mimic named Gergulsush. The mimic, trapped in the lower bowels of an abandoned castle, attacked Dubious, grappling him with the intention of eating him. Dubious remained calm and offered a truce: spare his life in exchange for removal from the keep. The mimic agreed. From then on, Gergulsush fought alongside Dubious, lashing out its sticky tongue and grappling their foes. However, after many years of companionship, Gergulsush became old and frail. Afraid of losing his monstrous friend forever, Dubious commissioned a wizard to transform Gergulsush into a living weapon, so the two could continue to battle alongside one another. Location Sadly, Dubious and Gergulsush ventured into an old keep with foes too mighty for the duo to defeat. The whip now rests once again in the lower level of a keep, trapped next to Dubious’s decaying body. Encounter Ideas Rumors. Locals tell tales of a lost fighter wielding a sticky, tongue-like whip. The fighter may have perished in a nearby eerie keep. Stick it to Ya! The characters encounter a group of ruffians ( gladiators ), one of which wields Gergulsush. Treasure. A gnome merchant travels with the whip locked in a metal cage. The monstrous weapon keeps eating his exotic birds and lizards, but he knows the weapon is unique and hopes to sell it soon. Progression Gergulsush progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, so does the weapon’s rarity. Statistics Weapon (Whip), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . The whip’s handle is tacky, allowing you to grip it firmly. You can’t drop this whip unless you choose to and checks made to forcefully remove the whip from your hand have disadvantage. A Mimic Says What? You know how to speak Mimic, which is a series of grunts, slurps, belches, groans, and guttural sounds. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. What Is It? As a bonus action, you can speak a command word to change the form of the whip into an object of similar size, or back into its whip form. While in object form, it is indistinguishable from an ordinary object. Sticky. When you hit a target with an attack using this weapon, you can choose to have the whip adhere to it. The target is grappled (escape DC 13). Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, and the escape DC of Sticky increases to 15. Extended Reach. The whip’s reach extends to 15 feet. Very Rare . Mimic Ally. As a bonus action, you can drop the whip to the ground while uttering a command word. The whip instantly changes into a Medium-sized mimic in the form of a treasure chest for 1 hour. The mimic is friendly to you and your companions. In combat, it shares your your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. You can use a bonus action to revert the mimic to its whip form. Any damage, conditions, or other effects are not removed when the mimic transforms back into a whip. The mimic regains all of its hit points when you finish a long rest. If the mimic dies, it reverts to its whip form and can’t be used again in this way until you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. The duration of Mimic Ally increases to 2 hours and the mimic has 85 hit points.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (whip)
- Properties: Finesse, Reach
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

