# Giantsmight

**description**: Whosoever believes themselves worthy to walk among Giants, take upon this weapon and prove your spirit. Legend This club was created when meteor shards fatally penetrated a giant’s femur during an honorable duel between the halfling mage Orlanna Starfall and Halix of Stormwrath. Giantsmight emboldens its owner with Halix’s strength, provided the owner exemplifies the courage of the mage’s spirit. Location Giantsmight typically resides atop the Stormwrath Peaks, lost after an arrogant noble tried to drive the giants from their home. Rather than keep the weapon, the giants left it as a show of their overwhelming superiority, daring anyone to take ownership. The owner may take the weapon with them wherever they please, but must return to the Stormwrath Peaks once a year to challenge a giant in a duel. If the wielder refuses to face the giants, the club returns to the Stormwrath Peaks, magically teleporting away from the attuned creature. Many have wielded the weapon, but each time they perish, the weapon soon reappears atop the peaks. Encounter Ideas Peace Brokers. The adventurers have been hired to broker peace between the Giants of Stormwrath and the kingdom below. They must prove themselves worthy to negotiate with the Stormwrath Court. Please, Please. The adventurers meet a terrified warrior in the woods, beseeching them to take his weapon and fulfill the compelled agreement for him. Fallen Ranger. The adventurers witness a ranger fall in combat against an owlbear and have only a moment to grab the weapon before it disappears! Progression Giantsmight progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. However, in addition to the required increase in proficiency bonus, to progress from rare to very rare, the attuned creature or their allies must kill a creature at least one size larger than the attuned creature during a combat encounter in which the target has been wounded by Giantsmight . The weapon progresses from very rare to legendary after a creature at least two sizes larger than the wielder dies in the same manner. Statistics Weapon (Club), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Roll20 Note: The links below lead to the club version of this weapon, but for full automation, please add both the club and greatclub version to your character sheet! Common . As a bonus action, the club turns into a greatclub, or from a greatclub into a club. In addition, you can read, write, and speak Giant. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this magic weapon. Knock ‘Em Down! When you score a critical hit against a creature larger than you with this weapon, the creature must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Rare . When you hit a creature larger than you with this weapon, the creature takes an extra 1d6 bludgeoning damage. Very Rare . While wielding this weapon, your Strength score becomes 20 (+5), and the save DC for Knock ‘Em Down! increases to 17. Legendary . Giant-Size! As a bonus action, you become Huge for 2 hours. For the duration, you gain temporary hit points equal to three times your character level and the reach of your melee attacks increases by 5 feet. Additionally, while transformed, properties of this weapon which only affected creatures larger than you now affect creatures of any size. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (club)
- Properties: Light
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

