# Golden Griffon Shield (Level 5)

**description**: This kite shield has the image of a bronze griffon etched and embossed on its surface. The griffon glows with a soft, amber light. Bronwyn was a ranger renowned for his pure heart, generous nature, and courageous defense of the natural world. His closest companion was his mount, a highly intelligent and fiercely loyal griffon with golden feathers. One fateful autumn day, wyverns attacked Bronwyn and his griffon while the pair flew high above a barren plain. During the battle, Bronwyn’s griffon suffered several poisonous stings. Weakened, the animal was unable to remain aloft. Bronwyn and the griffon plummeted to the rocky ground far below. In a final, heroic act, the griffon twisted in midair so its body took the brunt of the impact. Although badly injured, Bronwyn survived the fall. His brave griffon did not. Wracked with grief and guilt, the ranger plucked a single golden feather from the dead griffon then buried his loyal mount there among the rocks where it died. Bronwyn carried that golden feather with him for many months. Eventually, he had a magical shield crafted to honor his fallen friend. Bronwyn watched as the expert craftsman’s hammer fell repeatedly on the new shield, giving it shape and form. Just as the last hammer blow fell, Brownwyn tossed the feather onto the shield. The plumage vanished as the craftsman’s hammer struck, as if the golden feather had somehow fused with the metal. At that moment, the sleek image of a griffon appeared on the shield’s surface, glowing with a soft, amber light. Bronwyn named the shield Golden Griffon . It was this shield he bore when he hunted and killed the wyverns that had slain his companion. Unfortunately, the fate of the shield is not known today. Armor (shield), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wielding this shield, you can use an action to speak a command word, causing light to shine from the griffon on the shield. The shield sheds bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. The light lasts until you use a bonus action to speak the command word again. Griffon Rider (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wielding or holding this shield. 5th level. When you fall, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. In addition, you are immune to the poisoned condition and have immunity to poison damage. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. In addition, you can use an action to transform the shield into a gold-feathered griffon for up to 3 hours. The griffon is friendly to you and your companions. It understands your languages and obeys your spoken commands. If you issue no commands, the griffon defends itself but takes no other actions. At the end of the duration, it transforms back into the golden griffon shield . It transforms back into the shield early if it drops to 0 hit points or if you use an action to speak the command word while touching it. Once used, this property can’t be used again until the next dawn. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. In addition, you can use an action to call forth ghostly griffons to protect you. They fly around you to a distance of 15 feet for up to 10 minutes. You can designate any number of creatures you can see to be unaffected by these ghostly griffons. An affected creature’s speed is halved in the area, and when the creature enters the area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier). On a failed save, the creature takes 6d8 radiant damage. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage. You can’t summon these ghostly griffons again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Shield
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

