# Golden Rise Cookie Tin

**description**: Golden Rise Cookie Tin Wondrous item, very rare This round, metallic tin of cookies displays an image of the holder’s current surroundings, including anyone next to them, on its lid. Inside the container are 30 shortbread cookies nestled within fluted paper wrappers. There are six different types of cookie, each with a different symbol: King, Queen, Knight, Bishop, Rook, and Pawn. As an action on your turn, you can pull a cookie from the tin and eat it. Roll 1d8 to determine what type of cookie is pulled from the tin. On a 1, the cookie is transformed in your hand and you receive sewing supplies, such as a needle or bobbin. On an 8, if you eat the cookie, you regain 2d4 hit points, but no other effect occurs. When consumed, each cookie generates a different effect. If the cookie has not been eaten by the beginning of your next turn, it crumbles into dust. 2 - King. You summon a ghostly apparition of a crowned warrior that appears in an empty space within 10 feet of you. At the beginning of your next turn, the warrior summons a bundle of phantom swords and casts them at an enemy of yours that they can see up to 40 feet away. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 3d12 piercing damage. The warrior disappears after casting its swords. 3 - Queen. You summon a ghostly apparition of a veiled woman holding an ornate cup that appears in an empty space within 10 feet of you. While within 30 feet of the apparition, you and allies of your choice that you can see can use an action to regain 2d8 hit points. You also gain +2 to attack rolls and advantage on Charisma ability checks while the apparition remains. The apparition disappears after one minute or when its healing ability has been used three times. 4 - Knight. You summon a ghostly apparition holding a spear that appears in an empty space within 10 feet of you and disappears after 1 minute. For the duration, you and up to three creatures you can touch are filled with a burning energy and gain resistance to fire damage and deal an extra 1d4 fire damage on your melee weapon attacks. 5 - Bishop. You summon a ghostly apparition of a priest that appears in an empty space within 10 feet of you. You and each of your allies that you can see within 60 feet regain 1d10 hit points and at the beginning of your next turn undead within 30 feet of the apparition must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be turned as if by an 11th level cleric, with undead of CR 2 or lower being immediately destroyed if they fail this save. Before disappearing at the end of your next turn, the apparition will tell you the damage vulnerabilities of any undead or fiends you can see. 6 - Rook. You summon a ghostly fortress which surrounds you. For the duration, a spectral wall forms to protect you. The wall appears as translucent stone that is 5 feet thick, and can be a maximum of 15 feet high and up to 30 feet in length. It has 60 hit points and AC 15. The wall can either be a straight line, part of which must be no more than 5 feet from you, or a ring with you on the interior. The wall lasts for one minute or until it is destroyed. 7 - Pawn. You summon a ghostly apparition of an eager youth that appears in an empty space within 10 feet of you. The apparition functions as an unseen servant that lasts for 1 minute or until it is destroyed. If you give the apparition a command while in combat, there is a 50% chance that it will move 15 feet in a random direction instead of following your command. No more than two cookies can be consumed in one day. If a third cookie is eaten, you must make a DC18 Constitution saving throw. On a success, the cookie tin seals itself closed for one day, becoming unusable. On a failed save, you feel ill and are incapacitated until the end of your next turn and the tin’s contents are completely replaced with sewing supplies for 1d4 days. Once a total of 30 cookies are removed from the tin, the tin becomes nonmagical.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: very rare

**publisher**: Viscount Games

**book**: Drizzts Travelogue of Everything

