# Golden Boy

**description**: WARNING Golden Boy is arguably the foulest thing you will read about in this entire work. This hag weird makes use of a dead humanoid fetus and hints at herbally induced abortions. If this subject will create any difficulties for you or your players please skip this item. Golden boys are an occult item pulled from popular culture that you can learn more about if you choose to. Wondrous item, Weird, Legendary Everything about this item is evil and there are many rumors surrounding the creation of a golden boy. Peasants, nobles, and herbalists believe a hag will make one of these if a pregnant woman asks her for help with, “not being with child anymore.” A clever DM can determine the how based on what their campaign and players can handle. A golden boy, once made by a hag, is a mummified fetus that has been encased in gold and usually attached to a pedestal. These foul items can be used by the hag in two ways. She can place it within half a mile of her lair to function as a sort of focus for scrying, or she can place it in her lair as a sort of trap. The hag will decide which version the golden boy is while making it and will be unable to change it. Though called a golden boy, the gender of the fetus is irrelevant for this purpose. Scrying Focus. If used as a scrying focus then the hag will either give it to a nearby powerful evil creature as tribute or a gift for their treasure hoard or place it in a hidden place near civilization. If the hag wants the intended target to be able to communicate with her then, once per day, the golden boy can be used to cast sending , with a range of half a mile and only if the target is the hag that made the golden boy. Otherwise the golden boy allows her to extend any of her remote viewing spells like arcane eye to within 30 feet of the golden boy. If the hag casts scrying , then she can choose to view anything within 300 feet of the golden boy. The golden boy must not be covered or hidden for this to work. Trap. If placed as a trap, then the golden boy must not be covered or hidden in any way. Once the hag places a golden boy it will not be active unless it has not been disturbed for a week. Once activated as a trap the golden boy functions as a sentinel with passive Perception 15, darkvision 120 ft., and truesight 10 ft. If it perceives anything other than the hag within those ranges it will let out a terrible scream. This scream affects all within 120 feet of the golden boy, who are not deaf, as if a spell DC 15 wail of the banshee (see spells) spell was cast. After the golden boy lets out a wail, then it will immediately disintegrate. Because of this a hag will only use a golden boy to guard something very important, in a place that her minions won’t accidentally set it off. There are rumors that if the hag that created a golden boy is slain, and the item soaked in her blood that it can turn into a beneficial hob or guardian spirit for the family line that it was taken from.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Legendary

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

