# Grasshopper Staff

**description**: The best way to avoid the eagle’s claw is to be somewhere else. Legend The Grasshopper Staff was carved by the Verdant Way ascetic Qhivdes following a communion with the spirits of his shrine. Legend says they warned that evil would soon attack and imparted the secrets of the staff’s construction. While the shrine would later be burned by marauding goblins, Qhivdes was able to use the staff to defend the monks within and all escaped alive. Location The staff was passed from master to student for a century until it was lost by an acolyte named Vorlo while attempting to drive out a nest of ankhegs . It has not been seen for decades and the monks assume it destroyed by the monstrosities’ acid. Encounter Ideas Exterminator Needed. The party is called upon by farmers to remove the threat that ankhegs have posed to their livelihood for decades. Nest of Pests. While traveling near the rebuilt Shrine of the Verdant Way, the road collapses beneath the adventurers, dropping them into the middle of a nest of ankhegs . Bulette Time. The characters learn about the disappearance of Vorlo from an old book containing a map of the area surrounding the shrine. Fortunately, the ankhegs have since been hunted to extinction in the region. Sadly, that is due to a bulette that moved into their territory. Progression The Grasshopper Staff progresses each time the creature who is attuned to it defeats a powerful insectoid Beast or Monstrosity. When the attuned wielder deals damage to such a creature with an attack using the Grasshopper Staff and the creature is reduced to 0 hit points in the same encounter, the staff progresses. To progress to rare, the creature must be CR 8 or greater, CR 13 or greater for very rare, and CR 18 for legendary. The staff cannot progress more than once per week. Statistics Weapon (Quarterstaff), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Rubbing the grasshopper causes the staff to emit a soft, buzzing sound. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. While attuned to it, your walking speed is increased by 5 feet. Rare . The bonus to your walking speed increases to 10 feet. Jump! The staff has 6 charges. As a bonus action, you can expend 1 charge to cast the jump spell on yourself. The staff regains 1d4 + 2 expended charges when you finish a long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Speed Boost. At the start of each of your turns, you can convert the staff’s power into speed. You reduce the staff’s to hit and damage modifier by 1, 2, or 3, and your walking speed and jump distance are both increased by a number of feet equal to the amount reduced x 5 until the start of your next turn. You must be holding the staff to gain the bonus to speed and jump distance. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3, its total number of charges increases to 8, and it now regains 1d6 + 2 expended charges when you finish a long rest. In addition, you can use a bonus action to expend 2 charges to cast misty step .

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (quarterstaff)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

