# Grimoire of Pestilence: Codex Mortabula

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) This grimoire contains horribly illustrated pages detailing all manner of diseases. The strange ichor occasionally dripping from the tome is a spiritual reflection of the grim information lurking within. The owner of the Codex Mortabula gradually gains a sallow, pallid, or jaundiced complexion. Some who have carried the tome have become obsessed with cleanliness and preventing illness while others delight in spreading contagion. If attuned to it, you can use the grimoire as a spellcasting focus, and it functions as a spellbook for you. The spells listed below count as spells for your spellcasting class. Moreover, you are immune to disease and have advantage on Intelligence and Wisdom checks made to recall information about or treat diseases. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: detect poison and disease 2nd level: contagious healing*, protection from poison 3rd level: stinking cloud 4th level: festering fever* 5th level: contagion 6th level: harm 7th level: mass contagious healing* 8th level: power word plague* An Unbalance of Humors (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. 5th level. As a reaction when you deal poison or necrotic damage, you can give the target a disease. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be infected by your choice of disease from the list below for 1 minute. A creature can only be under the effect of one such disease at a time. At the beginning of each of its turns, a diseased creature can repeat the Constitution saving throw, ending the disease on a success. Once a creature has been subjected to this feature or succeeds on a saving throw against it, it is immune to this feature for 24 hours. You can use the following diseases: Bonebreak Fever. The creature takes 2d6 poison damage at the beginning of each of its turns. Chalkstones. The creature’s movement speed is reduced by half. Shaking Tremors. The creature has disadvantage on attack rolls and Dexterity saving throws. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest. 9th level. You have resistance to poison damage, and you can add the options described in the contagion spell to your list of diseases known. In addition, you can use the following new diseases: Black Spills. If the creature takes any damage, it takes an extra 2d10 damage of the same type at the start of its next turn. If it take damage from more than one source, only the first is copied. Delirious Porting. At the beginning of each of its turns, the creature magically teleports to a random, unoccupied space within 60 feet of its previous position. Horrors. The creature hallucinates, believing its allies are horrible monsters, and must attack its nearest ally. 13th level. You are immune to poison. Moreover, when an attack or spell subjects you to poison damage, you regain hit points equal to the poison damage. In addition, you can use the following new diseases: Firespouts. At the beginning of each of its turns, the creature uncontrollably spits fire at the nearest creature, using your spell attack modifier, and on a hit, the target takes 2d10 fire damage. Jester’s Gasp. The creature is incapacitated with mad laughter. If it takes damage from any source, it gains advantage on its Constitution saving throw to remove this disease. Stonelegs. The creature is restrained and begins to turn to stone from the feet upward. If it fails three consecutive Constitution saving throws to end the disease, it is petrified for an hour. 17th level. Your Constitution score increases to 20. If your Constitution score is already 20, your Strength or Dexterity (your choice) increases by 2, to a maximum of 20. In addition, you can use the following new diseases: Beast’s Curse. Also called zoanthropalitis, this disease causes the creature to magically transform into a beast (CR 1/8 or less) of equal size, as if under the effect of a polymorph spell. At the beginning of each of its turns, the target transforms into the beast, and at the end of each of its turns, it transforms back to its normal form. Spellbuncles. The creature’s mouth and limbs erupt in boils. It can’t speak or cast spells with verbal or somatic components. The creature can still hold objects, just not make intricate gestures. Quirks of the Codex Mortabula. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Codex Mortabula table. Quirks of the Codex Mortabula d8 Result 1 You possess a deep hatred of mice and other forms of vermin. 2 You refuse to eat food or drink liquids that are prepared out of your sight. 3 You have trouble connecting to people and prefer to think of them as subjects. 4 You are haunted by smudges, stains, or messes of any kind. 5 You do everything you can to avoid large crowds or sharing confined spaces with other creatures. 6 You tend to use overly complicated clinical jargon to explain basic concepts. 7 You sometimes catch yourself washing your hands until they are painfully raw. 8 You experience great anxiety unless you have a full medical kit on your person.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

