# Grimoire of the Fey: The Perennial Florilegium

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) This tome is a florilegium (or book of flowers), detailing all manner of flowers found on the plane, including beautiful illustrations in vibrant colors. The living flowers on its cover are not easily plucked but can be removed with effort. A plucked flower crumbles to dust after 1 minute. On the next dawn, provided the grimoire is set upon natural soil the night before, new blossoms rapidly grow to replace any plucked flowers. The patterns on the cover adjust to new configurations each time a flower is removed. The owner of the Florilegium gradually becomes fixated on finding flowers and cross-referencing the specimens with the knowledge in the book. If attuned to it, you can use the grimoire as a spellcasting focus, and it functions as a spellbook for you. The spells listed below count as spells for your spellcasting class. Moreover, you have advantage on Intelligence checks made to interact with or recall information concerning plant and fey creatures. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: entangle, florafetter* 2nd level: radiant rosette*, spike growth 3rd level: plant growth 4th level: blight 5th level: insect plague 6th level: wall of thorns 7th level: oculus blossoms* 8th level: glibness 9th level: chaotic flowerfall* Wellspring of the Garden (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. Saving throws for its features equal your spellcasting DC. 5th level. You learn the spell speak with plants and can cast it once without expending a spell slot. You regain the ability to cast it in this way when you finish a long rest. In addition, as an action, you create a number of companion flowers up to your proficiency bonus. A companion flower is a tall, sunflower-like blossom with white and yellow petals. It is a stationary object with AC 15 and 30 hit points. Each flower appears in an unoccupied space you can see within 60 feet of you and lasts for 1 minute. The flower has the following benefits, as well as others gained at higher levels: Curative Pollen. Whenever a friendly creature (or you) moves into a space within 5 feet of the flower for the first time on its turn or starts its turn there, it heals 2d6 hit points by breathing in the pollen (no action required). When the flowers (as a group) have healed a total of 30 hit points, they stop producing pollen. Once you use this feature, you must finish a long rest before you can use it again. 9th level. Your Curative Pollen can now heal up to 60 hit points. In addition, your flowers gain the following new benefit: Carnivorous Snap. Each flower’s petals merge into a fanged mouth. Any creature hostile to you that moves to a space within 10 feet of a flower for the first time on its turn must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 20 radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. The flowers (as a group) stop attacking after they deal a combined total of 60 damage. 13th level. Your Curative Pollen can now heal up to 70 hit points, and the Carnivorous Snap can deal a total of 70 damage. In addition, you can summon your flowers twice before resting, and your flowers gain the following new benefit: Burning Fireflies. A flame-shrouded firefly hovers around each of your flowers. As a bonus action, you can mentally command one of your flowers to send its burning firefly streaking toward one creature or object within 60 feet of it. When you do, make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 4d12 radiant damage. Whether you hit or miss, the firefly is expended. 17th level. Your Curative Pollen can now heal up to 80 hit points, and the Carnivorous Snap can deal a total of 80 damage. In addition, your flowers gain the following new benefit: Razorpetal Barrage. Some petals of your flowers are wreathed in shimmering energy and become impossibly sharp. As a bonus action, you can mentally command your flowers to send petals hurtling at a point within 120 feet of it. Each creature in a 40-foot-radius of that point must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d12 force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Your flowers have enough petals for one use of Razorpetal Barrage. Quirks of the Perennial Florilegium. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Perennial Florilegium table. Quirks of the Perennial Florilegium d8 Result 1 I talk to flowers as if they are close friends. 2 My mood changes with the weather and seasons. 3 I can’t resist making bargains or pacts. 4 It amuses me to make plant and flower puns. 5 I always see pixies and other fey out of the corner of my eye. 6 Cold iron sometimes makes me itch. 7 I gather samples of seeds and flora wherever I go. 8 From time to time, I’m possessed with an overwhelming need to make everyone stop and smell the flowers.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

