# Grimoire of Dreams: Bedfellow

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) Bedfellow contains a mix of firsthand retellings of dreams, peculiar stories, haunting lullabies, and meditations on the symbolism of dreams. Any creature—other than the book’s owner—who attempts to read its contents quickly finds themselves lulled into a deep sleep full of incredibly vivid dreams. While holding the book, you can use it as a spellcasting focus for your spells, and it functions as a spellbook for you. Additionally, if you use the book as a pillow, you can reduce your exhaustion by two instead of one when you complete a long rest. Also, any creature sleeping on Bedfellow can’t be affected by magically induced nightmares or targeted by spells like dream while they remain asleep—unless they choose to be affected by them. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: oneiromancy*, sleep 2nd level: darkness, detect thoughts 3rd level: dream canopy*, major image 4th level: shared nightmare* 5th level: dream, seeming 6th level: phantasm* 7th level: mirage arcane Bedfellow (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. 5th level. When you fail an ability check, you can instead choose to succeed as you recall a dream in which you succeeded at a similar task. Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you complete a long rest. 9th level. As an action, you can cause a Medium or smaller creature or object to appear in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. The creature or object appears exactly how it appeared in your imagination before you caused it to appear, including the way it looks, feels, smells, sounds, and tastes. A creature created in this way can speak, move, and perform other simple tasks you imagine it could do, but it can’t think for itself, cast spells, or attack. It acts on your turn in combat, and if it must make a roll of any kind, it uses your statistics. If the creature takes any damage, or suffers an effect that would harm a normal creature of its kind, it instantly disappears. An object created in this way can perform all the functions it normally could, but if it is wielded in a way that would cause a normal object to deal damage, it takes any damage, or it suffers any effect that would break or destroy a normal object of its kind, it instantly disappears. A creature or object created by this spell lasts for 1 hour, until it is forced to disappear, or until you choose to dismiss it (no action required). If you ever move more than 60 feet away from the creature or object, it instantly disappears. Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you complete a short or long rest. 13th level. You are immune to psychic damage and have advantage on saving throws to resist effects that would cause you to become charmed or frightened. 17th level. You automatically detect visual illusions (and succeed on saving throws against them) within 60 feet of you, and you can perceive the original form of a shapechanger or creature that is transformed by magic within that range. Additionally, once per long rest, you can cast one of the spells contained in Bedfellow without expending a spell slot. Quirks of Bedfellow. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of Bedfellow table. Quirks of Bedfellow d8 Result 1 You tend to yawn at inappropriate times. 2 You are prone to daydreaming. 3 You can’t resist an opportunity to have your fortune told. 4 You see omens and secret meanings everywhere. 5 You become extremely irritable if you don’t get at least 8 hours of sleep each night. 6 You tend to splurge on nice blankets, herbal teas, expensive camping gear, and anything else that could enhance your sleeping environment. 7 You can’t stop yourself from talking about your dreams—even when you know it bores people. 8 You become easily entranced by music and stories that spark your imagination.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

