# Grim Verses

**description**: Wondrous item, artifact (requires attunement) This loathsome tome predates the worship of the world’s dark gods and is rumored to originate from undeath-corrupted areas of the Shadow Realm. The massive book is bound in black leather made from the tenebrous skin of a dragon who was slain in the Shadow Realm. A strange sigil resembling a three-pronged claw adorns its cover, smoldering with an ultraviolet gleam as if it was burned directly onto the surface of the dark, rubbery hide. The gray sheets of its durable pages are crafted from a mineral composite of unknown origin, and the script written upon them pulses with an eerie, opalescent glow. The creature attuned to this book must spend 66 hours reading and studying it to digest its contents and reap its benefits. Afterwards, the creature can modify the book’s contents, as long as those modifications advance evil and expand the lore already contained within. Whenever a non-evil creature attunes to the Grim Verses, that creature must make a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the creature’s alignment changes to chaotic evil. The Grim Verses remains with you only as long as you strive to spread the curse of undeath. If you fail to animate or create new undead creatures within the span of 19 days, or if you willingly perform a good act, an undead entity attempts to claim the book for its own intentions. If you die while attuned to the book, an aberrant or undead entity of great evil devours your soul. Random Properties. The Grim Verses has the following random properties: 2 minor beneficial properties 1 major beneficial property 2 minor detrimental properties 1 major detrimental property Adjusted Ability Scores. After you spend the requisite amount of time reading and studying the book, your Intelligence score increases by 1, to a maximum of 24, and your Charisma score decreases by 1, to a minimum of 3. This adjustment occurs only once. Sepulchral Formulae. The Grim Verses contains a host of blasphemous spells and unholy rites, including all spells with the “shadow” qualifier next to their schools of magic in the Midgard Heroes Handbook or Deep Magic for 5th Edition. In addition, the book contains the animate dead and create undead spells. If your campaign isn’t set in Midgard or using the spells from Midgard, the book is filled with spells of the GM’s choice that relate to darkness, evil, and undeath. Mark of the Grave. After you spend the requisite amount of time reading and studying the book, you acquire a physical disfigurement as a horrid sign of your devotion to undeath. Your eyes might turn milky white, your skin might become abnormally pale or semi-translucent, your blood might flow black, or you might gain some other horrible feature of the GM’s choice. While bearing this mark, you have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks when interacting with undead creatures and Charisma (Intimidation) checks when interacting with creatures that aren’t undead or constructs. Create Undead. While you are attuned to the book and holding it, you can use an action to cast the create undead spell. Once used, this property of the book can’t be used again until the next dusk. Ghastly Lore. If you spend 10 minutes referencing this book while researching the undead, the Realm Beyond, or planes of undeath or shadow, you double your proficiency bonus on Arcana, History, and Religion checks to recall lore about such subjects for the next 24 hours. If you don’t have proficiency in these skills, you instead gain proficiency in them for the next 24 hours, but you are proficient only when recalling information about the subjects of your research. This research can be done during a short rest. Destroying the Book. The Grim Verses allows pages to be torn from it, requiring a successful DC 10 Strength check, but any undead lore contained on those pages finds its way back into the book eventually, usually when a new author adds pages to the tome. As long as the Shadow Realm exists, the Grim Verses can never be completely destroyed. However, soaking the book in the virulent ichor of a dead god of evil, death, or shadow bleaches all writing and imagery from its pages and renders the book powerless for 666 years. If the Shadow Realm is destroyed or its connection to Midgard is permanently severed, the book is engulfed in opalescent flames and is forever destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: artifact (requires attunement)

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Empire of the Ghouls

