# Grimoire of Saint Ovila: An Accountability of Honor

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) This book contains axioms about the twelve virtues of honor, along with handwritten notes discussing each entry. Though there only appear to be two dozen or so pages, the tome actually has an infinite number. The owner of Accountability of Honor gradually becomes very reluctant to lie, intolerant of lies told by others, and they behave under a strict moral code. If attuned to it, you can use the grimoire as a spellcasting focus, and it functions as a spellbook for you. The spells listed below count as spells for your spellcasting class. Moreover, while this tome is in your possession, you have proficiency in Wisdom (Insight), and when you hold it, you have advantage on skill checks to detect lies. Paladins. Accountability of Honor holds great affinity for holy warriors. If you have at least two levels of paladin and you attune to this tome, you gain an additional use of your Divine Smite feature. This single use functions as a 1st-level spell slot but does not expend one of your actual spell slots. You regain any expended uses of this benefit when you finish a long rest. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: aegis of honor*, compel mercy*, heroism 2nd level: palliative censure*, spiritual weapon, warding bond 3rd level: chaotic contrition*, revivify 4th level: guardian of faith 5th level: field of retribution* 6th level: kindness of angels* 7th level: heaven’s spear* The Path of Honor (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. 5th level. On your turn, you can cast a spell inscribed in this tome using a spell slot of an appropriate level without needing to prepare the spell ahead of time. 9th level. When a creature you can see casts a spell that targets a single creature (besides you), you can use your reaction to counter the spell. If the spell is of 3rd level or lower, the spell fails and has no effect as it is absorbed into the grimoire. On your next turn, you can cast the same spell using a spell slot of an appropriate level. At the end of your next turn, the spell vanishes from your tome. If the spell is 4th level or higher, you can sacrifice a spell slot of the same level to counter the spell, but it is not absorbed by the grimoire. 13th level. Your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score (your choice) increases by 2, to a maximum of 20. In addition, you are immune to being frightened. 17th level. You can use a bonus action to embody the divine grace of the celestial realms. For 1 hour, you have advantage on saving throws against the spells and effects of fiends and undead. In addition, for the duration, you can expend a spell slot to heal your companions. As an action, each creature you choose within 15 feet of you regains 1d6 hit points for every level of spell slot you expend. Once used, this property can’t be used again until the next dawn. Quirks of the Accountability of Honor. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Accountability of Honor table. Quirks of the Accountability of Honor d8 Result 1 I can’t control my temper when I see someone acting with dishonor. 2 I will bring justice down upon those who prey on the weak and defenseless. 3 I will never fail to face my fears. 4 I can’t willingly tell a falsehood or cheat. 5 I will defend those in need without concern for myself. 6 I will bring compassion to the needy and shield them from the wicked. 7 I shall never let the inglorious and dishonorable stand unchallenged. 8 I will strike down evil without mercy.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

