# Grimoire of Shadow: Ars Umbra

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) The glowing outline of the phases of the moon on the cover of Ars Umbra are formed from incredibly small crystal mosaics inlaid in the leather. Opening the cover reveals the pages of a beautifully calligraphed lunar calendar, charting the cycle of the phases of the moon (or moons) in great detail along with other relevant astronomical notations. The enchantments in the grimoire adjust the text to reflect the lunar cycle for the current plane or planet. The owner of Ars Umbra gradually comes to venerate the moon as a deity and begins to prefer darkness and shadow rather than direct sunlight. Some owners even become nocturnal. If attuned to it, you can use the grimoire as a spellcasting focus, and it functions as a spellbook for you. The spells listed below count as spells for your spellcasting class. Moreover, you have darkvision to a range of 60 feet, or if you already have darkvision, its range increases by 30 feet. When found, the book’s pages contain the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: cloak of shadow*, lunarbolt waxing* 2nd level: clinging shadow*, darkbolt* 3rd level: obviating shadow*, shadow tendrils* 4th level: shadow monsters* 5th level: shadow passenger* 6th level: stygian eye* 7th level: dying of the light* 8th level: creeping darkness* 9th level: umbral storm* A Shadowed Circumgyration (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. Saving throws for its features equal your spellcasting DC. 5th level. As an action, you can speak the command word and cause the dark moon sigil to rise from the tome’s cover and transform into a two-inch-diameter stone sphere. This moon orbits your head at a distance of 1d3 feet for 1 hour. The moon moves with you and does not interfere with your actions. Once you summon forth the dark moon, you must finish a short or long rest before you can summon it again. While your dark moon orbits your head, you can use the following features: Darkbeam. You can use a bonus action to cause the dark moon to emit a beam of pure shadow at one creature or object within 60 feet of you. When you do so, make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 1d6 necrotic damage plus your proficiency bonus. The damage from your darkbeam increases by 1d6 when you reach 9th level (2d6), 13th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6). Eclipsed Form. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to use the Hide action. 9th level. When you now speak the command word, the waning crescent sigil also rises from the tome’s cover and transforms into a second two-inch-diameter stone sphere. This second moon functions identically to the dark moon and allows you to use the following features: Hungry Moon. As a reaction when you take necrotic or radiant damage, you can absorb some of the energy. You gain resistance to the triggering damage type until the start of your next turn. In addition, when you hit with an attack for the first time on your next turn, the target takes an extra 1d12 damage of the triggering type. Tenebrous Aura. You gain resistance to necrotic damage. 13th level. When you now speak the command word, the waxing gibbous sigil also rises from the tome’s cover and transforms into a third two-inch-diameter stone sphere. This third moon functions identically to the dark moon and allows you to use the following features: Gloaming Glide. Your feet no longer touch the ground. Instead, a thin layer of shadow cushions your steps and allows you to glide an inch above the flat surface of any solid ground or liquid. While you are within 1 inch of any appropriate surface, you move and act as if you were standing on solid ground. You also no longer trigger traps that rely on weight or touch. When you take the Dash action, you can move vertically as part of your movement. Voidfield. As an action, your waxing gibbous moon creates a circular shadow in a number of 5-foot cubes equal to your proficiency bonus in unoccupied spaces you can see within 120 feet. The shadow cubes last for 1 minute. During this time, when you stand in one of these areas, you can use your bonus action to teleport to any other of the shadow cubes. Once you use this feature, it does not function again until you next summon the moons from the cover of the grimoire. 17th level. When you now speak the command word, the full moon sigil also rises from the tome’s cover and transforms into a fourth two-inch-diameter stone sphere. This fourth moon functions identically to the dark moon and allows you to use the following feature: Detonating Shadows. As an action, you can choose a number of creatures you can see within 90 feet to make Dexterity saving throws as their shadows wrap around them and explode. On a failed save, a creature takes 10d6 necrotic damage, 10d6 radiant damage, and 5d6 fire damage, and on a successful one, a creature takes half as much damage. Once you use this feature, it does not function again until you next summon the moons from the cover of the grimoire. Quirks of the Ars Umbra. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Ars Umbra table. Quirks of the Ars Umbra d8 Result 1 I am a glass half-empty sort of person. 2 I see omens and prophesies in every shadow. 3 I have little rituals I perform during each phase of the moon. 4 There is always time to point out the worst-case scenario. 5 Sometimes I think I might be allergic to the sunlight. 6 I make sure to always shade my face from the sun. 7 I prefer to operate at night or in darkness. 8 I regularly have dreams where the moon whispers secrets to me. 

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

