# Grimoire of Portals: Ostium Infinitum

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) The Ostium Infinitum is a dissertation on the nature of space, filled with arcane calculations necessary for navigating it via magical means. Those tenacious enough to master the locks that protect the grimoire’s contents are rewarded with revolutionary insight into the mechanical forces that govern the universe and practical guidance for manipulating those forces in accordance with your will. While holding the book, you can use it as a spellcasting focus for your spells and it functions as a spellbook for you. Additionally, you have advantage on any checks made to open locks or other closure mechanisms of magical or mundane make. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: alarm, sanctuary 2nd level: arcane lock, knock 3rd level: dimensional shove* 4th level: rift* 5th level: teleportation circle 6th level: dimensional rending* 7th level: nexus* Ostium Infinitum (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. 5th level. Whenever you take damage, you can use your reaction to teleport to an unoccupied space within 30 feet. Moving in this way does not provoke attacks of opportunity. You can use this feature a number of times per long rest equal to your proficiency bonus. 9th level. As a bonus action, you can use the Ostium Infinitum to create a portal. Choose two points you can see within 60 feet of you: an invisible and intangible gateway appears at each point. A Large or smaller creature who steps on a space with a gate can choose to remain in the same space or use their movement to step onto any of the squares adjacent to the other gate. Stepping through a gate does not provoke attacks of opportunity. The portals remain open for 1 minute or until you choose to close them (no action required). Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you complete a short or long rest. 13th level. Your speed increases by 10 feet, and you can no longer be moved against your will. Attempts to shove or push you automatically fail. Spells or magical effects, like banishment or maze, that would force you out of the Material Plane have no effect on you unless you wish it. 17th level. As an action, you can command the Ostium Infinitum to teleport you anywhere in the multiverse. The destination must be known to you—a place you have personally visited or thoroughly studied—and it must be a place that physically exists, though it can be located on any plane of existence. If the destination you select does not meet these conditions, the attempt fails. Once this feature is used, you can’t use it again until you complete a long rest. Quirks of the Ostium Infinitum. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Ostium Infinitum table. Quirks of the Ostium Infinitum d8 Result 1 You are fascinated by keys and feel compelled to collect them. 2 You are plagued by sudden bursts of anxiety, questioning whether or not you forgot to lock something important. 3 Whenever you see a locked door or container, you are seized by a burning desire to open it—just to prove you can. 4 You feel calmest when tinkering with machinery or other mechanical devices. 5 You can’t feel comfortable in a new space until you’ve counted every door, window, or other means of escape. 6 You experience the urge to shut out others when upset and lock yourself away when things become too intense. 7 You never feel perfectly content where you are and have a tendency to wander off. 8 You are terrified of being trapped, rendered immobile, or otherwise forced into a situation that impairs your freedom in any way.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

