# Grimoire of Temporal Doom: The Grim Enchiridion

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) This book seems to contain nothing but blank pages. To the one attuned to it, however, the pages contain a complete history of the owner. This account is written in a dry, matter-of-fact narrative with new entries magically appearing even as the owner reads them. The owner of the Enchiridion gradually becomes obsessive about punctuality and keeping track of the passage of time. If attuned to it, you can use the grimoire as a spellcasting focus, and it functions as a spellbook for you. The spells listed below count as spells for your spellcasting class. Moreover, while this tome is in your possession, you are immune to spells and effects that magically age you, and when you read it, you have advantage on any check to recall a fact, action, or event you heard or performed in your past. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: doom of poor fortune* 2nd level: augury 3rd level: damage echo*, haste, slow 4th level: divination 5th level: doom of antiquity* 6th level: doom of abeyant time* 7th level: doom of summer years* 8th level: frailform* 9th level: foresight, time stop Thief of Time (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. Saving throws for its features equal your spellcasting DC. 5th level. You double your proficiency bonus on Intelligence (Arcana) checks involving the nature of time. Moreover, as a reaction when combat begins, you can choose for one creature you can see to make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target exchanges its initiative result with another creature of your choice. When you reach 10th level, you can target up to two creatures with this feature, and at 15th level, you can target up to three creatures. 9th level. When you hit with an attack that targets only one creature, you can choose to deal no damage. If you do so, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be unable to take a bonus action, action, or reaction (your choice) on its next turn. Before the end of your next turn, you can take one bonus action, action, or reaction, whichever the target was unable to take. Once used, this feature shouldn’t be used again until you finish a long rest (see the Temporal Backlash feature). 13th level. Your Intelligence score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20. In addition, you can reach into the future to steal fragments of time from hundreds of your future selves. When you do so, you can use an action to give an additional action to a number of allies within 60 feet equal to your proficiency bonus. Your allies can use this additional action immediately as a reaction or as an action on their turn, their choice. Once used, this feature shouldn’t be used again until you finish a long rest (see the Temporal Backlash feature). 17th level. You are immune to magic that manipulates or freezes time. In addition, when you cast a spell that targets only one creature, you can choose to hold the results of the spell outside of time. You do not need to specify a target for the spell at the time of casting, but casting the spell still requires an action and expends a spell slot. Otherwise, the stored spell has no effect. You can hold up to three spells in this way. You can use an action to expunge all of your stored spells at the same time, adjudicating each spell individually. If you do not use your stored spells after 1 minute, the spells vanish from your mind and are wasted. Once used, this feature shouldn’t be used again until you finish a long rest (see the Temporal Backlash feature). Temporal Backlash. By attuning to this item, you can use some of the powers without risk, but you can also push past the bounds of safety as long as you are willing to accept the consequences. The 9th-level, 13th-level and 17th-level features of this grimoire are regained when you finish a long rest. However, you can choose to use one of these features again after the first time, but you will suffer temporal backlash for doing so. Each time you use one of these features beyond the first time, you reduce your maximum Hit Dice by 2 for 24 hours. For example, if you use the 13th-level feature three times before finishing a long rest, when you finish your next long rest, your maximum Hit Dice is four less than normal. Quirks of the Enchiridion. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Enchiridion table. Quirks of the Enchiridion d8 Result 1 You are plagued by a sense of déjà vu. 2 Usually, you can predict tomorrow’s weather. 3 Outwardly, you don’t seem to age. 4 In quiet moments, you hear a ticking sound that no one else seems to hear. 5 Sometimes, you remember memories of tomorrow. 6 Your dreams of the future occasionally come true. 7 You occasionally see a dark aura around those who are soon to die. 8 From time to time, you relive events from your past in your dreams.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

