# Grinning Skull

**description**: This strange white skull is carved from a single piece of alabaster and is as large as a human head. Strange sigils and magical symbols are etched into the skull’s forehead. One of the first white necromancers, Althaghast, espoused true necromancy—the enlightened understanding of the mysterious connection between life, death, and unlife. His deep and profound understanding of life’s eternal cycle—the necromantic triad—made him a potent healer as well as a powerful spellcaster. Althaghast dwelled in a hilltop tower within a mist-shrouded realm suddenly infested with undead. The people lived in fear, for the undead ranks were inexplicably growing unchecked. At last, Althaghast knew he had to restore the balance. He carved a gleaming skull from solid alabaster, and for many weeks worked his most powerful magic upon it. The white necromancer used his strange skull to great effect, rooting out nests of vampires, eventually dragging the screaming vampire lord into the purifying light of the sun. He defeated a powerful spectre haunting a lonely road, and he even put a terrible lich to rest. When the balance between life, death, and unlife had at last been restored, Althaghast returned to the solitude of his tower. One evening, just after sunset, a beautiful woman came to speak with him. She asked about his magical alabaster skull, which he admitted was secured elsewhere in the tower. It was then that he noticed, for the first time, her deathly pale complexion. And her fangs. Althaghast no longer protects the land. Rumors persist that his grinning skull lies in some forgotten crypt, a trophy for the vampire queen who ended the foolish white necromancer’s life. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a cleric, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard) While holding this skull, you can use an action to speak a command word, causing light to shine from the sigils and symbols etched into the skull. The skull sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. The light lasts until you use a bonus action to speak the command word again. In addition, you can use an action to shrink the skull to the size of a marble for easy transport. None of the skull’s properties function when it is this size, however. You can use a bonus action to return the skull to its normal size. Necromancer’s Boon (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while holding the skull. 5th level. The skull has 5 charges. You can expend 1 of its charges as an action to cast the protection from evil and good (undead only) spell, using your spell save DC and spellcasting ability modifier. The skull regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. In addition, you can use an action to cast the detect evil and good spell from the skull without using any charges, but the spell detects only undead. 9th level. Whenever you deal damage to an undead, it takes an extra 2d6 radiant damage. If the undead has 25 hit points or fewer after taking this damage, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (using your spell save DC) or be destroyed. 13th level. The list of spells you can cast from the skull expands to include: dispel evil and good (undead only, 5 charges). In addition, if you fail a saving throw against a necromancy spell or a harmful effect originating from an undead creature, you can use your reaction to expend 1 of the skull’s charges and turn the failed save into a successful one. 17th level. You can use an action to expend 1 of the skull’s charges to emit a flash of golden light from the skull. Each undead within 30 feet of the skull that are neither good nor evil must make a Constitution saving throw (using your spell save DC), taking 6d6 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Evil undead take 8d6 radiant damage instead of 6d6.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a cleric, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

