# Hat of Many Spells

**description**: Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a Wizard) This pointed hat has the following properties. Spellcasting Focus. While holding the hat, you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells. Any spell you cast using the hat gains a special Somatic component: you must reach into the hat and “pull” the spell out of it. Unknown Spell. While holding the hat, you can try to cast a level 1+ spell you don’t know. The spell must be on the Wizard spell list, it must be of a level you can cast, and it can’t have Material components costing more than 1,000 GP. Once you decide on the spell, you must expend a spell slot of the spell’s level. Then, to determine whether you cast the spell, make an Intelligence (Arcana) check (DC 10 plus the spell’s level). On a successful check, you cast the spell using its normal casting time, and you can’t use this property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest. On a failed check, you fail to cast the spell and a random effect occurs instead, determined by rolling on the following table. Any spell you cast from the hat uses your spell save DC and spell attack bonus. 1d100 Effect 01–50 You cast a random spell determined by rolling 1d10: on a 1, Enlarge/Reduce (enlarge effect); on a 2, Enlarge/Reduce (reduce effect); on a 3, Faerie Fire ; on a 4, Fireball ; on a 5, Gust of Wind ; on a 6, Invisibility (cast on yourself); on a 7, Lightning Bolt ; on an 8, Phantasmal Force ; on a 9, Polymorph ; on a 10, Stinking Cloud . 51–55 You have the Stunned condition until the end of your next turn, believing something awesome just happened. 56–60 A harmless swarm of butterflies fills a 10- foot Cube within 30 feet of yourself. The swarm disperses after 1 minute. 61–65 You pull a nonmagical object out of the hat. Roll 1d4 to determine the object: on a 1, a vial of Acid; on a 2, a flask of Alchemist’s Fire; on a 3, a Crowbar; on a 4, a lit Torch. 66–70 You suffer a bout of “magic sickness” and have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour. 71–75 You have the Petrified condition until the end of your next turn. 76–80 You pull a nonmagical object out of the hat. Roll 1d4 to determine the object: on a 1, a Dagger; on a 2, a Rope with a Grappling Hook tied to one end; on a 3, a bag of Caltrops; on a 4, a gem worth 50 GP. 81–85 A creature appears in an unoccupied space as close to you as possible. The creature isn’t under your control and acts as it normally would, and it disappears after 1 hour or when it drops to 0 Hit Points. Roll 1d4 to determine the creature: on a 1, a Camel ; on a 2, a Constrictor Snake ; on a 3, an Elephant ; on a 4, a Mule . 86–90 A Hostile Swarm of Bats flies out of the hat, occupies your space, and attacks you. 91–95 A vertical, 10-foot-diameter, two-way portal to another plane of existence opens in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of you and remains open until the end of your next turn. The DM determines where it leads. 96–00 You pull a magic item out of the hat. Roll 1d6 to determine the item’s rarity: on a 1–3, Common; on a 4–5, Uncommon; on a 6, Rare. The DM chooses the item, which disappears after 1 hour if it’s not consumed or destroyed before then. Presto creates a lightning bolt using his Hat of Many Spells.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Theme: Arcana
- Subtype: Wondrous Item
- Expansion: 33335
- Item Type: Arcane Spell Focus
- data-List: false
- Item Rarity: No
- filter-Lists: Clothing, Spell Focus, Arcane Focus, Special- Class Requirement
- filter-Charges: No
- data-datarecords: [{"name":"Hat of Many Spells","payload":"{\"type\":\"Item\",\"name\":\"Hat of Many Spells\",\"description\":\"Requires Attunement by a Wizard\\nThis pointed hat has the following properties.\\nSpellcasting Focus. While holding the hat, you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells. Any spell you cast using the hat gains a special Somatic component: you must reach into the hat and “pull” the spell out of it.\\nUnknown Spell. While holding the hat, you can try to cast a level 1+ spell you don't know. The spell must be on the Wizard spell list, it must be of a level you can cast, and it can't have Material components costing more than 1,000 GP. Once you decide on the spell, you must expend a spell slot of the spell's level. Then, to determine whether you cast the spell, make an Intelligence (Arcana) check (DC 10 plus the spell's level). On a successful check, you cast the spell using its normal casting time, and you can't use this property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest. On a failed check, you fail to cast the spell and a random effect occurs instead, determined by rolling on the following table. Any spell you cast from the hat uses your spell save DC and spell attack bonus.\\n1d100 Effect\\n01-50 You cast a random spell determined by rolling 1d10: on a 1, Enlarge/Reduce (enlarge effect); on a 2, Enlarge/Reduce (reduce effect); on a 3, Faerie Fire; on a 4, Fireball; on a 5, Gust of Wind; on a 6, Invisibility (cast on yourself); on a 7, Lightning Bolt; on an 8, Phantasmal Force; on a 9, Polymorph; on a 10, Stinking Cloud.\\n51-55 You have the Stunned condition until the end of your next turn, believing something awesome just happened.\\n56-60 A harmless swarm of butterflies fills a 10- foot Cube within 30 feet of yourself. The swarm disperses after 1 minute.\\n61-65 You pull a nonmagical object out of the hat. Roll 1d4 to determine the object: on a 1, a vial of Acid; on a 2, a flask of Alchemist's Fire; on a 3, a Crowbar; on a 4, a lit Torch.\\n66-70 You suffer a bout of “magic sickness” and have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour.\\n71-75 You have the Petrified condition until the end of your next turn.\\n76-80 You pull a nonmagical object out of the hat. Roll 1d4 to determine the object: on a 1, a Dagger; on a 2, a Rope with a Grappling Hook tied to one end; on a 3, a bag of Caltrops; on a 4, a gem worth 50 GP.\\n81-85 A creature appears in an unoccupied space as close to you as possible. The creature isn't under your control and acts as it normally would, and it disappears after 1 hour or when it drops to 0 Hit Points. Roll 1d4 to determine the creature: on a 1, a Camel; on a 2, a Constrictor Snake; on a 3, an Elephant; on a 4, a Mule.\\n86-90 A Hostile Swarm of Bats flies out of the hat, occupies your space, and attacks you.\\n91-95 A vertical, 10-foot-diameter, two-way portal to another plane of existence opens in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of you and remains open until the end of your next turn. The DM determines where it leads.\\n96-00 You pull a magic item out of the hat. Roll 1d6 to determine the item's rarity: on a 1-3, Common; on a 4-5, Uncommon; on a 6, Rare. The DM chooses the item, which disappears after 1 hour if it's not consumed or destroyed before then.\",\"weight\":\"\",\"properties\":[],\"cost\":\"40,000 GP\",\"rarity\":\"Very Rare\",\"equipData\":{\"equippable\":true}}"},{"name":"Hat of Many Spells Attunement","parent":"Hat of Many Spells","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attunement\",\"requireEquip\":true}"}]
- filter-Attunement: Very Rare
- Name: Hat of Many Spells
- data-description: Requires Attunement by a Wizard
This pointed hat has the following properties.
Spellcasting Focus. While holding the hat, you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells. Any spell you cast using the hat gains a special Somatic component: you must reach into the hat and “pull” the spell out of it.
Unknown Spell. While holding the hat, you can try to cast a level 1+ spell you don't know. The spell must be on the Wizard spell list, it must be of a level you can cast, and it can't have Material components costing more than 1,000 GP. Once you decide on the spell, you must expend a spell slot of the spell's level. Then, to determine whether you cast the spell, make an Intelligence (Arcana) check (DC 10 plus the spell's level). On a successful check, you cast the spell using its normal casting time, and you can't use this property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest. On a failed check, you fail to cast the spell and a random effect occurs instead, determined by rolling on the following table. Any spell you cast from the hat uses your spell save DC and spell attack bonus.
1d100 Effect
01-50 You cast a random spell determined by rolling 1d10: on a 1, Enlarge/Reduce (enlarge effect); on a 2, Enlarge/Reduce (reduce effect); on a 3, Faerie Fire; on a 4, Fireball; on a 5, Gust of Wind; on a 6, Invisibility (cast on yourself); on a 7, Lightning Bolt; on an 8, Phantasmal Force; on a 9, Polymorph; on a 10, Stinking Cloud.
51-55 You have the Stunned condition until the end of your next turn, believing something awesome just happened.
56-60 A harmless swarm of butterflies fills a 10- foot Cube within 30 feet of yourself. The swarm disperses after 1 minute.
61-65 You pull a nonmagical object out of the hat. Roll 1d4 to determine the object: on a 1, a vial of Acid; on a 2, a flask of Alchemist's Fire; on a 3, a Crowbar; on a 4, a lit Torch.
66-70 You suffer a bout of “magic sickness” and have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour.
71-75 You have the Petrified condition until the end of your next turn.
76-80 You pull a nonmagical object out of the hat. Roll 1d4 to determine the object: on a 1, a Dagger; on a 2, a Rope with a Grappling Hook tied to one end; on a 3, a bag of Caltrops; on a 4, a gem worth 50 GP.
81-85 A creature appears in an unoccupied space as close to you as possible. The creature isn't under your control and acts as it normally would, and it disappears after 1 hour or when it drops to 0 Hit Points. Roll 1d4 to determine the creature: on a 1, a Camel; on a 2, a Constrictor Snake; on a 3, an Elephant; on a 4, a Mule.
86-90 A Hostile Swarm of Bats flies out of the hat, occupies your space, and attacks you.
91-95 A vertical, 10-foot-diameter, two-way portal to another plane of existence opens in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of you and remains open until the end of your next turn. The DM determines where it leads.
96-00 You pull a magic item out of the hat. Roll 1d6 to determine the item's rarity: on a 1-3, Common; on a 4-5, Uncommon; on a 6, Rare. The DM chooses the item, which disappears after 1 hour if it's not consumed or destroyed before then.
- data-RarityNum: 0

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Free Basic Rules (2024)

