# Healer's Hand Amulet

**description**: This simple amulet has the raised image of an open hand within a circle upon it. The hand glows ever so slightly with a soft, golden light. Jhana the healer was a study in contrast. She had the gift of powerful divine healing and unmatched abilities in natural healing. Jhana was also a warrior, skilled with weapons and trained in the art of war. While there are many tales of Jhana efficiently dispatching enemies, even more tell of her tireless efforts to heal those that were in need, all in the name of the deity of life and healing. On the eve of what was to be a terrible battle, Jhana was visited in dream by the voice of her deity. In the dream, she was told to heal as many of the wounded as possible in the coming battle, regardless of their allegiance. Jhana awoke instantly, her body bathed in sweat. Around her neck was a strange, yet wonderous amulet. Jhana recognized it at once as the divine hand of her deity! The ensuing battle was one of the most brutal in history. When it was over, Jhana stood amid the sea of bodies and listened to the cries of the wounded. The magnitude of death was overwhelming. Bloodied and exhausted, Jhana moved among the bodies, healing every soul she could. As she went about her divinely appointed task, the hand upon her amulet glowed brightly. Jhana could feel her deity within her as the healing magic flowed through her hands. From that day forward, Jhana dedicated herself entirely to her deity. Although she continued to carry weapons, she used them only as a last resort. She spent the remainder of her days helping others and spreading messages of life and healing. Jhana’s amulet is thought to be buried with her, though none know the location of her marble tomb. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a cleric of non-evil alignment) While wearing this amulet, you can cast the spare the dying cantrip from it at will. Healer’s Helper (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing the amulet. 5th level. You can use Channel Divinity one additional time between rests. In addition, when you cast a spell that restores hit points and roll a 1 on the die, you can reroll the die. You must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1. 9th Level. By praying with up to two creatures for 1 minute, you can magically bind the creatures to you. Whenever you use a spell of 1st level or higher that restores hit points to a bound creature, the spell’s range is doubled. If the spell’s range is normally Touch, it is 30 feet if the target is a bound creature. You don’t have to see or hear a bound creature to restore hit points to it. 13th Level. You can now bind yourself to up to three creatures, instead of two. In addition, when you cast a spell that restores hit points to a target that is below half its hit point maximum, you roll 1 additional die. For example, if you cast healing word using a 1st-level slot on a creature that is below half its hit point maximum, you restore 2d4 hit points instead of 1d4. 17th Level. You can now bind yourself to up to four creatures, instead of three, and you can bind to creatures as an action, instead of as a 1-minute prayer. In addition, when you use a spell of 1st level or higher to restore hit points to a bound creature, the creature regains additional hit points equal to your level (minimum of 1).

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a cleric of non-evil alignment

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

