# Heartglow Lantern

**description**: Wondrous item, rarity varies Fashioned from a single piece of specially grown, hexagonal crystal fitted within a metal frame, a heartglow lantern doesn’t use burning fuel or ignited material to generate light, making it ideal in caverns where air supplies can be precious. You can use an action while holding one of these lanterns to cause it to shed bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. The light lasts until you use a bonus action to repeat the command word or until the lantern is no longer being held or carried by a living creature. Each lantern can create an additional effect when it is infused with vitality. Any creature touching a lantern can use an action to infuse it with some of the creature’s vitality. The creature’s hit-point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the creature’s proficiency bonus, and the lantern gains charges equal to that amount. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a long rest. Each lantern can hold any number of charges from any number of creatures, but each creature can infuse a lantern with vitality only once between long rests. Deadbane (Uncommon). While holding this lantern, you can use an action and expend 1 or more of its charges to cause the lantern to detect undead for 1 hour. When an undead is within 20 feet of the lantern, the light it sheds changes to blue, growing brighter the closer the undead is to the lantern. For each charge you spend beyond the first, the duration increases by 30 minutes, and the distance the lantern can detect undead increases by 5 feet. Increasing this distance doesn’t increase the radius of the light shed by the lantern. Floodmote (Very Rare). If you are submerged while holding or carrying this lantern, you can use a reaction and expend 1 or more of its charges to create a small bubble of air for yourself for 1 hour. For each charge you spend beyond the first, the duration increases by 1 hour, and you can choose one additional creature within 30 feet of you to also be protected with a bubble of air. The bubble of air surrounds only a creature’s head or other air-breathing organ and provides breathable air to the creature for the duration. Tumblesafe (Rare). If you or a friendly creature you can see within 40 feet of you falls while you are holding or carrying this lantern, you can use a reaction and expend 1 or more of its charges to slow the fall. For each charge you spend beyond the first, you can extend the light shed by the lantern by 5 feet. Each falling creature and object in the lantern’s light descends at a rate of 60 feet per round and takes no damage from falling. It continues to descend at this rate until it lands, even if it exits the lantern’s light before it lands.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Tome of Heroes

