# Heavy Crossbow of Bloodletting

**description**: Heavy Crossbow of Bloodletting Weapon (heavy crossbow), very rare (requires attunement) When you make an attack with this weapon, you can choose to take necrotic damage up to half your level and reduce your hit point maximum by the same amount. This necrotic damage can’t be reduced or prevented in any way. If you take necrotic damage this way, the damage roll of the attack gains a bonus equal to double the amount of necrotic damage you took. You must choose to take the necrotic damage before you make the attack roll. You can’t use this effect if there is an effect that prevents your hit point maximum from being reduced, such as the aura of life spell. When you reduce your hit point maximum this way, your hit point maximum can’t be restored to its normal value or increased until you finish a long rest, at which point it is restored to your normal hit point maximum. The first time you hit a creature with this weapon each turn, it begins to bleed profusely. At the start of its next turn, it takes 1d8 necrotic damage and its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage it takes. At the end of each of its turns, the creature can make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, ending the ongoing necrotic damage on a success. Creatures without blood, or that don’t rely on blood to survive (such as undead and most constructs) are immune to this effect. Ammunition. You can use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if you have ammunition to fire from the weapon. Each time you attack with the weapon, you expend one piece of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, case, or other container is part of the attack. At the end of the battle, you can recover half your expended ammunition by taking a minute to search the battlefield. If you use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a melee attack, you treat the weapon as an improvised weapon. Heavy. Small creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls with heavy weapons. A heavy weapon’s size and bulk make it too large for a Small creature to use effectively. Loading. Because of the time required to load this weapon, you can fire only one piece of ammunition from it when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction to fire it, regardless of the number of attacks you can normally make. Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged attack has a range in parentheses after the ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal range in feet, and the second indicates the weapon’s long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t attack a target beyond the weapon’s long range. Two-Handed. This weapon requires two hands when you attack with it. Damage : 1d10 Damage Type : Piercing Properties : Ammunition, Heavy, Loading, Range, Two-Handed Range : 100/400 Weight : 18

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Ammunition, Heavy, Loading, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

