# Helm of Velamish

**description**: This impressive great helm is trimmed with ornate gold filigree. Bold images of wings are etched into each side. Perhaps no paladin was more famous or more beloved by the people than Sir Velamish. A warrior of humble beginnings, Velamish grew to become one of the land’s most valiant crusaders against evil. Many brave and glorious deeds are attributed to the great paladin. He even single-handedly saved an aged cleric from the very jaws of the ancient red dragon Balmortigyrn. In time, however, death must come to all mortals, even those as brave and valiant as Sir Velamish, whose death came at the hands of a vile pit fiend. Velamish and the pit fiend had been locked in combat for hours on a barren field just outside a city which the paladin was sworn to protect. Though terribly wounded himself, the paladin prepared to deliver the killing blow to the mortally wounded pit fiend. Before Velamish’s blade could bite into the evil creature’s flesh, however, it unleashed a violent ball of flame which engulfed them both. When the flames finally died out, both Velamish and the pit fiend were gone. All that remained on the barren ground was Sir Velamish’s dented helm. The people wept in sadness and gratitude at Sir Velamish’s sacrifice. Lifting their eyes to the heavens, they gave thanks to the gods of good. Then, a miracle occurred. A blinding flash emanated from the helm. When their sight returned, the people marveled. Sir Velamish’s helm was no longer damaged! It had been returned to pristine condition! The city’s elderly high priest lifted the helm above his head and vowed to all those present that it would be forever a symbol of sacrifice and valor in the unending crusade against evil. The helm was given a place of honor in the city’s cathedral, where it remained for decades, until the city was sacked by foreign invaders. The current whereabouts of the helm of Velamish are unknown. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a paladin of good alignment) While wearing this helm, you have advantage on initiative rolls. Fiend Bane (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this helm. 5th level. You can cast the protection from evil and good spell on yourself as a bonus action at will, but the spell affects only fiends. 9th level. You have resistance to fire damage. 13th level. As an action, you can cause the helm to emit a flash of bright light. Each evil creature within 60 feet of you must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, taking 7d6 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Fiends have disadvantage on this saving throw. Once used, the helm can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 17th level. You can use an action to imbue a sword you are holding with divine power for 10 minutes. While imbued with divine power, the sword emits an aura in a 10-foot radius around you. You and all creatures friendly to you in the aura have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. In addition, you gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with the magic sword, and, when you hit a fiend with it, the fiend takes an extra 2d10 radiant damage. The sword immediately loses the divine power if wielded by anyone but you. Once used, you can’t imbue a sword with divine power again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a paladin of good alignment

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

