# Highforged Longsword +1

**description**: The Elven Craft of Highforging Before the Elven Diaspora thousands of years ago, arcane crafters used the unending magic of creation and unlocked the secrets of highforging to oppose two then-newly ascended warring gods. Highforged weapons and armor empowered ancient heroes to adjust their arsenal and counter each gods’ magic, giving elves a glorious albeit brief triumph. Millennia later, decadent sun elf nobles became interested in and revived the art of highforging, looking to express themselves and impress each other through never-before-seen combinations of magic. However, most of the revived ancient art was forgotten once more when entire sun elf nations disappeared one by one during the mysterious world-altering event known as the Elven Exodus. Now, the magic of both ancient and more contemporary highforged items awaits to be rediscovered and used against the warring gods in defense of Naam once again. Using Highforged Items in Your Games Highforged items give gamemasters a new tool to add another layer of excitement and gameplay, allowing the creation of balanced items with a range of customizable abilities. Many magic items can be created as or converted to highforged. A highforged magic item has its original properties in addition to one, two, or three arcane slots that can be fitted with magic gemstones that further enhance its power. This optional mechanic gives an alternative, more permanent use for uncommon consumable items such as Elemental Gems and the Gem of Brightness and allows players to combine the effects of more rare and permanent items that require attunement, such as Aeon (Ioun) Stones and the Stone of Good Luck. For example, a Blue Sapphire Elemental Gem can be fitted into a highforged magic weapon for additional thunder damage, or into a highforged magic armor for a permanent feather falling effect. Characters attuned to a highforged item can add or remove magic gems from its arcane slots as part of a short or long rest. If a character is attuned to more than one highforged items, they can add or remove magic gems from all their highforged items as part of the same rest. Magic gems with active effects, including consumable gems and certain Aeon (Ioun) Stones such as the Aeon (Ioun) Stone of Absorption, can be activated normally while inside highforged items as if they were being held, worn, or carried. When such a gem loses its magic, it stops granting highforging benefits and falls off the item it was slotted into. Arcane Slots and Highforged Item Rarity The rarity of a highforged item increases by one for each arcane slot it has compared to its non-highforged counterpart. For example, a Weapon +1 is uncommon, while a Highforged Weapon +1 with one arcane slot is rare. Similarly, a Sword of Wounding is rare, while a Highforged Sword of Wounding with two arcane slots is legendary, and a Highforged Sword of Wounding with three arcane slots is considered an artifact. This increase in rarity happens whether the arcane slot is empty or fitted with a magic gem. If a gem fitted in an arcane slot is rarer than the highforged item itself, the item’s rarity increases to match the rarity of the gem for as long as the gem is fitted. For example, an Armor +1 with one slot is very rare, but if a legendary Aeon (Ioun) Stone of Mastery is fitted into the armor’s slot, the armor’s rarity becomes legendary as well for as long as the Aeon (Ioun) Stone of Mastery is fitted in the armor’s arcane slot. Highforged items have the capacity to become artifacts, and regular artifacts can be highforged as well. When creating highforged artifacts, replace one randomly determined beneficial property for each arcane slot the artifact has, up to the three arcane slot limit. Highforged Item Eligibility and Attunement Use common sense to determine whether an item can be created as highforged and how many arcane slots it can have. Consumable items and wondrous items that are not worn or wielded in combat, such as Bag of Holding, Instant Fortress, and Mirror of Life Trapping, cannot be highforged. Amulets and rings can typically have only one arcane slot due to size. Nonmagical items that receive an arcane slot become common highforged magic items. Without a magic gem fitted, these items have no additional properties but count as magic items for the purpose of bypassing damage resistances in the case of weapons or resisting certain effects (such as a rust monster’s rust metal trait) in the case of armor. All highforged items require attunement regardless of how many arcane slots they have. Aeon (Ioun) Stones and the Stone of Good Luck can be fitted into a highforged item and attuned to using a single attunement slot for the highforged item and any of these gems. Converting Existing Items into Highforged At your discretion, characters may undergo epic quests to find ways to add one or more arcane slots to an existing item, converting it into highforged. The exact details of these quests are left up to you. When measuring the difficulty and the cost of highforging an existing item, consider the final rarity of the item after it has been highforged. For example, adding an arcane slot to an uncommon item, such as a Wand of Magic Missiles, should be as difficult and cost as much as creating a rare item. Highforging: Elemental Gems, Gems of Brightness, and Gems of Darkness A number of different magic gems can be fitted into a highforged item’s arcane slots. The most common such stones include the four types of Elemental Gems that contain motes of elemental energy, as well as Gems of Brightness and Gems of Darkness (which can be found in this book). Such gems bestow different benefits depending on the type of item they are fitted into, and multiple gems of the same color bestow additional and stacking benefits. If an item has more than one type, like a magical staff that is also a quarterstaff weapon or a Rod of Lordly Might, the character attuned to that item decides which type of the item it counts as for the purpose of determining the benefits it gains from highforging each time they add magic gems into that item’s arcane slots. You can see the different benefits each type of item gains depending on the type and number of Elemental Gems and Gems of Brightness in the tables below: Elemental Gem: Blue Sapphire (air elemental magic) Number of blue sapphires Rods, Staves, and Wands Weapons Armor and Wondrous Items One blue sapphire When you cast a spell using this item as your spellcasting focus, you add an extra 1d8 thunder damage to one of the spell’s damage rolls. This weapon deals an extra 1d6 thunder damage to any target it hits. When you fall while wearing this item, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling. Two blue sapphires When you cast a spell that deals thunder damage using this item as your spellcasting focus, that spell ignores thunder resistance. You can attack twice when making opportunity attacks with this weapon. You gain resistance to thunder damage. Three blue sapphires The extra thunder damage increases to 2d8. The extra thunder damage increases to 2d6. You gain a flying speed of 30 feet. Elemental Gem: Yellow Diamond (earth elemental magic) Number of yellow diamonds Rods, Staves, and Wands Weapons Armor and Wondrous Items One yellow diamond You gain a +1 bonus to spell attack rolls and to the saving throw DCs of spells cast using this item as your spellcasting focus. This weapon deals an extra 1d6 bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage (depending on the weapon’s base damage type) to any target it hits. You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws. Two yellow diamonds You have advantage on Constitution saving throws to maintain concentration on spells cast using this item as your spellcasting focus. You can’t be disarmed of this weapon unless you are incapacitated. You gain resistance to bludgeoning damage. Three yellow diamonds The bonus to spell attack rolls and to the saving throw DCs of spells cast through this item increases to +2. The extra bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage increases to 2d6. The bonus to AC and saving throws increases to +2. Elemental Gem: Red Corundum (fire elemental magic) Number of red corundums Rods, Staves, and Wands Weapons Armor and Wondrous Items One red corundum When you cast a spell using this item as your spellcasting focus, you add an extra 1d8 fire damage to one of the spell’s damage rolls. This weapon deals an extra 1d6 fire damage to any target it hits. Creatures you are grappling and creatures subjecting you to the grappled condition suffer 1d8 fire damage at the end of their turn. Two red corundums When you cast a spell that deals fire damage using this item as your spellcasting focus, that spell ignores fire resistance. Instead of rolling dice for fire damage, you deal maximum fire damage when you score a critical hit with this weapon. You gain resistance to fire damage. Three red corundums The extra fire damage increases to 2d8. The extra fire damage increases to 2d6. You are immune to the heat metal spell, and creatures you are grappling and creatures subjecting you to the grappled condition suffer 2d8 fire damage at the end of their turn. Elemental Gem: Emerald (water elemental magic) Number of emeralds Rods, Staves, and Wands Weapons Armor and Wondrous Items One emerald When you cast a spell using this item as your spellcasting focus, you add an extra 1d8 cold damage to one of the spell’s damage rolls. This weapon deals an extra 1d6 cold damage to any target it hits. You can stand on and move across any liquid surface as if it were solid ground. Two emeralds When you cast a spell that deals cold damage using this item as your spellcasting focus, that spell ignores cold resistance. Each successful attack with this weapon reduces the target’s speed by 10 feet, up to a maximum of 30 feet, until the start of your next turn. Creatures immune to cold are unaffected. You gain resistance to cold damage. Three emeralds The extra cold damage increases to 2d8. The extra cold damage increases to 2d6. You gain a swimming speed equal to double your walking speed and can breathe underwater. Gem of Brightness Number of Gems of Brightness Rods, Staves, and Wands Weapons Armor and Wondrous Items One Gem of Brightness You can cast dancing lights and light at will through this item. Creatures and objects hit by an attack with this weapon shed dim light in a 5-foot radius and can’t benefit from being invisible until the start of your next turn. You can use a bonus action to cause this item to shed bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. You can end this effect at any time (no action required). Two Gems of Brightness You can cast sacred flame at will through this item. The radius of the dim light increases to 10-feet and attack rolls against an affected creature or object are made with advantage until the start of your next turn if the attacker can see it. Invisible creatures and objects are visible as long as they are in the bright light created by this effect. Three Gems of Brightness You can cast faerie fire at will through this item. Creatures hit by an attack with this weapon must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become blinded until the start of your next turn. The light from this effect is sunlight. Gem of Darkness Number of Gems of Darkness Rods, Staves, and Wands Weapons Armor and Wondrous Items One Gem of Darkness When you cast a spell using this item as your spellcasting focus, you add an extra 1d8 necrotic damage to one of the spell’s damage rolls. This weapon deals an extra 1d6 necrotic damage to any target it hits. Your hit point maximum can't be reduced. Two Gems of Darkness When you cast a spell that deals necrotic damage using this item as your spellcasting focus, that spell ignores necrotic resistance. Hit points lost to this weapon's necrotic damage can be regained only through a short or long rest, rather than by regeneration, magic, or any other means. You gain resistance to necrotic damage. Three Gems of Darkness The extra necrotic damage increases to 2d8. The extra necrotic damage increases to 2d6. You gain advantage on saving throws against necromancy spells and harmful effects originating from undead creatures, and immunity to the power word kill spell. Highforging: Aeon (Ioun) Stones, Stones of Good Luck, Evil Eye Charms, Skycrystal Shards, and Soul Diamonds Aeon (Ioun) Stones and Stones of Good Luck, as well as Evil Eye Charms, Skycrystal Shards, and Soul Diamonds (all three of which can be found in this book), retain their original effects and do not bestow additional abilities when fitted into a highforged item, but characters can attune to any such gems using a single attunement slot for the highforged item and the gems fitted in it. Additionally, as long as they remain in an arcane slot, Aeon (Ioun) Stones can be used without having to orbit around a character’s head and holding the highforged item counts as holding the gems fitted in its slots for the purposes of using activated abilities. However, the effects of two magic gems with the same name do not stack even if one is fitted into an arcane slot and the other worn or wielded normally. For example, a character can attune to a Highforged Mace of Smiting with three arcane slots (an artifact-level item) and fit a Stone of Good Luck, an Aeon (Ioun) Stone of Fortitude, and an Evil Eye Charm using a single attunement slot, but the character cannot benefit from additional copies of these magic gems even if they attune to them separately. Highforged Item Examples Highforged Belt of Elvenkind (1 arcane slot) Wondrous item, Very Rare, Highforged (1 arcane slot, requires attunement) Nobles from the elven nation of Khemhotep customarily gave these belts to trusted therianthrope servants and allies of non-elven lineage, aiming to help them see the elven point of view. While wearing this belt you gain the following benefits: Your Dexterity score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20. You have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to interact with elves. In addition, while attuned to the belt, you have a 50 percent chance each day at dawn of your beard falling off if you have one. If you aren't an elf, you gain the following additional benefits while wearing the belt: You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put you to sleep. You have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. You can speak, read, and write Elvish. Highforged. This item has 1 arcane slot fitted with a Gem of Brightness , granting it the following additional property: One Gem of Brightness. You can use an action to cause this item to shed bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. You can use a bonus action to end this effect. Highforged Longsword +1 (2 arcane slots) Weapon (Longsword), Very Rare, Highforged (2 arcane slots, requires attunement) You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Highforged. This item has 2 arcane slots fitted with two: Red Corundums , granting it the following additional properties: Two Red Corundums. This weapon deals an extra 1d6 fire damage to any target it hits. Additionally, instead of rolling dice for fire damage, you deal maximum fire damage when you score a critical hit with this weapon. Highforged Asterite Ring (1 arcane slot) Wondrous item, Legendary, Highforged (1 arcane slot, requires attunement by a spellcaster) Crafted from asterite, a rare and innately magical meteoric metal, this ring has been further imbued with enduring magic. While wearing this ring, you can use a bonus action and roll 1d6 + 1. You gain a temporary spell slot of that level. This temporary spell slot lasts until it is used, until you finish a long rest, or until the next dawn. The ring can’t be used this way again until the next dawn. Highforged. This item has 1 arcane slot fitted with a Blue Sapphire , granting it the following additional property: One Blue Sapphire. When you fall while wearing this item, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling. Highforged Shadow Dragon Scale Mail (3 arcane slots) Armor (Scale Mail), Artifact, Highforged (3 arcane slots, requires attunement) Crafted from the scales of a dragon that embraced the shadows, this magic scale mail protects the wearer while imparting some of the dark power of shadow dragons to them. Mighty heroes might claim these scales from a shadow dragon they defeated. Rarely, shadow dragons might give their scales away willingly to mortals they deem worthy. While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, you have advantage on saving throws against the Frightful Presence and breath weapons of dragons, and you have resistance to necrotic damage. Shadow Stealth. While you are in dim light or darkness, you can take the Hide action as a bonus action. Dragonsense. You can focus your senses as an action to magically discern the distance and direction to the closest shadow dragon within 30 miles of you. This special action can't be used again until the next dawn. Highforged. This item has 3 arcane slots fitted with a Yellow Diamond and two Emeralds , granting it the following additional properties: One Yellow Diamond. You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws. Two Emeralds. You can stand on and move across any liquid surface as if it were solid ground. Additionally, you gain resistance to cold damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Weapon (Longsword)
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

