# Idol of Endless Curses

**description**: Idol of Endless Curses Wondrous item, legendary This Tiny statue, infused with all manner of curse magicks by a death cult over the course of thousands of years, is made of white sandstone and cries tears of black ichor when a creature touches it and while it is held. Curse. The idol is cursed, a fact that is revealed only when an identify spell is cast on the idol or you attune to it. Whenever a creature touches, wears, carries, or holds the idol, it suffers the idol’s curse (described below) until 24 hours after it is no longer touching, wearing, carrying, or holding the idol: Whenever a creature attacks the cursed creature, the attack roll has advantage. The cursed creature subtracts a d6 from each ability check, attack roll, and saving throw it makes. Each time the cursed creature takes damage, it takes an additional 1d6 necrotic damage, and its hit point maximum is reduced by an equal amount until it finishes a long rest after it is no longer subject to the idol’s curse. This necrotic damage can’t be reduced or prevented in any way, and a creature dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0. Once the cursed creature has stopped touching, wearing, carrying, or holding the idol, the remove curse spell can be cast on it to end the idol’s curse on it. Attuning to the idol causes you to suffer its curse until you die or another creature attunes to it; the remove curse spell, ending your attunement to the idol, or distancing yourself from the idol for any length of time fails to end the curse. Dying while attuned to the idol also breaks your attunement to it, in addition to ending its curse on you. Font of Curses (Requires Attunement by an Accursed). You are immune to the effects of the idol’s curse, and dying doesn’t break your attunement to it against your will. While you wear or hold the idol, you gain the following benefits: You gain a +2 bonus to your curse save DC and to saving throws. While you use the idol as a spellcasting focus, you have a +2 bonus to the spell attack rolls and spell save DC of accursed spells you cast. You can cast the hex spell from the idol without expending a spell slot. When you do, the spell doesn’t end until you lose concentration, the target dies, or the remove curse spell or similar magic is cast on the target. The idol has 6 charges. When you cast an accursed spell using the idol as a spellcasting focus, you can expend 1 charge to cause the spell to be cast at one level higher than the spell slot you expended. To gain this benefit, you must expend a spell slot of the spell’s level or higher, as normal. The idol regains 1d6 charges each night at midnight.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

