# Ilio, the Shackled Sun

**description**: Weapon (flail), artifact (requires attunement) The length of this flail is wrought of wondrous and heavy chain that holds its head, a miniature sun, in place. It sheds bright light in a 60-foot radius, and dim light for 60 feet beyond that. This light is sunlight. The flail is itself a prison for Ilio, a sun god of ages past, and is a magic, sentient weapon that grants a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. It can be used as a holy symbol for clerics or paladins and grants them a +3 bonus to spell attack rolls while wielded. Weapon attacks made with Ilio deal radiant damage. Sentience. Ilio is a sentient chaotic neutral weapon with an Intelligence of 17, a Wisdom of 25, and a Charisma of 21. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 120 feet. Ilio can speak, read, and understand Common and Celestial, and can communicate with its wielder telepathically, speaking in an immense, booming voice that sounds across all octaves and registers at once. Personality. Ilio seeks to be free of his prison and slay his successor, the sun god Aurix, to reclaim his rightful position and title. For as long as his wielder pursues these goals, he will grant what boons he can freely. Should his wielder stray too far from Ilio’s quest, however, Ilio will remind them forcefully that gifts can be taken back, and that gods are not to be trifled with. Ilio is an imposing personality and hails from a time when gods were more…feared than those of today. He expects his wielder to obey him absolutely, despite having little agency to enforce such demands. Praise the Sun 1 . Ilio has 8 charges and regains 1d4 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. While attuned to Ilio, you can use an action and expend 1 or more charges to cast one of the following spells (save DC 19): branding smite (1 charge), fireball (2 charges), wall of fire (3 charges), hallow (4 charges), or sunburst (6 charges). Ilio’s Embrace. You have immunity to fire and radiant damage while attuned to Ilio. Enemy creatures that begin their turn within 5 feet of you suffer 1d8 fire damage. Break the Chains. As an action, you may break the chains imprisoning Ilio, unleashing a cataclysmic wave of light and flame. You and all creatures within a 1-mile radius must make a DC 23 Constitution saving throw, suffering 50d6 fire damage and 50d6 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much on a success. If this damage reduces a creature to 0 hit points, they are immediately vaporised into a pile of fine ash, and creatures that survive the blast are permanently blinded. The artifact is destroyed. After, Ilio takes his place as an additional sun in the sky of the plane in which he was released, potentially altering the realm forever. Destroying Ilio. The only way to truly destroy Ilio is to eradicate all knowledge of his existence and cast him into the darkest depths of the multiverse, somewhere even his light cannot escape. For as long as his light shines and his memory lives on, Ilio cannot truly be destroyed, only bide his time… Sealed within the Lightless Vault in the Monastery of the Silver Staff, there lurks a chained god – Ilio, the Searing Light. Shackled by forces lost to history and usurped by the Sunbringer Aurix, Ilio awaits a worthy bearer to aid him in his quest for vengeance. 1 – If only you could be so grossly incandescent.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (flail)
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Animancer

**book**: Enchiridion Vaz’kin’rai

