# Improved Rifling Cleaver

**description**: Improved Rifling Cleaver Trick weapon (cleaver, rifle), rare You have a +1 to attack and damage rolls made with both forms of this magic weapon. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In its untransformed state, it is a large cleaver. In its transformed state, the weapon is a rifle. You can reload the rifle even in its untransformed state. Untransformed. After making a melee weapon attack with this weapon, you can immediately use your bonus action to make a ranged weapon attack with the rifle against a creature within range that is behind you and in a straight line with you and your first target. This shot extends the weapon, transforming it. Transformed. This rifle has the Barrel (F) property instead of the Barrel (S) property. Though unwieldy in melee, you can use a bonus action to make a melee attack with the opposite end of the rifle. This attack uses your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier. The damage die for this attack is a d8, and it deals bludgeoning damage. Your weapon then reverts to its untransformed state. *Roll20 Note: Add the Improved Rifling Cleaver (Untransformed) to your character sheet for full functionality. Firearms. Firearms were created out of a dire need to fight the scourge. They all include silver in their construction, and as such, the projectiles they fire are considered silvered for the purposes of overcoming resistances and immunities. Some firearm and ammunition properties require your target to make a saving throw to avoid the effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Firearm save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier Ammunition. The ammunition of a firearm is destroyed upon use. Barrel. The weapon can be fired a number of times equal to the number of bullets its barrel can hold (written as Barrel X) before it must be reloaded according to its fast or slow reload property (F or S, respectively). Fast reload. You must use an attack, an action, or a bonus action to reload this firearm. You must have one free hand to do so. Blaring. Firing this weapon makes a thunderous crack. The sound can be heard from up to 100 feet away. Firing a weapon with this property makes it hard to go undetected; you have disadvantage on Stealth checks to hide until the start of your next turn. In addition, if a creature is within the area of the sound blast, it has advantage on Perception checks against you. Twinned Barrel. This weapon has two barrels that can each hold a bullet and can both be loaded as part of reloading the weapon. You can fire both barrels of a double barrel weapon as part of an attack, instead of each barrel individually. Doing so empties the barrel of the weapon (as per the Barrel property) but increases the damage die of the weapon on a hit (from d4 to d6 to d8 to d10 to d12). Steady. A weapon with this property can be stabilized for greater accuracy. As a bonus action, you give yourself a bonus to your next attack roll with this weapon this turn equal to your proficiency bonus, and attacking at long range doesn’t impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You can use this bonus action only if you haven’t moved during your turn, and after you use the bonus action, your speed is halved until the end of your turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Finesse, Ammunition (range 120/240), Artillery, Barrel 2 (F), Blaring, Steady, Twinned Barrel, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: uncommon

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

