# Jokesplitter

**description**: “Who buries a handaxe in the middle of a log?” “Do you really want to know?” Legend Jokesplitter is a small handaxe that members of the fey court made entirely out of wood to mock warring groups of humans and orcs who fought over a forest to harvest for timber. An orcish deserter named Dranug found the seemingly useless handaxe and used it in his career as a gladiator, so the fey have conspired to write a new history with the help of an unsuspecting adventurer. Dranug’s gladiatorial career displeased the fey who created Jokesplitter . They wanted its user to revel in nonviolent conflict, so they stole the weapon back and used their magic to make Dranug forget about it. Location Now Jokesplitter could be here, or there, or just about anywhere. Wanting the weapon to be used, the fey spawn tales of its location. Some of these tales are actually true! Encounter Ideas Joke’s on You! While making camp in the wilderness, a party member splits a particularly fine piece of firewood, only for it to explode in a hail of splinters which leaves Jokesplitter in its wake, having appeared as if from nowhere. Who’s Laughing Now? A lesser rival of the adventurers finds Jokesplitter . The next time they encounter this rival, the party finds a more dangerous foe who has become wildly popular using Jokesplitter’s gifts. Joke’s on Me! A bard has heard legends of a handaxe that can act like a muse and asks the adventurers to find it. If they do, the bard realizes, much to their dismay, that the weapon is only an effective muse for people who lack bardic training. Progression Jokesplitter progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s Strength modifier increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. Statistics Weapon (Handaxe), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Jokesplitter normally takes the form of a harmless wooden hatchet. As a bonus action, you can speak a command word, causing a metal blade to emerge for 10 minutes, transforming it into a magical handaxe. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, you gain proficiency in the Deception skill. Rare . While holding this weapon, you can give yourself a bonus to Charisma (Deception) checks equal to your Strength modifier. Made You Look. When you are targeted by a spell or magical effect, you can use your reaction to teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see, leaving a wooden replica of your body in your original space, which the spell targets. You can use this property twice and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. In addition, you gain proficiency in the Persuasion skill. While holding this weapon, you can give yourself a bonus to Charisma (Persuasion) checks equal to your Strength modifier. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. What an Unworthy Effort. You can use an action to mock someone’s use of magic, casting dispel magic through this weapon. If you must make an ability check to see if this spell succeeds, you make a Charisma (Deception) check against the DC instead. You can use this property twice and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (handaxe)
- Properties: Light, Thrown
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

