# Kaftan of the Four Winds - Turbulent

**description**: Kaftan of the Four Winds Armor (Studded Leather), Evolving Artifact (requires attunement) Crafted by a primordial air elemental lord in ages past, the Kaftan of the Four Winds was a gift to a mortal hero who used newfound magic to defend ancient elementals from a host of corrupted celestial creatures. Millennia later, the kaftan was forcefully removed from a temple of elemental magic and presented as a gift to an ambitious mortal king who sought to extend his dominion over dragonkind. After the king’s demise by the claws of elder dragons, the kaftan was lost and its magic has lain dormant since, waiting for a worthy hero to unlock its true power once more. Breezy. While wearing the armor, you gain the following benefits: The armor grants you a +1 bonus to AC. When you fall while wearing this armor, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling. You suffer no harm in temperatures as cold as -20 degrees Fahrenheit or as warm as 120 degrees Fahrenheit while wearing this armor. You can cast the minor gust cantrip at will. Gusty (level 5). After you reach level 5, the armor increases in power, gaining the following additional properties: The AC bonus of the armor increases to +2. You can use an action to cast the levitate spell on yourself at will. The Kaftan of the Four Winds gains 10 charges. While wearing it, you can use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC, spellcasting ability modifier, and spell attack bonus: devil of dust (2 charges), gust of wind (2 charges), wind wall (3 charges), or wind ward (2 charges). The kaftan regains all expended charges daily at dawn. Turbulent (level 11). After you reach level 11, the armor is further empowered, gaining the following additional properties: The AC bonus of the armor increases to +3. You have a flying speed equal to your walking speed and can hover. The kaftan’s charges increase to 20 and the following spells are added to the spells you can cast from it: wind control (5 charges), wind walk (6 charges), and wind investiture (6 charges). Tempestuous (level 17). After you reach level 17, the armor achieves its full potential, gaining the following additional properties: You are immune to damage from any spells you cast from this item. The kaftan’s charges increase to 30 and the following spells are added to the spells you can cast from it: control weather (8 charges), and storm of vengeance (9 charges). If you are reduced to 0 hit points or subjected to an effect that would kill you instantly, you remain at 0 hit points and transform, along with everything you are wearing and carrying, into a living storm instead of falling unconscious. While in this form, you have a flying speed of 300 feet; immunity to all damage and conditions, and to any effects that would kill you instantly; and advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. If air can pass through a space, you can do so without squeezing. You can’t attack, and the only spells you can cast are spells from this item. When casting spells from the kaftan while in this form, you expend no charges to do so. This transformation lasts for 1 hour, after which you suffer 4 levels of exhaustion and revert to your normal form with 1 hit point. This property can’t be triggered again until 30 days have passed. Hemera on Kaftan of the Four Winds “I… this surely is an artifact of legendary power, but I would like to draw your attention to the design. I mean, the sartorial qualities of this kaftan are, well, impressive, no? That primordial air elemental lord must’ve had a great fashion sense, or at least that’s what I think…” Optional Rule: Story-Based Evolution The Kaftan of the Four Winds is an evolving artifact that is typically found in its Breezy state and increases in power as its wearer gains levels. At the gamemaster’s discretion, the kaftan’s evolution can be tied to significant events during the campaign, such as its wearer seeking out the primordial air elemental lord who created it or using the kaftan’s power to overcome a seemingly impossible challenge. As an evolving artifact, the kaftan is powerful in all tiers of play regardless of its state.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Armor (Studded Leather)
- Item Rarity: evolving artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

