# Kelgror's Hammer (Level 13)

**description**: This warhammer has a shimmering, almost translucent quality. The image of an anvil is etched into each side. Kelgror was a legendary dwarven smith. He was renowned for the beautiful arms and armor he created. Great kings and mighty warriors came from all over the land in the hopes that Kelgror would craft for them. Near the end of the famous smith’s life, Kelgror began his greatest masterpiece—a mighty hammer. Kelgror worked day and night, lovingly pouring every ounce of skill and energy he had into the weapon’s creation. For many months, the aging dwarf worked, never quite satisfied with the hammer. Feeling his health beginning to fail, old Kelgror knelt at his anvil and prayed to the gods. “Do not take me until I have finished my work!” he cried. The gods heard his prayer, for Kelgror lived on. At last, after many more months of toil, Kelgror finally wiped his wrinkled brow and admired the hammer. The old dwarf smiled. It was truly his greatest achievement. The old dwarf’s pride was tinged with regret, for he would never wield the hammer in glorious battle. With these final feelings of pride and regret in his heart, Kelgror, the great dwarven smith, died. As Kelgror had wished, his hammer was passed from one great dwarven warrior to another. Many who have wielded it report feeling the spirit of Kelgror was with them, sharing in every great deed. Some even say Kelgror’s voice whispers to them when they hold the hammer… Weapon (warhammer), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While this warhammer is on your person, you have proficiency with smith’s tools. Dwarf Friend (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wielding this hammer. 5th level. You can use an action to cast the speak with dead spell from the hammer. If the target is a dwarf, it must give you a truthful answer, even if it recognizes you as an enemy. Once used, the hammer can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. In addition, Kelgror’s spirit awakens within the hammer, and the hammer becomes a sentient neutral good warhammer with an Intelligence of 11, a Wisdom of 15, and a Charisma of 13. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. It communicates telepathically with its wielder, and it can speak, read, and understand Dwarven. Above all else, Kelgror’s spirit wishes to see the dwarven race thrive and prosper. It pushes its wielder to protect dwarven lives, cultures, and ways of life, and it urges its wielder to seek and destroy evil giants. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this magic weapon. In addition, you can cast the spiritual weapon spell from it to create a spectral hammer resembling this hammer, using Wisdom as your spellcasting ability. Once used, the hammer can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this hammer, instead of +1. In addition, the hammer gains the thrown property with a normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet. When you hit a creature with a ranged attack using this weapon, it deals an extra 1d8 bludgeoning damage. If the target is a giant, the weapon deals an extra 2d8 bludgeoning damage instead. Immediately after the attack, the hammer flies back to your hand. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this hammer, instead of +2. In addition, you can use an action to cast the etherealness spell from the hammer. The spell lasts for 10 minutes or until you use an action to end the spell. Once used, the hammer can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

