# Last Laugh

**description**: The Last Laugh has a nose for trouble the way a pig has a nose for truffles. Legend Bartolomeu de Brito was an itinerant minstrel known for his quick wit and biting tongue. His career came to an abrupt end in the court of a duke that appreciated neither of those traits. He had Bartolomeu hanged, dipped his skull in iron, mounted it to a mace, and displayed it as a warning to future guests. When brought to the gallows, Bartolomeu exclaimed “Today, you will make me immortal. Tomorrow, you will fade into obscurity. I will have the last laugh.” Centuries later, every bard knows the story of Bartolomeu de Brito, but none can remember his killer’s name. Location The Last Laugh has an improbable knack for winding up in a provocateur’s hands right on the cusp of a social upheaval. They discover the mace in a bizarre location, wield it for a time, and then lose it under equally bizarre circumstances once their need has passed. Its last wielder found it in their bathtub and lost it in a drunken bet with a traveling kobold juggler. Encounter Ideas Barkeep, There’s a Mace in my Ale! A bartender finds the Last Laugh at the bottom of a keg of ale right as the tyrannical local baron’s thugs kick open the front door to shake the place down. He tosses the mace to the party and begs them to defend the tavern. Wait, What? A masked minstrel (or three kobolds in a minstrel costume) playing a hurdy-gurdy comes across the party on the road and hands them the Last Laugh . “You’ll need this soon. Oh, and say hi to the dragon. She doesn’t bite… much.” All’s Well. The Most Ignoble Order of Satirists asks the party for a favor. In return for this favor, they will inform the party as to the location of the mace —it is inside a gelatinous cube at the bottom of a nearby well. Progression The Last Laugh progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. Statistics Weapon (Mace), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . You can utter a command word to cause the weapon to emit soft giggling sounds like that of a small child, which lasts until the end of your next turn. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Last Laugh. When you attack a creature with an Intelligence score of 5 or more with this weapon and roll a 20 on the attack roll, the target begins laughing uncontrollably. They fall prone, are incapacitated, and are unable to stand up until the end of their next turn. Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Last Laugh now lasts for 1 minute. The target can make a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of their turns to end the effect. The DC is equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. While incapacitated by Last Laugh, the target is now also paralyzed.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (mace)
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

