# Library of the Blue Candles - Dormant, First Wing

**description**: Library of the Blue Candles Wondrous item, Evolving Artifact (requires attunement) The Library of the Blue Candles is a legendary repository of arcane knowledge hidden between dimensions, accessible through a scholar’s robe. Underking Galdruman, Sage-King of the deep dwarves, was said to have the most extensive collection of rare tomes in his personal library, the secret Library of the Blue Candles. In the aftermath of a violent uprising, the Sage-King fled into exile and those who usurped his power sought to discover the location of the library to no avail. Underking Galdruman had taken his library with him, and the secret of its location was lost with his death. Using powerful magic, the Sage-King had hidden his library in a pocket dimension that one could access through a well-crafted, robust, but seemingly unassuming scholar’s robe. Now, whoever dons the robe once more can attempt to master that dimension and claim the knowledge contained within. Dormant, First Wing. While wearing this robe in its dormant state, you gain the following benefits: If you aren’t wearing armor, your base Armor Class is 11 + your Dexterity modifier. You can use an action to cast one of the following spells from the robe at will: comprehend languages , detect magic , light , or mage hand . You can focus on the robe’s magic for 1 minute to cast plane shift to or from the Library of the Blue Candles. When casting plane shift from the library that way, you can only target the plane you reached the library from, and you arrive at the exact spot from where you had left. You can use this property without consequences a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus until the next dawn. Each time you use this property after you have used it a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus before the next dawn, you and any other target of the plane shift spell gain 1d4 levels of exhaustion. Additionally, attuning to the robe makes you the planar ruler of the Library of the Blue Candles, which grants you the following benefits related to the library: You gain access to the library’s first wing, which includes the teleportation circle, the index, the secret lounge, and the central repository of knowledge. You control planar travel to the library. You can designate which creatures can enter the library through planar travel and only creatures using wish or divine intervention can enter the library against your will. Portals created by the gate spell can only open in the library if you allow them to. While inside the library, you can use an action to summon any book that you know it’s in the library to your hands. You may study a skill or a tool in the library as part of a long rest. Doing so gives you a +10 on a single ability check within the next day that is related to that skill or tool. Empowered, Second Wing (Level 11). After you reach level 11, the robe increases in power, gaining the following additional properties: If you aren’t wearing armor, your base Armor Class is 13 + your Dexterity modifier. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened, and against illusion spells. The robe functions as a Ring of Spell Storing . You can use an action to cast one of the following additional spells from the robe at will: identify , or tongues (self only). When you are hit by an attack or subjected to an effect that would damage you, you can use your reaction to cast plane shift targeting only yourself. When casting plane shift that way, you are transported to the Library of the Blue Candles and avoid all damage from the triggering attack or effect. Once used, this property can’t be used again until the next dawn. Additionally, your command over the Library of the Blue Candles grows, which grants you the following additional benefits related to the library: You gain access to the library’s second wing, which includes the main library hall, the forbidden history section, the hidden office, the living quarters, the kitchen, and the mess hall. You gain the power to influence the flow of time inside the library. You and any creatures you designate can gain the benefits of a short or a long rest by spending only half the time required while resting inside the library. Additionally, you can double or halve the duration of any spells cast within the library. While inside the library, you can cast legend lore as part of a long rest, requiring no material components. Supreme, Third Wing (Level 17). After you reach level 17, the robe achieves its full potential, gaining the following additional properties: If you aren’t wearing armor, your base Armor Class is 15 + your Dexterity modifier. You are immune to feeblemind and any magical effects that reduce Intelligence. Functioning as an enhanced Ring of Spell Storing , the robe can now store up to 10 levels worth of spells at a time and it can store spells of all levels. You can now use your action to cast plane shift to or from the Library of the Blue Candles at will. When casting plane shift from the library that way, you can only target the plane you reached the library from, and you arrive at the exact spot from where you had left. Additionally, gain complete control of the Library of the Blue Candles, which grants you the following additional benefits related to the library: You gain access to the library’s third and final wing, which includes the ritual room, the annex arcanum, and the spell compendium. While inside the library, you can cast banishment at will, requiring no spell components and no concentration. When cast that way, the DC for the spell’s Charisma saving throw is 15 or your spell save DC, whichever is higher. While inside the library’s ritual room, you can perform a special ritual over the course of 1 hour, at the conclusion of which you speak the full title of a specific book and attempt to magically summon it to you. The nearest copy of that book that isn’t held or carried instantly appears in your hands regardless of physical or planar distances. If another creature is holding or carrying the only copy of the book, or if the book is protected against teleportation or planar travel, performing that ritual does not transport the book to you, but instead you learn who the creature possessing the book is and roughly where the book is located at that moment. Optional Rule: Story-Based Evolution Being a robe and an interdimensional library both, the Library of the Blue Candles is a unique artifact that can change the course of a campaign, especially when found early on. At the gamemaster’s discretion, instead of evolving as its owner gains levels, the Library of the Blue Candles may increase in power through story-based events, or only if its owner and their allies explore and secure the library’s wings that might be populated with hostile creatures. Adventure Hook: Demons of the Blue Flame At the gamemaster’s discretion, the Library of the Blue Candles may be found infested with a host of demons. Led by Zeragon, an exiled demon-lord, these demons sought to escape enslavement by an evil god by hiding in the library. Designed to protect the tomes within, the library’s magic gradually altered the demons, transmuting their infernal fire into the same blue fire that illuminates the library’s halls without burning. Ages later, weakened but exceptionally well-read, the Demons of the Blue Flame still reside in the library, reluctant to leave without their original infernal powers and still wary of being enslaved. Player characters seeking to unlock the library’s full potential must first remove the Demons of the Blue Flame, either by force, persuasion, or deception; or find a way to earn the demons’ loyalty and allow them to remain in the library as allies and infernal librarians. Library of the Blue Candles Map Locations Teleportation circle that acts as the entrance to the library Central repository of knowledge Secret lounge , cozy and quiet Index concealed behind a bookcase Cozy reading nook Concealed doors behind bookcases Balcony and staircase connecting first and second wing Main library hall Hidden office fit for a sage-king Secret tunnel to forbidden history section Forbidden history section Mess hall Kitchen Cellar Servant dormitory Sage-King’s Quarters , including private bathroom and walk-in closet Restrooms and bathrooms Guestrooms Staircase connecting second and third wing Spell compendium , a comprehensive collection of magic spells Annex arcanum , a collection of tomes on all things magical Ritual room Planning room in which the Sage-King held court Sealed vault for handling dangerous magic

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: evolving artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

