# Living Witch Finger

**description**: Wondrous item, Any (requires attunement) All living witch fingers that are displayed properly as hag gifts grant a +1 bonus to AC. This armor class bonus will not stack with any other armor bonus. Each living witch finger is slightly different and will grant different powers to you based on your knowledge of the victim, their race, and their level of power. Power And Living Witch Fingers A living witch finger is different from a common witch finger because the victim is still alive. If the living witch finger is your own finger then you get an increased power explained below. The power and abilities of any living witch finger depends on: Knowledge of the victim The victim’s race The victim’s level of power Living witch fingers still function if the living victim is on a different plane of existence from their severed and enchanted finger. The following list is not exhaustive, but represents the sort of living witch fingers found on neutral and evil spellcasters, the deranged, the desperate, or in stolen loot piles. Knowledge or Intimacy The level of knowledge and or intimacy with the victim will grant one of the following bonuses. Note that randomly discovered witch fingers usually result in no knowledge of the victim. Nothing. Common, no bonus. Circumstantial. Common, +1 to a random skill. Understanding. Uncommong, +2 to a random skill. Complete. Rare, +1 to skill of your choice, and +1 on Initiative rolls. If this finger used to belong to you then this is your level of understanding. The legend lore spell, at the DM’s discretion, will increase the knowledge level of a randomly found living witch finger to this level. Great Enemy. Very Rare, +1 to all skills you are proficient in and +2 on Initiative if in combat with this great enemy. This is the level of knowledge a hag has when displaying another hag’s Living Witch Finger. Mad Love. Legendary, +1 to your Proficiency when your twisted object of affection is within 120 feet and visual sight of you. If you fail a saving throw and your love is within sight then you can choose to succeed instead, but only once per day. Race of the Victim Note that undead victims are listed in the legendary section, and their once living bonuses for their race are lost. Player Races Common Human. Common, advantage on an ability check 1/Week. Uncommon Dragonborn. Uncommon, your spells of one type of energy damage, inflict +1 damage per die (Recharge 5-6). This damage increase will match the energy damage of the particular dragonborn victim that lost a finger. The living witch finger from a white dragonborn will add +1 cold damage per die with spells that do cold damage, such as cone of cold. Gnome. Uncommon, you have advantage on all Intelligence saving throws against magic spells or effects. Half-Elf. Uncommon, you have proficiency with a random skill that you are not already proficient with. Half-Orc. Uncommon, when you are reduced to 0 hit points you can choose to be reduced to 1 hit point instead. You can use this ability once per long rest. Tiefling. Uncommon, hellish rebuke, is now in your list of spells you can choose from. If you already have access to this spell, then you can cast it innately 1/Day. Rare Eladrin. Rare, you can innately cast misty step (self only) 3/Day. Aasimar. Rare, you can innately cast lesser restoration (self only) 3/Day. Firbolg. Rare, you can innately cast invisibility (self only) 3/Day. Kenku. Rare, you can innately cast knock (range 5 feet) 3/Day. Lizardfolk. Rare, you can innately cast barkskin (self only) 3/Day. Tabaxi. Rare, you can innately cast darkvision (self only) 3/Day. Triton. Rare, you can innately cast water breathing (self only) 3/Day. Monstrous Races Rare Bugbear. Rare, you can choose to deal 7 (2d6) additional damage with a spell that hits a surprised target. You can do this once per combat encounter. Gnoll. Rare, you can heal yourself for 7 (2d6) hit points if you kill a target with a spell attack, if the target is within 30 feet of you. You can do this once per combat encounter. Goblin. Rare, you do 7 (2d6) additional damage with a spell against a target that is a size category larger than you. You can do this once per combat encounter. Hobgoblin. Rare, you can choose to be immune to the effects of your own spell if you are allowed a saving throw. This immunity ends when your turn is completed. You can do this once per combat encounter. Kobold. Rare, you can choose to have an advantage with a spell attack roll if you have an ally within 5 feet of your spell’s target. You can do this once per combat encounter. Orc. Rare, you can move up to your normal speed as a bonus action, as long as it is towards a target you have cast a spell at this turn. You can do this once per combat encounter. Sahuagin or Kua-Toa. Rare, targets of your spell that can or are breathing water currently, regardless of how, take an additional 6 (2d6) acid damage. You can do this once per combat encounter. Yuan’ti. Rare, you can reduce the resistance to poison of a target of your spell if that spell does poison damage. Invulnerability becomes resistance; resistance becomes normal (no resistance); normal becomes vulnerability to poison. You can do this once per combat encounter. Very Rare Arcane. (see bestiary). Very rare, you have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks if the target profits in some way by agreeing with you. Doppelganger. Very rare, you can chose to shape change into a creature you have killed with a spell less than 10 minutes before. The target must have been the same size category as you and you can only change into that shape or back into your true form. If you spend more than an hour in their form you may suffer madness complications based on the DM’s choice. Fey. Very rare, the damage dice used to determine your spell damage are increased by one step. For example, d3s become d4s, d4s become d6s, d6s become d8s, and so on. You can do this once per combat encounter. Githyanki. Very rare, as a reaction, any failed saving throw to resist a spell effect, succeeds instead. You can do this once per combat encounter. Githzerai. Very rare, if you cast a spell and its target or targets require a Wisdom saving throw you can force all or none of the affected targets to reroll their saving throw, even if they failed their saving throw the first time. You can do this once per combat encounter. Hags. If the user of a hag’s living witch finger is another hag, then they are immune to the victim hag’s spells or abilities. A hag will also have a +1 to all of her proficiencies. This bonus does not count for a hag using their own finger as a witch finger. A Hag using her own personal witch finger increases the saving throw DC of her abilities, spells, and abilities by +1 (this can stack with other witch finger bonuses). If a living witch finger of a hag is used by someone other than a hag, then they only receive a bonus based on the type of hag. Hags will receive these specific type bonus as well. Annis Hag. Very rare, you can increase the DC of your spell’s saving throw by adding all of your Int, Wis, and Chr ability modifiers to a spell. For example, you cast fireball and the spell saving throw DC is normally 8 + proficiency + Int for you. Using this power, the DC of that spell is now 8 + proficiency + Chr + Int + Wis. You can use this power once per long rest. Bheur Hag. Very rare, you can force all targets being hit by one of your cold damage spells to make an additional DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 2d3 rounds. Victims of this are allowed to reattempt this saving throw on the start of their combat rounds, with success removing the frightened condition. Green Hag. Very rare, you can cast one spell without breaking concentration, invisibility, or stealth and using no verbal or somatic components. You can do this once per long rest. Night Hag. Very rare, as a reaction, you can force one of the targets of your spell to spend the next d3 rounds trapped in the Ethereal Plane unless they make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw. After their d3 combat rounds have expired they return with a snap and roll initiative again. You can do this once per long rest. Nightshade Hag (see bestiary). Very rare, as an action, you can gaze attack a sentient creature that can see you as long as they are within 60 feet of you. This gaze attack is a Charisma contest, with the loser gaining the restrained condition for 1d4 rounds. If a nightshade hag is using her own witch finger then she can gaze attack two creatures at once, with the risk of restraining herself if she fails a Charisma contest against either target. Sea Hag. Very Rare, one frightened creature within 30 feet of you, must make a Charisma saving throw DC 15 or be reduced to 0 hit points if they fail a spell saving throw caused by one of your spells. You can do this once per long rest. Legendary. The fingers of demons, devils, angels, and other legendary races are as prized as they are powerful. No two witch fingers of this category are going to be the same. These living witch fingers disintegrate if their victim is permanently destroyed. These are sometimes given to trusted and powerful servants or claimed as prizes during especially violent or depraved periods of the Blood War. The Immortal hag, Ravel, has somehow made multiple witch fingers from her own hand and spread them throughout the planes. These are considered legendary and cursed by sane spellcasters. Undead. Legendary, if your spell targets a single living target and that target fails a saving throw for that spell, you can, if you are living, regain 18 (3d8 + 6) hit points. If you are undead you cannot heal yourself but can choose to cause another 18 (3d8 + 6) necrotic damage to your target. The rarity of this witch finger stems from the fact that the finger is made before the target becomes undead. An undead creature cannot have a witch finger made from its body.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 34600
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Any
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

