# Lost Wings

**description**: Before the great cataclysm, a group of wizards known as the Azrhaqun were infamous for their command over demonic forces. When the world was in danger, they realized that it might lead to their own end - and they made a desperate attempt at stopping the dragon god. They summoned an army of the most powerful kind of demon they could control, and sent them to attack the raging draconic deity. Despite all their combined power, they were no match for their enemy - and the entire legion of demons was wiped out. As a curious side effect of their destruction, the wings of the demons remained. Known as Lost Wings, these wondrous magical items are still alive and longing to attach themselves to a body. Several hundred of these are known to still exist in the world. It’s assumed that a few of them are still hidden or buried somewhere, waiting to be found. Even though the Lost Wings haven’t been magically cursed, their effects on mortal bodies are so similar that they count as cursed items. Cursed Item Magic schools: Transmutation Cost: 2000 gp Magic properties: The Lost Wings are longing to be attached to a living body. They attune to their new owner as they merge with a person’s back, a painful process that takes one hour. They can be removed at any time throughout this process. Once attached, the wings give you a flying speed of 40. You can use them without a time limit, as a natural part of your body. Over time, a mortal body begins to reject the demonic wings. Once after every 24 hours, the attuned owner has to succeed on a Constitution Saving Throw vs. DC 15, or gain one level of exhaustion. This will continue until the owner dies or removes the Lost Wings. The wings actively try to resist being removed. It requires a Strength check vs. DC 20 to rip them out. A failure results in 1d4 points of slashing damage for the attuned person. On a success, the owner has to succeed on a Constitution Saving Throw vs. DC 15 or suffer 2d6 points of slashing damage. A Remove Curse spell or a Greater Restoration spell can remove the wings without requiring a Strength check, and without inflicting damage. “Stop right there, for your own good!” Talva shouted. The thief was fast, quickened by the magic boots she stole, but Talva wasn’t just worried she’d escape. The winds on the balcony were strong. They were half-way up the main tower of the Arcanist Vault. The only way out was off the ledge - and that would require the thief to fly. The halfling woman in front of Talva turned around with a grin, flapping the red wings she had attached to her back. “These are mine now, and I’ll never give them back. Just as I’ll keep everything else in my bag here!” She raised the leather bag with all the stolen goods. “And that spray I used on you will keep you from casting any spells that can stop me!” Talva shook their head. “I don’t care about the items. If you leave now, you’ll die, because the wings -” “You can’t stop me!” The Halfling laughed as she interrupted Talva, and jumped off the ledge. The wizard sighed. The Arcanists would find her, they almost always do. But chances were high they’d find her dead. Talva would have happily given the halfling the other items if only she had left the wings behind.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 26136
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Arcane Items 1

