# Love Potion

**description**: Potion, Hag, Uncommon This potion is one of the oldest hag gifts that hags still know how to make. Drinking a hag love potion willingly is not an evil act. Giving this potion to an unwilling or unaware victim can be an evil act, depending on the situation and the DM. A love potion is one of those rare items made by hags that doesn’t look like they were made out of blood, gore, and muck. These potions are kept in lovely clear bottles of glass, usually adorned with anything that sparkles or pictures of hearts. This potion has two main uses and its effects change based on who the drinker is. Willing drinker. A willing drinker has usually purchased a love potion from a hag, who told them that the safest way to use it is to drink it around as many people as possible so that the potion has a larger group to choose from. Any male humanoid dumb enough to drink a love potion near a hag blacks out for three days and wakes up roughly 10 miles away with all of their belonings but an exhaustion level of 3. The hag will forever ignore that male and answer no questions about the lost time. As she gets closer to giving birth she will disappear into obscurity, usually surrounded by other hags, until the child is born. A willing drinker who drinks a potion with only one person within view will fall madly in love with that person. If they are lucky, the feelings will be reciprocated. Regardless this feeling will evaporate a month later unless the drinker drinks another love potion. If the person is unreceptive to the drinker’s love, then the drinker will need to make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw each day for a week. If the drinker fails a saving throw then the drinker will attempt to take the target of their affection by force, regardless of witnesses. This is considered a charm, and it can be dispelled by a 5th spell-level dispel magic, dispel evil and good, greater restoration, or wish spell. A person under the effect of this charm who is reduced to 0 hit points will wake up with no recollection of their actions. Unwilling drinker. The victim is either fed a hag love potion unwillingly or has had it slipped into their food and drink. Upon consuming the potion the victim makes a DC 15 Wisdom save, and upon success is completely unaffected by the potion and is immune to love potions for a year and a day. If the drinker fails their saving throw then the potion takes effect on the victim. They are now Love Drunk for the next seven days. A hag will often sell a cure to love drunk (she drugs the victim and locks them in a cage for a week). Love Drunk If any viable target of affection (humanoids will not be normally attracted to animals, some have a particular gender preference, etc.) is seen within 90 feet of the victim then the victim must make a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or fall madly in love with the target. Once a target has been determined the following saving throw must be made every day for a week if the target does not return the victim’s love. If the target of love drunk is the creature who forced the victim to drink a love potion, then the victim has disadvantage on the saving throw. Upon failing a saving throw the victim suffers from Short-term madness (see Dungeon Master’s Guide ) for 1d10 minutes. If at any point the victim has two failed saving throws during this week then they now suffer from Indefinite madness. This is considered a charm, and it can be dispelled by a 5th spell-level dispel magic , dispel evil and good , greater restoration , or wish spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Potion
- Item Rarity: Uncommon

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

