# Mace of Tiamat - Common

**description**: The power of Tiamat in the head of a mace. Lore Three of these maces were given to priests of the Cult of the Dragon, who were rewarded with great power if they proved themselves in battle. Location The three maces are in different locations. One is with its original Cult of the Dragon owner, though both are buried under 10-feet of dirt and rock due to a landslide caused during an incursion with a silver dragon. Another is safely kept in the treasure hoard of an adult copper dragon. The third is wielded by Graseeyha Houndstooth, a Dragonborn of Tiamat who has proven herself in battle. Encounter Ideas The Dig. Pervis Dulley, a gnome anthropologist and archaeologist (sage), and his ten teenage students (commoners) are digging near the location of the above-mentioned landslide. One of the students (a thin lad named Geoffrey) uncovers the weapon and is immediately thrown 20 feet into the air after touching it. Treasure Hunters. Either via combat or exploration, the adventurers obtain a Mace of Tiamat from an adult copper dragon named Xorthynovost. Knowing its power against good-aligned dragons, he does not relinquish the weapon easily. Dirty Chromatic Dragon Killers. If the adventurers have killed several chromatic dragons, Graseeyha Houndstooth is sent to rid the realm of the heroic dragon killers. She wields an Uncommon Mace of Tiamat. Progression The Mace of Tiamat progresses each time the attuned creature’s proficiency bonus increases. Statistics Weapon (Mace), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Warded. Any non-evil creature holding this magic weapon must make a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failure, the creature takes 2d10 force damage, drops the weapon, and is pushed 20-feet away. This magical warding cannot be dispelled. Dragon Heads. The weapon’s five Dragon Heads (black, blue, green, red, white) become active as it progresses in power. It begins with one active head, which you choose when you attune to the weapon. Dragon Breath. As part of your attack action, you may speak the weapon’s command word to release a breath weapon attack from one of the weapon’s activated heads. This breath weapon attack originates from the mace and travels in the direction of your attack. (The amount of damage and save DC depends on the progression of the weapon.) Black Dragon. The weapon produces acid in a 30-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, taking X acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Blue Dragon. The weapon produces lightning in a 30-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, taking X lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Green Dragon. The weapon produces poisonous gas in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw, taking X poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Red Dragon. The weapon produces fire in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, taking X fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. White Dragon. The weapon produces an icy blast in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, taking X cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Common The Dragon Breath of the Dragon Head you activated when you attuned to this weapon deals 2 damage of its specified type. Once used, you can’t use the Dragon Breath property again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 32138
- Item Type: Weapon (Mace)
- Item Rarity: common
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Mace of Tiamat

