# Machina Ex

**description**: Machina Ex Weapon (heavy rifle), epic (requires affinity by a humanoid) This circuitry-laden blaster rifle is the brainchild of Karto fel Jojari, a kesh artificer who fashioned the weapon after his ship and crew were decimated by the kanasi. Machina Ex has the stats of a heavy rifle without the burst fire or recoil properties. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this weapon. It has the following additional features. Collapsible. The weapon is fitted with a collapsible frame . Pulse Ammunition. The weapon fires electrical pulses from an integrated sorium micro-generator. It deals lightning damage instead of piercing. The rifle never runs out of ammunition. AI Slayer. When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with this weapon against an automaton, the automaton must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be destroyed. As the weapon specifically targets the internal programming of automatons, this feature does not affect constructs. Data Hacker. Machina Ex can use the spoof command power (rank 5 version, DC 17). It decides when to use this power and the power’s effects function as if the weapon had activated it. After using this feature, it can’t do so again for 24 hours. Additional Languages. While holding the weapon, you can speak and read ALOMU, Alphaline, and Keshian. Sentience. Machina Ex is a sentient chaotic neutral weapon with an Intelligence of 16, a Wisdom of 19, and a Charisma of 12. It has hearing, darkvision, and infravision out to a range of 120 feet, and blindsight out to a range of 20 feet. It can connect itself to the SIM and has a grade 5 firewall while connected. The weapon can speak, read, and understand Common, ALOMU, Alphaline, and Keshian. It can also communicate with its wielder telepathically. Its voice is deep, overlaid with a digitized timbre. While you have affinity with it, Machina Ex also understands every language you know. Personality. Machina Ex speaks in a friendly, if deadpan digital voice. It often makes subtle attempts at humor which, due to its manner of speech, can be easily misconstrued. The weapon’s primary goal is the destruction of the kanasi, as it harbors the personal resentment of its creator. It completely loses its friendly disposition in any scenario involving the kanasi. This attitude extends to other self-aware machines as well, particularly those with above-average intelligence, such as the machina and some mecharoids. Considering the weapon’s very nature, the irony of its antipathy toward intelligent machines is not lost on it. It mentions this with humored sarcasm to prevent itself from falling into bouts of self-loathing.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Item Rarity: epic

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Master Technician's Guide

