# Mage Hunter's Armor (Level 9)

**description**: This elaborate gold breastplate is backed with supple leather. Elaborate magical runes and symbols are worked prominently into the metal. Ventu the Tall was responsible for one of the most infamous events in history. Ventu was a follower of a fringe religious order which believed all the world’s ills stemmed from magic not granted by a deity. The order claimed that wizards, sorcerers, and their ilk were to blame for all the evil in the land as that magic was tainted by human hands rather than gifted by divine ones. Lord Ventu held tremendous sway in the kingdom, and he brought that considerable power to bear on his self-appointed mission of wiping out every last practitioner of magic in the land who wielded magic without the blessing of a deity. Thus began the Purge Arcana . To carry out the Purge Arcana , Ventu needed loyal warriors who could seek out and destroy practitioners of the arcane arts. To this end, he assembled a squad of like-minded zealots, and he outfitted them with breastplates enchanted by priests of his deity to neutralize magic and aid in killing those that wielded it. For years, Ventu’s Mage Hunters scoured his kingdom, killing anyone who dared to practice magic. It was a dark and dangerous time, filled with fear and paranoia. Over time, Ventu grew increasingly paranoid, and his actions became more and more bizarre. Eventually, he decided that even his own Mage Hunters had become tainted by prolonged contact with the very magic that they were tasked to destroy. He summoned his most loyal soldiers and ordered them to round up and murder the Mage Hunters. For the Mage Hunters, it was the final straw. Many fled the kingdom in fear, but a few banded together and stormed Ventu’s fortress. They killed the mad zealot then looked on his lifeless body in shocked disbelief. The Mage Hunters were appalled at what they had done, but they were even more appalled at what had transpired in the kingdom. It was as if Ventu had woven a spell on everyone and, now that he was dead, the spell was broken. The Mage Hunters disbanded. Most renounced what they had done and destroyed their magical breastplates. Most, but not all… Armor (breastplate), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) When a creature within 5 feet of you casts a spell while you are wearing this armor, you can use a reaction to make one melee weapon attack against that creature. Mage Hunter (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. When you fail a saving throw against a spell that targets only you, you can use your reaction to succeed on that saving throw instead. Once used, the armor can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC, and you can now use this armor’s 5th-level property up to two times before the next dawn. In addition, you have advantage on saving throws against spells that target only you. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1, and you can now use this armor’s 5th-level property up to three times before the next dawn. In addition, you have advantage on saving throws against all spells. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. In addition, if you roll a 20 on a saving throw against a spell that targets only you and the spell is 7th level or lower, the spell has no effect on you and instead targets the caster, using the slot level, spell save DC, attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the caster.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Medium Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement by a spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

