# Maiden's Osteosymbiosis

**description**: Maiden's Osteosymbiosis Trick weapon (special), very rare (requires attunement) Head and spine severed from a Cloistered Maiden, the first wielder of this accursed weapon was considered insane, even amongst madmen—after all, the difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits. To control the osteosymbiosis, one must fuse their arm to the bony corpse of an abomination of nature and pray that the gods won’t punish this crime against creation. Attunement. When you attune to this item, the warm, still moving spine merges with the bones in your arm and replaces them. Bones consumed in this way do not reappear when you unattune from the item. You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, and it has the Bone Explosion property. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In its untransformed state, the osteosymbiosis is embedded in your flesh, with spikes protruding from your knuckles, changing your unarmed strikes. In its transformed state, it generates a weapon made of bones. When it transforms, roll a d8 to determine the weapon’s type, according to the table below. You are proficient with all the forms of this weapon. D8 WEAPON 1 Battleaxe 2 Maul 3 Lance 4 Longsword 5 Rapier 6 Flail 7 Whip 8 Pike Untransformed. Your unarmed attacks deal an extra 1d8 piercing damage. Once on each of your turns when you hit a target with an unarmed strike, you can rupture the bone spikes that grow from your hands, leaving them embedded in your prey. You deal an extra 1d4 piercing damage to your target and it gains 1 bone shard. Your bone protrusions regrow immediately. Transformed. Your attacks with this weapon deal an extra 1d4 slashing damage and score critical hits on a roll of 19 or 20. Further, the osseous nature of this armament renders it frail. If you score a critical hit against a creature, the weapon breaks upon the target's flesh, dealing an extra 4d4 piercing damage, and the target gains 4 bone shards. The weapon then reverts to its untransformed state. Bone Explosion. As a bonus action, you can detonate all the bone shards embedded in one of your prey. If the target is dead, the shards fail to detonate. Each creature other than you within 15 feet of the target must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 1d4 piercing damage for each bone shard that detonated. On a success, it takes half as much damage. The bone shards shatter into dust and disappear. A creature with more than 2 bone shards embedded in its body has disadvantage on this saving throw. Maiden’s Curse: While attuned to this weapon, when a Blood Moon of Rebirth rises, the maiden’s curse awakens and spreads to its owner. You must make a Wisdom saving throw against the Madness DC of the moon. If your character has a womb—or has ever had a womb in their body—on a failure, the weapon merges with you completely and you turn into a Cloistered Maiden under the GM’s control. If you never had a womb, on a failure, instead of transforming, you die. *Roll20 Note: The damage populated by this attack is extra damage. To represent each of the weapon types, drag their +2 forms into the character sheet.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

