# Markum's Glaive (Level 9)

**description**: The shaft of this glaive is made from a single, long piece of driftwood. The head is forged from mithril with a stylized sea horse etched into each side. Lord Markum loved standing on the battlements of his keep by the sea. One morning, Lord Makum noticed the bruised body of a mermaid lying on the rocks below. He hurried down and discovered she was unconscious but alive. Markum gently carried her into the keep and did what he could for her until the healers arrived. When the beautiful mermaid’s eyes finally fluttered open, Lord Markum fell deeply and hopelessly in love. The mermaid explained that her people were suffering relentless attacks from a tribe of sahuagin. The mermaid had been wounded during the last raid and had washed upon the rocks near Lord Markum’s keep. Markum was desperate to help. He was a powerful warrior, but he could not simply hold his breath and wade into the sea with his plate mail and great sword. He called for his oldest and most trusted advisor, the wizard Pelgroth. Together, Markum, a skilled weapon smith, and Pelgroth, an accomplished magic crafter, set out to even the odds. The result was a mighty glaive enchanted with powerful water magic. Markum lifted the great weapon and felt the power of the sea rise inside him. They swam at once into the deep until they came to the merfolk’s glittering, coral city. When the next raid occurred, Markum battled the sahuagin relentlessly and rallied the merfolk warriors, pressing on until every sahuagin was slain. Now a hero to the merfolk, Markum and the mermaid were soon married. From that day onward, Lord Markum fought alongside the merfolk, until the terrible day he was slain by a powerful four-armed sahuagin, who took Markum’s glaive as a battle trophy. It’s said that sahuagin still has it to this day. Weapon (glaive), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) Weapon (glaive), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wielding this glaive, you can use an action to cast the dominate beast spell (save DC 15) from it on a beast that has an innate swimming speed. Once used, the glaive can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. Seafarer (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wielding the glaive. 5th level. You can breathe underwater, and you have a swimming speed of 60 feet. In addition, you have resistance to cold damage, and you and anything you are wearing or carrying can tolerate temperatures as low as -50 degrees Fahrenheit. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this magic weapon. In addition, you can use an action to cast the water breathing spell from the glaive. Once used, the glaive can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 13th level. You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this glaive, instead of +1. In addition, when you hit an evil humanoid that has an innate swimming speed, such as a sahuagin, with this glaive, the humanoid takes an extra 2d6 slashing damage. 17th level. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this glaive, instead of +2. In addition, you can now cast the dominate beast spell (save DC 17) from the glaive at will on a beast that has an innate swimming speed. You can have only one beast dominated at a time. If you dominate another, the spell on the previous target ends.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

