# Matched Blades of the Eternal Feudalists (Clive's Cacophony)

**description**: This matched set of dueling swords exude wealth and expert craftsmanship. Songbirds decorate the blade of one sword, while a rising sun gleams on the blade of the other. Over two centuries ago, two young, wealthy aristocrats agreed to a duel over a matter so trivial, it has long since been forgotten. The two men, Sir Clive Dumfry and Lord Ivor Arron, had vast wealth and properties, but both fancied themselves the finest duelist in the world. When they fought, it was as celebrities. However, so perfectly matched were they that their duel ended in a draw. Then a rematch. And re-rematch. And so it continued for decades, until each man’s skill and senses began to fail. At that point, caring about nothing but the duel, each commissioned a particular sword to overcome their fading senses; Sir Clive’s hearing loss, and Lord Ivor’s dimming eyesight. Sir Clive was convinced he could duel if he could but hear the blows land and blocks asserted. Lord Ivor knew he could duel if he could but see the clash of blades. Legend has it that they didn’t really want to kill each other, but in the end, old age came for them both, leaving their weapons to fate. Weapon (scimitar), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) These paired scimitars are each named and engraved with unique symbols. The blade engraved with songbirds is a magic sword known as Clive’s cacophony , and the blade engraved with a rising sun is a magic sword known as Ivor’s illumination . When you hit a target with Clive’s cacophony , the target takes an extra 1d4 thunder damage as the blade produces a clang, scrape, or other sound of metal-on-metal, like those made when blades clash. When you hit a target with Ivor’s illumination , the target takes an extra 1d4 radiant damage as the blade produces small sparks and flashes, like those made when blades clash. Matched Blades (Requires Attunement). You must have both Clive’s cacophony and Ivor’s illumination to attune to the weapons. You attune to the two swords as if they were one item. As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wielding theses swords. 5th level. When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with either weapon, the target is deafened ( Clive’s cacophony ) or blinded ( Ivor’s illumination ) for 1 minute. A blinded or deafened creature can make a Constitution saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success. In addition, you have advantage on saving throws against being blinded or deafened. 9th level. The extra thunder and radiant damage you deal with each sword increases to 2d6. 13th level. When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with either weapon, each creature within 10 feet of the target is also deafened ( Clive’s cacophony ) or blinded ( Ivor’s illumination ) for 1 minute. A blinded or deafened creature can make a Constitution saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success. In addition, you have immunity to the blinded and deafened conditions. 17th level. When you hit a target with either weapon, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) or be deafened ( Clive’s cacophony ) or blinded ( Ivor’s illumination ) for 1 minute. In addition, when you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with either weapon against a target that is already deafened or blinded, the target becomes blinded and deafened permanently. This blindness and deafness can be ended only by a heal or wish spell.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Finesse, Light
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

