# Matryoshka Dolls

**description**: Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) This antique set of four nesting dolls is colorfully painted though a bit worn from the years. When attuning to this item, you must give each doll a name, which acts as a command word to activate its properties. You must be within 30 feet of a doll to activate it. The dolls have a combined total of 5 charges, and the dolls regain all expended charges daily at dawn. The largest doll is lined with a thin sheet of lead. A spell or other effect that can sense the presence of magic, such as detect magic , reveals only the transmutation magic of the largest doll, and not any of the dolls or other small items that may be contained within it. The Mischievous Doll. The first and largest doll has a mischievous, winking face. As an action, you can speak the doll’s name and expend 1 charge. The three smaller dolls fly back and nestle into the largest, as long as they are untethered and within 30 feet of it. A creature attempting to grab one of the smaller dolls as it is called must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. The Jolly Doll. The second doll has a jolly upside-down face. As an action, you can speak the doll’s name and expend 1 charge to befuddle nearby humanoids. Each humanoid within 15 feet of the doll and that can see it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or the world seems off-kilter to it for 1 minute or until it can no longer see the doll. When a befuddled creature makes an attack, it has a 50 percent chance of targeting a nearby space instead of its target. After the attack roll is made, roll percentile dice to determine where the hit occurred. On a result of 50-100, the creature hits the intended target. On a result of 25-50, the creature hits the space 5 feet to the right of the intended target. On a result of 1-25, the target hits the space 5 feet to the left of the intended target. At the GM’s discretion, a befuddled creature’s hits in nearby spaces might strike creatures or objects in those spaces. The Growling Doll. The third doll has a growling face with tiny, engraved teeth. As an action, you can speak the doll’s name and expend 1 charge to command it to bite a creature that is holding or carrying it. The doll makes its attack roll with a +8 bonus. On a hit, the target takes 2d4 piercing damage, and the doll attaches to the target for 1 minute, until detached, or until you command it to detach. While the doll is attached, you can use a bonus action on each of your turns to command the doll to chomp down on the target, dealing 1d4 piercing damage to the target. Commanding the attached doll in this way doesn’t expend extra charges. A creature, including the target, can use its action to detach the doll. The Cutest Doll. The smallest doll has the cutest, little, smiling face. As an action, you can speak the doll’s name and expend 1 charge to captivate nearby humanoids. Each humanoid within 15 feet of the doll and that can see it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to perceive any creature or object other than the doll for 1 minute. The spell ends early if a target can no longer see the doll. If a target takes damage, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

