# Messenger Flame

**description**: The Messenger Flame is not unsimilar to a golem, but based on fire elemental magic. The small construct has no soul, but a relatively high intelligence. In the large cities of the Ember Wastelands with their high towers, these intelligent items are used to quickly deliver messages. They are about one foot tall. Each Messenger Flame is created specifically for an individual owner, a family or an organization. A burning rune floating above its head shows who owns the Flame. The item knows its owner or owners extremely well, and only accepts tasks from them. Trying to fool a Messenger Flame into thinking you are its owner requires a near-perfect disguise and a deception check. The DC for both disguise and deception is 20, and failing one of the checks means the Messenger Flame sees through your attempt to fool it. It will then try its best to warn its real owner, and might even call for help. The construct has a Hover Speed of 120 ft. With an Intelligence Score of 14, it is smart enough to deduce necessary information for a message. It also has a general understanding of how the owner or owners want to communicate, what information should be kept secret and who the obvious enemies or allies are. It also truly tries to understand (and follow) its owner’s true intention when delivering a message, not just following the literal commands. The Messenger Flame is capable of not only delivering the message, but also allows follow-up questions (if it believes it’s safe to answer - otherwise it will just state it doesn't have the specific information). They are also capable of guiding the target of its delivery to a location it knows. Its owner can ask the Messenger Flame any details of what it has seen or heard in the last 24 hours - which is why these constructs are occasionally used as spies, as well. A Messenger Flame has the following immunities: charmed, exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned as well as fire damage and bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks. It has 1 HD, and 5 hp (1d8+1). A Messenger Flame that gets destroyed bursts up in a five feet wide ball of flame, inflicting 2d8+2 fire damage to anyone in the area. Since it is essentially a moving, talking fire, the Messenger Flame constantly emits a light similar to a torch. When ordering a Messenger Flame, the future owner can decide what its voice will sound like. It is always mixed with the sound of crackling fire, though. In many areas of the Ember Wastelands, owning one or more Messenger Flames is seen as a status symbol. Lori looked out for the messenger her future employer promised to send. He knew who she was, but she had no idea who would come to get her. She made eye contact with almost every person that passed her, a situation that made her highly uncomfortable after a while. Suddenly, she noticed something rushing at her. She turned around, and what she saw was a small fireball directed at her! Within the blink of an eye, a thousand thoughts rushed through her mind. Who would attack her, during daylight, in the middle of a city? Why did no one else get scared? How was she supposed to get away? Her muscles strained, and she was ready to jump aside, when the flame suddenly stopped. Only a foot away from her, the fire hovered in the air. Only now Lori noticed this thing had a face, and arms. "Lori the Mercenary, welcome to the city of Sharloc's Trade," the thing said with a friendly voice, mixed with the sound of crackling fire. "My master awaits you. Please accompany me. If you have any questions in advance, I am here to answer them."

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 17295
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Properties:  Immunities: Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned as well as fire damage and bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical Attacks.
It has 1 HD, and 5 hp (1d8+1). A Messenger Flame that gets destroyed bursts up in a five feet wide ball of flame, inflicting 2d8+2 fire damage to anyone in the area.
- Item Rarity: rare

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Shattered Realities

