# Mizzen’s Guide to the Unseen

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) Mizzen’s Guide to the Unseen is a study of spirits and other supernatural beings that dwell beyond material reality. The bearer of this fabled grimoire is gifted with heightened perception and armed with knowledge about the invisible forces that govern the cosmos. While holding the book, you can use it as a spellcasting focus for your spells, and it functions as a spellbook for you. Additionally, while the book is on your person, you have advantage on saving throws made to resist becoming charmed or possessed. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: detect evil and good, varina’s virtuous valediction* 2nd level: see invisibility, spirit balm* 3rd level: apparition’s invitation*, spirit guardians 4th level: divination, unnatural causes* 5th level: vengeful spirits* 6th level: true seeing 7th level: etherealness Mizzen’s Guide (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. 5th level. Whenever you cast a spell like detect magic, clairvoyance, or any similar spell that has an ongoing effect on your senses, the duration of that spell’s effect is doubled. 9th level. Once per long rest, you can use an action to ask the spirits that dwell within the grimoire a single question. The answer to the question is a one-word answer, such as “yes,” “no,” “maybe,” “never,” “irrelevant,” or “unclear” (if the spirits don’t know the answer to the question). There is a 10-percent chance that the grimoire answers with a lie (and the GM secretly makes this roll each time a question is asked). 13th level. Continued contact with the book has opened your mind to the universal language of the cosmos. You understand any language you hear, and creatures can understand anything you say regardless of the language you use, as long as they speak at least one language. 17th level. You can see invisible creatures and objects within 30 feet of you that are within line of sight. You can also see into the Ethereal Plane within the same distance. Quirks of Mizzen’s Guide to the Unseen. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of Mizzen’s Guide to the Unseen table. Quirks of Mizzen’s Guide to the Unseen d8 Result 1 You have a bad habit of answering questions with questions. 2 You see conspiracies behind everything, even the most innocent of subjects. 3 You are prone to hyperfocusing on a specific topic and can’t help talking about it. 4 You thrive on gossip and compulsively snoop around in other people’s business. 5 You feel compelled to leave coded or cryptic messages for others in public places. 6 You often get swept up in the emotion of the moment, and even the smallest of events can move you to tears. 7 You have a hard time accepting “facts” that most people assume to be true. 8 You have a knack for stumbling across haunted places and objects—or rather, places and objects that you think are haunted

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

