# Monarch Battleaxe

**description**: Never underestimate the power of butterflies. Legend The Monarch Batteaxe was created by Ipstein Havelfoot, a gnome with a fondness for butterflies. Ipstein was both a druid and a fighter, and tales of him and his magnificent battleaxe are told around the realm by scholars and bards alike. Isptein’s and the battleaxe’s whereabouts are unknown; however, many rumors flow from the mouths of bards in music, poetry, and story. Ipstein the Purple is a poem about how Ipstein’s last usage of the battleaxe permanently transformed him into a purple dragon. With Monarch’s Wings is a song with lyrics describing a purple, butterfly-winged Ipstein ascending to the heavens after perishing in battle. Ipstein the Tyrant is a story about how Ipstein’s use of magic eventually turned him into an evil creature—one who secretly rules and commands insectoid horrors from a hidden lair. Location In truth, Ipstein did perish in battle, but he did not ascend to the heavens on purple butterfly wings. He and his adventuring companions died while battling an evil cleric in her subterranean temple. The malevolent magic within the dungeon imprisoned Ipstein’s soul. Encounter Ideas Evil Lair. The adventures trek through the foul cleric’s underground temple which is filled with skeletons , zombies , and other undead creatures. While searching, they find an animated Ipstein wielding the axe in defense of the temple. Grave Robbers. Grave robbers are disturbing a nearby settlement. One of these unlawful humanoids wields Monarch Batleaxe. Magical Wares. A local merchant displays the beautiful axe in a window or at a fair. They have had trouble selling the item as many fighters believe it looks too fragile to be effective. Progression The Monarch Battleaxe progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. Statistics Weapon (Battleaxe), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Druids are proficient with the Monarch Battleaxe. Summon Butterflies. While holding this weapon, you can speak a command word as a bonus action to summon 12 Tiny purple butterflies which flutter around the axe head for 1 hour. Each butterfly has AC 10, 1 hit point, and automatically fails saving throws. While at least one butterfly remains, the weapon emits a purple glow, creating bright light in a 10-foot radius, and dim light for an additional 10 feet. Once you have summoned butterflies, you can’t do so again until you finish a long rest. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Butterfly Burst. When you hit with an attack using this weapon, you can expend up to 6 of your summoned butterflies to deal additional radiant damage to the target equal to the number of butterflies expended. Expended butterflies are destroyed. Rare . The number of summoned butterflies increases to 18. Monarch Wings. You can use a bonus action to expend up to 6 butterflies to cause spectral, purple butterfly wings to sprout from your back, giving you a fly speed equal to 5 times the number of butterflies expended. The wings remain for 1 hour, or until you use a bonus action to end the effect. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the number of summoned butterflies increases to 24. The battleaxe deals an additional 1d8 radiant damage on a hit. Wrapped in Wings. As a bonus action, you can command 12 butterflies to swarm a creature within 60 feet of you that you can see. While swarmed this way, attacks against the creature have advantage. Any remaining butterflies return to the axe head if the creature is reduced to 0 hit points. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the additional radiant damage increases to 2d8. Monarch Form. As a bonus action, you can expend 18 butterflies to polymorph into a giant purple monarch butterfly for 1 hour (no concentration required). While in this form you have the statistics of a young black dragon , but your creature type is Fey, your attacks and abilities that deal acid damage deal radiant damage instead, and your acid damage immunity is replaced with immunity to radiant damage.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (battleaxe)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

