# Moongold Equalizer (Rifle)

**description**: Moongold Equalizer (Rifle) Trick weapon (flintlock, rifle), rare This weapon, crafted with moongold, gives you a 1d4 bonus to damage rolls against nonhumanoid creatures. Moongold acts as a guiding light in the darkness; creatures holding or wearing moongold have advantage on saving throws against being frightened and madness. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can magically melt the moongold before solidifying it, switching between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In its untransformed state, the equalizer is a flintlock. In its transformed state, the weapon is an ornate, two-handed weapon; a rifle. Untransformed. This flintlock has the Barrel 2 (F) property. In addition, being within 5 feet of a hostile creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on your ranged attack rolls with this flintlock. Transformed. When you attack with this weapon, you can choose to replace your attack with a particularly violent shot. Make a ranged weapon attack. On a hit, the target takes the weapon’s damage plus an extra 2d8 piercing damage. Hit or miss, this causes the weapon to partially liquefy and turn back into its untransformed state; it can’t be transformed again until the end of your next turn. You can use this attack only if you haven’t moved during this turn, and after you use this attack, your speed is 0 until the end of your turn. *Roll20 Note: Add the Moongold Equalizer (Flintlock) to your sheet for full functionality. Firearms. Firearms were created out of a dire need to fight the scourge. They all include silver in their construction, and as such, the projectiles they fire are considered silvered for the purposes of overcoming resistances and immunities. Some firearm and ammunition properties require your target to make a saving throw to avoid the effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Firearm save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier Ammunition. The ammunition of a firearm is destroyed upon use. Barrel. The weapon can be fired a number of times equal to the number of bullets its barrel can hold (written as Barrel X) before it must be reloaded according to its fast or slow reload property (F or S, respectively). Slow reload. You must use an attack or an action to reload this firearm. You must have one free hand to do so. Blaring. Firing this weapon makes a thunderous crack. The sound can be heard from up to 100 feet away. Firing a weapon with this property makes it hard to go undetected; you have disadvantage on Stealth checks to hide until the start of your next turn. In addition, if a creature is within the area of the sound blast, it has advantage on Perception checks against you. Twinned Barrel. This weapon has two barrels that can each hold a bullet and can both be loaded as part of reloading the weapon. You can fire both barrels of a double barrel weapon as part of an attack, instead of each barrel individually. Doing so empties the barrel of the weapon (as per the Barrel property) but increases the damage die of the weapon on a hit (from d4 to d6 to d8 to d10 to d12). Steady. A weapon with this property can be stabilized for greater accuracy. As a bonus action, you give yourself a bonus to your next attack roll with this weapon this turn equal to your proficiency bonus, and attacking at long range doesn’t impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You can use this bonus action only if you haven’t moved during your turn, and after you use the bonus action, your speed is halved until the end of your turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Ammunition (range 120/240), Artillery, Barrel 2 (S), Blaring, Steady, Twinned Barrel, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: rare 

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

