# Morning Star (legendary variant)

**description**: Eclipse, the Moon and Stars Item Set. When the magics of morning star and evening moon become intertwined through attunement to a single wielder, their innate dunamantic magics coalesce to create a miniature solar system. While you are attuned to both morning star and evening moon, you gain the following benefits: The attack and damage bonus of each weapon increases by 1, to a maximum of +3. You can use the Orbit and Eclipse properties, described below. Orbit. While holding both evening moon and morning star, you can use a bonus action to cause evening moon to begin orbiting you. As part of this bonus action, and as a bonus action on subsequent turns for as long as it remains in orbit, you can make one attack with evening moon against any creature within 15 feet of you. Evening moon orbits you at a distance of two feet, and while in orbit, you can’t use it to attack except with this property. You can catch evening moon (no action required) at any point. A creature within 5 feet of you can use its action to make a DC 21 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check, catching evening moon on a success or taking 1d6 slashing damage on a failure. Eclipse. As a bonus action while evening moon is orbiting you, you can cause it to hover in front of you instead, casting you in a dark obscuring light and granting you the benefits of the blur spell for 1 minute, or until you catch it or make an attack with it. Once this property of the set has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn. Morning Star Weapon (morningstar), rare (requires attunement) Component: elemental core of fire Within these four, free-floating, ever-moving, gyroscopic rings is contained the source of morning star’s power: a ball of fusion; a miniaturised star. A creature attuned to the weapon can induce tiny solar flares that can blind or burn those in its path. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Dawn. As an action, you can cause morning star to shine a gloriously bright light at all creatures within a 20-foot cone. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become blinded for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once this property of the weapon has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn. Ultraviolet. After you use the Dawn property, but before it can be used again at the next dawn, you can use an action to cause morning star to shine a focussed beam of ultraviolet light in a 5-foot-wide, 50-foot-long line. Each creature in the area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 radiant damage on a failure, or half as much damage on a success. Once this property of the weapon has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn. Uncommon variant: Remove the attack and damage bonus. Reduce the DCs to 13, the area of the Dawn property to a 15-foot cone, the area of the Ultraviolet property to a 5-foot-wide, 30-foot-long line, and the damage to 4d6. Very rare variant: Increase the DCs to 16, the area of the Dawn property to a 30-foot cone, the area of the Ultraviolet property to a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long line, and the damage to 12d6. While holding this item, you can cast the light cantrip at will. Legendary variant: Increase the attack and damage bonus to +2, the DCs to 17, the area of the Dawn property to a 40-foot cone, the area of the Ultraviolet property to a 5-foot-wide, 100-foot-long line, and the damage to 12d6. While holding this item, you can cast the light cantrip at will and the daylight spell. Once this weapon has been used to cast daylight, it can’t be used to cast it again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (morningstar)
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

