# Moustache

**description**: Whether you need to quickly change your appearance, or sneak a weapon into a party, nothing beats a moustache. Legend The gnomish spy Wemmar Phimmestdoodle was famed for his quick-change disguises and daring do. An expert archer, his most prized possession was Moustache ; part shortbow, part sweet handlebar facial affectation. Location Wemmar supposedly died during a mission to save the gnomish kingdom and was lain to rest with his trademark moustache on his lip. His crypt is located in the capital, in a well-manicured park popular with tourists and picnickers. Encounter Ideas Six Feet Undercover. In truth, the spy is using his death as a cover while searching out a mole in the government. With no one to trust and nowhere to turn, he needs allies. Dead, Yet Alive! Wemmar died, but has risen as a ghoul, complete with handlebar moustache. Catch That Stache! Wemmar’s intelligence allies buried him with a fake moustache since his weapon was looted at his death. Unwilling to let the dastardly mole get away with murder, they are looking for specialists to hunt them down. Progression Moustache progresses each time the creature who is attuned to it completes an audacious plan, heist, or scheme (what satisfies this definition is at the GM’s discretion). Statistics Weapon (Shortbow), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . As a bonus action, you place the bow against your upper lip, shrinking it to the size and form of a handlebar moustache, which magically attaches to your face. While in moustache form, it can’t be used as a weapon. It can be removed and returned to shortbow form as a bonus action. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. You also gain proficiency with a disguise kit while attuned to this weapon. If you already have proficiency, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any check that uses a disguise kit. Rare . Forceful Follicles. As an action, you can utter the command word while pretending to fire an arrow at a creature. The target’s facial hair grows excessively long and wraps around its body. If the target has no facial hair, it sprouts some for the duration. Any hair cut or burned away regrows instantly. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be restrained by the hair for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. The excess hair falls away when the effect ends or when the target succeeds on a saving throw. You can use this property three times, and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the save DC for Forceful Follicles increases to 16. Play Dead. When you are reduced to 0 hit points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 hit point instead and appear dead to any onlookers until the start of your next turn. A creature succeeding on a DC 20 Wisdom (Medicine) check determines you are not actually dead. While in this state, you are fully aware of your surroundings and can see through your closed eyelids. If you move or speak, the deception is instantly revealed. Once this property has been used, it can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the save DC for Forceful Follicles increases to 17. In addition, you can cast polymorph on yourself (no concentration required). Once the spell is cast, it can’t be cast this way again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (shortbow)
- Properties: Ammunition, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

