# Net of Bloodletting

**description**: Net of Bloodletting Ranged weapon (martial, net), very rare (requires attunement) When you make an attack with this weapon, you can choose to take necrotic damage up to half your level and reduce your hit point maximum by the same amount. This necrotic damage can’t be reduced or prevented in any way. If you take necrotic damage this way, the damage roll of the attack gains a bonus equal to double the amount of necrotic damage you took. You must choose to take the necrotic damage before you make the attack roll. You can’t use this effect if there is an effect that prevents your hit point maximum from being reduced, such as the aura of life spell. When you reduce your hit point maximum this way, your hit point maximum can’t be restored to its normal value or increased until you finish a long rest, at which point it is restored to your normal hit point maximum. The first time you hit a creature with this weapon each turn, it begins to bleed profusely. At the start of its next turn, it takes 1d8 necrotic damage and its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage it takes. At the end of each of its turns, the creature can make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, ending the ongoing necrotic damage on a success. Creatures without blood, or that don’t rely on blood to survive (such as undead and most constructs) are immune to this effect. Net. A Large or smaller creature hit by a net is restrained until it is freed. A net has no effect on creatures that are formless, or creatures that are Huge or larger. A creature can use its action to make a DC 10 Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within its reach on a success. Dealing 5 slashing damage to the net (AC 10) also frees the creature without harming it, ending the effect and destroying the net. When you use an action, bonus action, or reaction to attack with a net, you can make only one attack regardless of the number of attacks you can normally make. Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged attack has a range in parentheses after the ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal range in feet, and the second indicates the weapon’s long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t attack a target beyond the weapon’s long range. Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength, but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the finesse property. Properties: Range, Thrown Range: 5/15 Weight: 3

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Special, Thrown
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

