# Oak Heart Figurine

**description**: This dense, charred wooden figurine smells slightly of smoke. It has been carved into the highly detailed likeness of a treant. The druid Ruatha lived long ago in a deep forest near a wide stream at the base of a large hillock. He had been raised by an ancient treant known as Oak Heart. The treant was teacher, mentor, friend, and protector to the young druid—together, the two tended the forest and all that lived within it. Late one night, a sudden storm crashed across the sky. Ruatha watched as lightning lit up the night sky. Seconds later, he saw a flickering, yellow-orange haze in the distance then a cloud of smoke. Forest fire! Ruatha rushed through the forest, shouting for the animals to run toward the safety of the stream. Ruatha could hear the deep, rumbling voice of Oak Heart in the distance, rousing the trees of the forest. Through the confusion and smoke, panicked forest animals ran from the flames, and trees lumbered past Ruatha. After what seemed a lifetime, the singed and soot-covered druid finally dropped to his knees on the far side of the stream. Glancing around quickly, the exhausted druid was relieved to see that most of the forest animals had made it to safety, as had many of the trees. They were already re-rooting themselves into the ground and becoming still again. Coughing uncontrollably, the exhausted young druid collapsed on the ground. Ruatha’s eyes flickered open. It was dawn and the storm was over. On the far side of the stream, Ruatha could see the devastation left behind by the forest fire. As far as the eye could see, the ground was black and burned. Ruatha noticed a large, still shape in the distance, near a group of smoldering tree trunks. His heart sank—it was Oak Heart. The druid transformed into a hawk and soared to his friend. Oak Heart was dead, his bark blackened and charred. The ancient treant had died trying to save every last tree he could. Devastated, Ruatha slowly cut into the burned remains of his friend and carefully removed the heartwood. He fashioned the wood into the likeness of his friend and mentor and carried it with him for the remainder of his days. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While holding the pocket-sized figurine, you can cast the druidcraft spell from it at will. Forest Keeper (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while holding the figurine. 5th level. You have resistance to fire damage. In addition, you can use an action to cast the barkskin spell from it but can target only yourself when you do so. Once used, the figurine can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 9th level. If you use an action to speak the command word and throw the figurine to a point on the ground within 60 feet of you, the figurine becomes an awakened tree with resistance to fire damage, instead of vulnerability to it. If the space where the tree would appear is occupied by other creatures or objects, or if there isn’t enough space for the tree, the figurine doesn’t become a tree. The tree is friendly to you and your companions. It understands your languages and obeys your spoken commands. If you issue no commands, the tree defends itself but takes no other actions. It lasts for up to 6 hours. At the end of the duration, it reverts to its figurine form. It reverts early if it drops to 0 hit points or if you use an action to speak the command word again while touching it. Once it has been used to become an awakened tree, the figurine can’t be used in this way again until 3 days have passed. 13th Level. You can use an action to cast the tree stride spell from the figurine. Once used, the figurine can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 17th level. When you use the figurine’s 9th-level property, the figurine now becomes a treant instead of an awakened tree. In addition, the treant has resistance to fire damage, instead of vulnerability to it.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

