# Ol' Reliable

**description**: “Would you look at the time? I guess I’ve been tinkering with Ol’ Reliable all afternoon. Can you pass me that wrench… umm… friend.” —Clara Ironcaster Legend Ol’ Reliable is a masterwork crossbow with a sinister curse. Its wielder feels compelled to spend their time tinkering with it, eking out the tiniest improvements. When they pry themselves away from it, they find they have lost track of the time, and perhaps a precious memory to boot. Fittingly, the identity of Ol’ Reliable’s inventor has been forgotten, but so many hands have worked on it since that it could scarcely be described as the same object as the original. Location Clara Ironcaster, a renowned blacksmith, keeps the insidious crossbow in her workshop. Encounter Ideas Forgotten Job. Clara hires the party to kill a monster and bring her materials from its corpse. When they return, she swears not to remember the party. Her apprentice mentions that Clara’s memory has been getting worse since she started spending long nights working on a new crossbow, and quietly suggests that the party steal it as compensation for the job. Cruel Intentions. Melody, a fortune teller and secret night hag , hires the party to retrieve Ol’ Reliable (without mentioning its curse). She plans to gift it to someone that slighted her but would be equally delighted if a character keeps it and becomes cursed themselves. Puzzling Postmortem. The party finds a corpse that appears to have died of asphyxiation but shows no signs of struggle or illness. The corpse clutches the crossbow in a death grip. Progression Ol’ Reliable progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature gains an ability score improvement, the weapon’s rarity increases. Statistics Weapon (Light Crossbow), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . This magic crossbow lacks the loading property. Curse. The weapon is cursed and becoming attuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the weapon. Whenever you attempt to take a long rest while attuned to this weapon, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or spend the rest tinkering with Ol’ Reliable to the exclusion of all other activities (including sleep). As such, you don’t gain the benefits of a long rest. At the end of the 8 hours, roll on the Memory Forgotten table and lose the resulting memory. You are unaware that the memory is gone, and it can only be restored with the wish spell or similar magic. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this weapon. Rare . The weapon’s damage die increases to a d10. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Legendary . The weapon’s damage die increases to a d12. Memory Forgotten Table d100 Memory Forgotten 1–10 The name of a person unimportant to you. 11–20 The face of a business acquaintance. 21–30 A taste or smell that brings you joy. 31–40 How to navigate a place you visit often. 41–50 The steps to a task you perform daily. 51–60 A treasured moment from your childhood. 61–70 A fact important to your profession. 71–80 Where you stored something important. 81–90 Everything about a departed loved one. 91–93 Proficiency in a random skill. 94–96 Proficiency in a random weapon. 97–99 Proficiency in a random saving throw. 100 You forget how to breathe and begin suffocating. If you die, you remember how to breathe if you are later restored to life.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (light crossbow)
- Properties: Ammunition, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

