# Optimum Prime Focus

**description**: Prime Focus Focus, varies (requires affinity by a channeler) This focus has 7 charges. While holding it, you can use an action and spend 1 of its charges to activate distortion or phase step with it using your power save DC and esper ability modifier. The focus regains 1d6 + 2 expended charges after you complete a long rest. Exceptional. When the focus reaches this grade, it gains the following properties. While holding the focus, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, saving throws, and channeling attack rolls. The number of charges increases to 10. The number of charges regained after a long rest increases to 1d8 + 2. As an action, you can expend a number of its charges to activate one of the following powers with it: levitate (2 charges), light beam (2 charges), or unravel effect (3 charges). Superior. When the focus reaches this grade, it gains the following properties. The bonus to AC, saving throws, and channeling attack rolls increases to +2 The number of charges increases to 20. The number of charges regained after a long rest increases to 2d8 + 4. As an action, you can expend a number of its charges to activate one of the following powers with it: flame blast (rank 5 version, 5 charges), force field (5 charges), obfuscate (2 charges), superior stasis field (5 charges), or warp helix (5 charges). Optimum. When the focus reaches its optimum grade, it gains the following properties. The number of charges increases to 50. The number of charges regained after a long rest increases to 4d6 + 2. As an action, you can expend a number of its charges to activate one of the following powers with it: lightning ring (4 charges), reave (7 charges), singularity (rank 7 version, 7 charges), spatial passage (5 charges), or telekinesis (5 charges). You can expend an action to use one of the following powers with the focus without using any charges: esper sense , guiding discs , open channel , magnetic seal , and slow fall . You can perform a retributive strike (see below). Retributive Strike. You can use an action to break the focus over your knee or against a solid surface, performing a retributive strike. The focus is destroyed and releases its remaining power in an explosion that expands to fill a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on it. You have a 50 percent chance to instantly travel to a random location in the galaxy, avoiding the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you take force damage equal to 16 × the number of charges in the focus. Every other creature in the area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes an amount of damage based on how far away it is from the point of origin, as shown in the following table. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. Distance from Origin Damage 10 ft. away or closer 8 x the number of charges in the focus 11 to 20 ft. away 6 x the number of charges in the focus 21 to 30 ft. away 4 x the number of charges in the focus

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 27053
- Item Type: focus
- Item Rarity: epic

**publisher**: Alligator Alley Entertainment

**book**: Master Technician's Guide

