# Orphan's Cradle

**description**: Orphan's Cradle Trick weapon (morning star), very rare (requires attunement) ‘The Orphan's Tear is a flower that holds sway in Carmella’s heart. Engaging in a symbiotic rapport with the sanctified metal that surrounds it, the noxious bloom possesses near-flawless regenerative abilities. Moreover, the flowers exude a cloying fragrance, simultaneously repelling ravenous beasts and the cold touch of death. When set alight, the Orphan's Tear can serve as a very durable fuel, only to restore itself in a cycle of rebirth once the flames have been extinguished. Some say that this very capacity to elude the grasp of death is the force that set Carmella upon her unique destiny.’ You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In both states, the weapon is a morningstar with the reach property. Untransformed. The flowers growing in the cradle exude a sickly sweet scent that calms the mind of men and chases away nightmares. Humanoids within 10 feet of the cradle have advantage on saving throws against the charmed and frightened condition. In addition, the cradle has the Vile Miasma and Cleansing Miasma properties. Vile Miasma. When you hit a beast or an undead with orphan's cradle , the target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 minute, even if the target is immune to the poisoned condition. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to Vile Miasma for the next 24 hours. Cleansing Miasma. As an action, you can cleanse one humanoid you can see within 10 feet of you. It gains 1d12 temporary hit points and can end one of the following conditions: charmed, frightened, or poisoned. Once a creature has benefited from this property, it can't benefit from it again for 1 hour. Transformed. When transformed, the cradle's plants ignite, and it deals an extra 2d6 fire damage on a hit. In addition, the weapon gains the Fanned Flames and Withering Flames properties. Fanned Flames. As an action you can rotate the cradle wildly around you, fanning the flames. Each creature in a 20-foot cone in front of you must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 fire damage and 3d6 poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Beasts and undead have disadvantage on this saving throw. After using this property, orphan's cradle reverts to its untransformed state and can't be transformed again for 1d4-1 rounds. Withering Flames. When you hit a beast or an undead with orphan's cradle, you can force the target to make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target becomes vulnerable to your choice of one of the following damage types until the start of its next turn: acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or radiant. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the cradle's Withering Flames for the next 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Reach
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

