# Piecemaker Mk.2 Musket

**description**: Weapon (any firearm*), uncommon Component: elemental core of fire Originally named the ‘Peacemaker’, this field combat device has built in protections to prevent its agents from exceeding their mandate. If the magic within the firearm detects that a target is unarmed, the agent is unable to discharge the weapon. Elemental Ammunition. Instead of normal ammunition, this weapon uses special capsules of elemental energy. The weapon can hold one capsule at a time, which can be loaded into it as an action and, while using these capsules, you ignore the loading or reload properties of the weapon if it has them. Each capsule contains 6 charges, and new capsules can be requisitioned from the quartermaster or purchased on the grey market for 5 gp each. Capsules come in five flavours: acid, cold, fire, lightning, and thunder. Each attack with the piecemaker expends 1 charge from the loaded capsule, and deals damage of the capsule’s type instead of its normal damage type. Conflict Avoidance. If the target of your attack is an unarmed creature, the weapon doesn’t fire and the attack is wasted. The piecemaker is sophisticated enough to detect whether a creature has natural weapons, such as a bear’s claws and bite. If a creature’s natural weapons are restricted—such as handcuffed claws, or a muzzled maw—the piecemaker deems the target to be unarmed. Unarmed strikes notably aren’t classified as weapons. For this reason, the Shadow Enclave’s agents often manage to escape confrontations with the FBI unscathed. Rare variant, Piecemaker Mk.2: The weapon has the Enhance Ammo property. Enhance Ammo. As a bonus action while holding this weapon, you can enhance the capsule currently loaded into it. Each of the attacks you make that expend charges from that capsule has an additional effect depending on its flavour. Removing an enhanced capsule from the weapon removes the enhancement as well. Once this property of the weapon has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn. Acid Dissolution. When you hit a creature wearing nonmagical metal armour with an acid charge, roll a d20. On an 11 or higher, its armour suffers a cumulative -1 penalty to the AC it offers. The armour is destroyed if the penalty reduces its AC to 10. Cold Deceleration. A creature hit by a cold charge must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have its speed reduced to 0 feet until the end of its next turn. Fire Explosion. The target hit by a fire charge and each creature within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 fire damage. Lightning Inhibition. A creature hit by a lightning charge must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be unable to take reactions until the start of its next turn. A creature that fails this saving throw by 10 or more is incapacitated until the end of its next turn unless it is immune to being stunned. Thunder Disorientation. A creature hit by a thunder charge must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be deafened until the end of its next turn and have disadvantage on the next attack roll or ability check it makes before then.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (Magitech Firearm)
- Properties: Ammunition (range 80/240), Loud (1000), Reload (1), Two-handed
- Item Rarity: rare

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

