# Prism

**description**: With a head of rare illarite, this warhammer is a dazzling and dangerous planar lightshow. Legend Illarite, the planar-reactive mineral from which Prism is made, is found solely on mountains that “pierce the clouds.” Legend says the cloud giant princes will challenge anyone who climbs their peaks to brave the four Elemental Planes while wielding the warhammer and return alive. The reward: untold riches. Location Prism is with Loresword Seraphina Levis, an academic intent on studying Illarite. While the Cloud Princes won’t admit it, Seraphina tricked them into a bet of unspecified length, giving her years to study the warhammer under the pretense of accomplishing the challenge. Encounter Ideas Reputation Management. The cloud giant Prince Nimborian wants the “hammer situation” resolved and the ancestral weapon back. He tasks the adventurers with finding Seraphina to quietly negotiate. Uncharted Waters. Seraphina left the warhammer with colleagues at an arcane research station in the Elemental Plane of Water. She hasn’t heard a word from them in weeks. Failed Experiment. An experiment on the warhammer failed spectacularly, opening a portal to the Elemental Plane of Earth. Now a swarm of xorn is loose, one of whom ate the warhammer. Progression Prism progresses when it spends 7 consecutive days in an Elemental Plane (Air, Earth, Fire, or Water) that it hasn’t already spent 7 consecutive days in. Statistics Weapon (Warhammer), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . When within 1000 feet of a planar portal, the weapon flickers with dim light in a 5-foot radius. If the nearest portal is connected to one of the Elemental Planes, this light is colored according to the Duplicate Colors table below (for example, red light for the Plane of Fire). Uncommon . Tetradic Refraction . While in an area of dim or bright light, you can use your bonus action to raise Prism and cast mirror image , refracting your form into four monochromatic duplicates as you do so. When cast this way, the spell has the following modifications. You split into four different colored duplicates, each with an associated plane (see the Duplicate Colors table). Your essence flits between the four duplicates for the duration. If you have three or more duplicates, you must roll a 6 or higher to change the attack’s target to a duplicate. When you attack with this weapon, you attack as a chosen duplicate, dealing an additional 1d8 damage of its associated type on a hit. When a duplicate is destroyed, the GM randomly determines which one has been destroyed. If it is destroyed by a melee attack, it deals 1d8 damage of the duplicate’s associated type to the attacker. When three duplicates have been destroyed, the spell ends as normal, and you return to your original form. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Duplicate Colors Plane Color Damage Air Yellow Lightning Earth Green Poison Fire Red Fire Water Blue Cold Rare . The damage your duplicates deal on a hit or upon being destroyed increases to 2d8. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the damage your duplicates deal on a hit or upon being destroyed increases to 3d8. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the damage your duplicates deal on a hit or upon being destroyed increases to 4d8. When a duplicate is destroyed, it explodes and each creature within 10 feet of you must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 4d8 damage of the duplicate’s associated type on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (warhammer)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

