# Prophecy

**description**: Prophecy Trick weapon (cleaver, whip), artifact (requires attunement by a creature with a Strength of 15 or higher) You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. While attuned to it, your sight improves as your vision starts echoing with that of the blade. While holding prophecy , you gain the following benefits: You can't be surprised. Other creatures don't gain advantage on attack rolls against you as a result of being unseen by you. You are immune to being blinded, as the sword absorbs the effect and closes two of its eyes instead, before regrowing them. You have truesight out to 30 feet. You can cast the arcane eye spell at will, requiring no material components and using prophecy as your spellcasting focus. When cast in this way, the magical eye also has truesight out to 30 feet. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In its untransformed state, the weapon is a cleaver studded with eyeballs. In its transformed state, the weapon is a whip composed of metal shards held together by a sinew of blood and flesh. Untransformed. When you hit a creature with this cleaver, you curse them for the next hour. For the duration, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls made with the weapon against the target, any attack roll you make with the weapon against the cursed target is a critical hit on a roll of 18, 19, or 20 on the d20, and you have advantage on any Perception or Survival check you make to find the target. The curse ends early if you transform the weapon or if you fall unconscious. Transformed. This whip deals 1d6 slashing damage on a hit, has the versatile (1d6/1d8) property, but does not have the finesse property. Once on each of your turns when you hit a creature with this weapon, you can attempt to crush them under the weight of the whip. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier) or take 3d6 slashing damage and be knocked prone and restrained. Curse: All Devouring Sight. While attuned to this weapon, your sight deteriorates rapidly. For each five days that pass, you gain a permanent -1 penalty to all Perception checks made using your sight. When this penalty reaches -5, your eyes rot and melt out, leaving you permanently blinded as two new eyes appear on the blade. However when you kill a creature of a CR equal to your level or greater, if the creature had eyes, your curse’s penalty regresses by 1 (e.g., from -2 penalty to -1) to a minimum of 0. The sword's curse is insidious: while you remain attuned to the weapon, you do not suffer the penalty to your Perception checks, and you do not realize that your sight is worsening. The blade's influence makes you perceive the world in a clearer light. Demidritches are immune to this curse. *Roll20 Note: Add the Prophecy (Cleaver) to your character sheet for full functionality.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Reach, Versatile (d8)
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: Yes, by a creature with a Strength of 15 or higher

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

