# Quarterstaff of the Acrobat

**description**: Weapon (Quarterstaff), Very Rare (Requires Attunement) You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. While holding this weapon, you can cause it to emit green Dim Light out to 10 feet, either as a Bonus Action or after you roll Initiative, or you can extinguish the light as a Bonus Action. While holding this weapon, you can take a Bonus Action to alter its form, turning it into a 6-inch rod (for ease of storage) or a 10-foot pole, or reverting it a Quarterstaff; the weapon will elongate only as far as the surrounding space allows. In certain forms, the weapon has the following additional properties. Acrobatic Assist (Quarterstaff or 10-Foot Pole Forms Only). While holding this weapon, you have Advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks. Attack Deflection (Quarterstaff Form Only). When you are hit by an attack while holding the weapon, you can take a Reaction to twirl the weapon around you, gaining a +5 bonus to your Armor Class against the triggering attack, potentially causing the attack to miss you. You can’t use this property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest. Ranged Weapon (Quarterstaff Form Only). This weapon has the Thrown property with a normal range of 30 feet and a long range of 120 feet. Immediately after you make a ranged attack with the weapon, it flies back to your hand.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Theme: Armaments
- Mastery: Bludgeoning
- Subtype: Weapon
- Expansion: 33335
- Item Type: Simple
- data-List: false
- Properties: Thrown
- Item Rarity: No
- filter-Lists: Melee Weapon, Simple Weapon, Staff, Arcane Focus, Druidic Focus, Spell Focus, Yes
- filter-Damage: Versatile
- filter-Charges: No
- data-datarecords: [{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat","payload":"{\"type\":\"Item\",\"name\":\"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat\",\"description\":\"You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.\\nWhile holding this weapon, you can cause it to emit green Dim Light out to 10 feet, either as a Bonus Action or after you roll Initiative, or you can extinguish the light as a Bonus Action.\\nWhile holding this weapon, you can take a Bonus Action to alter its form, turning it into a 6-inch rod (for ease of storage) or a 10-foot pole, or reverting it a Quarterstaff; the weapon will elongate only as far as the surrounding space allows.\\nIn certain forms, the weapon has the following additional properties.\\nAcrobatic Assist (Quarterstaff or 10-Foot Pole Forms Only). While holding this weapon, you have Advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks.\\nAttack Deflection (Quarterstaff Form Only). When you are hit by an attack while holding the weapon, you can take a Reaction to twirl the weapon around you, gaining a +5 bonus to your Armor Class against the triggering attack, potentially causing the attack to miss you. You can't use this property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.\\nRanged Weapon (Quarterstaff Form Only). This weapon has the Thrown property with a normal range of 30 feet and a long range of 120 feet. Immediately after you make a ranged attack with the weapon, it flies back to your hand.\",\"weight\":4,\"properties\":[\"Versatile\",\"Thrown\"],\"cost\":\"40000 GP\",\"rarity\":\"Very Rare\",\"weaponData\":{\"category\":\"Melee\",\"training\":\"Simple\",\"type\":\"Quarterstaff\"},\"equipData\":{\"equippable\":true}}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attunement","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attunement\",\"requireEquip\":true}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat\",\"description\":\"You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.\",\"attack\":{\"type\":\"Melee\",\"abilityBonus\":\"Strength\",\"bonus\":2}}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Damage","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"auto\",\"bonus\":2,\"damageType\":\"Bludgeoning\",\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack (Thrown)","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat (Thrown)\",\"description\":\"You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.\",\"range\":\"30/120\",\"attack\":{\"type\":\"Ranged\",\"abilityBonus\":\"Strength\",\"bonus\":2}}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Damage (Thrown)","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack (Thrown)","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"auto\",\"bonus\":2,\"damageType\":\"Bludgeoning\",\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack (Two-handed)","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat (Two-handed)\",\"description\":\"You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.\",\"attack\":{\"type\":\"Melee\",\"abilityBonus\":\"Strength\",\"bonus\":2}}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Damage (Two-handed)","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack (Two-handed)","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"auto\",\"bonus\":2,\"damageType\":\"Bludgeoning\",\"diceSize\":\"d8\"}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Bonus Action","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"Dim Light On or Off\",\"description\":\"While holding this weapon, you can cause it to emit green Dim Light out to 10 feet, either as a Bonus Action or after you roll Initiative, or you can extinguish the light as a Bonus Action.\",\"actionType\":\"Bonus Action\"}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Bonus Action","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"Alter Quarterstaff of the Acrobat\",\"description\":\"While holding this weapon, you can take a Bonus Action to alter its form, turning it into a 6-inch rod (for ease of storage) or a 10-foot pole, or reverting it a Quarterstaff; the weapon will elongate only as far as the surrounding space allows.\",\"actionType\":\"Bonus Action\"}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Acrobatic Assist Roll Bonus","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Roll Bonus\",\"bonusCategory\":[\"Skills\"],\"bonusName\":[\"Acrobatics\"],\"bonusDetails\":\"Keep Highest\",\"bonusValue\":1,\"diceCount\":2,\"situation\":\"Quarterstaff or 10-Foot Pole Forms Only. While holding this weapon, you have Advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks.\"}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack Deflection Resource","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Resource\",\"name\":\"Attack Deflection\",\"value\":\"full\",\"maxValueFormula\":{\"flatValue\":1},\"recoveryRate\":{\"Long Rest\":{\"type\":\"Full\"},\"Short Rest\":{\"type\":\"Full\"}}}"},{"name":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack Deflection Reaction","parent":"Quarterstaff of the Acrobat Attack Deflection Resource","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"Attack Deflection\",\"description\":\"When you are hit by an attack while holding the weapon, you can take a Reaction to twirl the weapon around you, gaining a +5 bonus to your Armor Class against the triggering attack, potentially causing the attack to miss you.\",\"actionType\":\"Reaction\"}"}]
- filter-Attunement: Very Rare
- filter-Consumable: Topple
- Name: Quarterstaff of the Acrobat
- Weight: 4
- data-description: You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.
While holding this weapon, you can cause it to emit green Dim Light out to 10 feet, either as a Bonus Action or after you roll Initiative, or you can extinguish the light as a Bonus Action.
While holding this weapon, you can take a Bonus Action to alter its form, turning it into a 6-inch rod (for ease of storage) or a 10-foot pole, or reverting it a Quarterstaff; the weapon will elongate only as far as the surrounding space allows.
In certain forms, the weapon has the following additional properties.
Acrobatic Assist (Quarterstaff or 10-Foot Pole Forms Only). While holding this weapon, you have Advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks.
Attack Deflection (Quarterstaff Form Only). When you are hit by an attack while holding the weapon, you can take a Reaction to twirl the weapon around you, gaining a +5 bonus to your Armor Class against the triggering attack, potentially causing the attack to miss you. You can't use this property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
Ranged Weapon (Quarterstaff Form Only). This weapon has the Thrown property with a normal range of 30 feet and a long range of 120 feet. Immediately after you make a ranged attack with the weapon, it flies back to your hand.
- Damage: 1d6
- Damage Type: Bludgeoning
- data-RarityNum: 0

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Free Basic Rules (2024)

