# Ravel Witch Finger

**description**: Wondrous item, Unique Ravell uses these fingers as a way to maintain her version of immortality after abandoning the worship of Cegilune. These fingers are considered cursed by most spellcasters and their abilities depend on whether or not the user is a hag. Spellcaster Other Than a Hag You must make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw if you attempt to use this witch finger. If you fail your saving throw you are paralyzed and begin to slowly turn into an annis hag . This transformation takes one minute. If a dispel magic or dispel evil and good is cast on you then the transformation stops and you are cured but the Ravel witch finger disappears. If this does not happen then you are now an annis hag with no recollection of your previous life. This transformation happens regardless of your original gender and can only be reversed by a wish . If the above saving throw succeeds then you get to enjoy the benefits of a Ravell witch finger for a year and a day. You gain a +1 to your proficiency score and your Charisma score is now 24 while you display the Ravel witch finger. In one year and one day you must make another DC 20 Charisma saving throw or turn into an annis hag . If you succeed then the Ravel witch finger detonates for 10d20 points of psychic damage to you and everything in a 15-foot sphere of you, or half if a target succeeds on a DC 20 Charisma saving throw. Hag Use Any hag using a Ravel witch finger must immediately succeed at a DC 15 Charisma saving throw, or they will become the next Ravell if Ravell dies or tires of her current body. A hag that has failed this saving throw could immediately turn into Ravel or could live for a hundred years before Ravel wants a different form. Once transformed, the new Ravell remembers all her past lives and the previous hag is completely and utterly destroyed. If the hag is not immediately replaced by Ravel or managed to succeed on her saving throw then she gains +1 Proficiency and +2 DC on all saving throws to resist her spells and abilities. This hag also chooses any spell between level 1 and 7. She can innately cast that spell once per day as an action. She is also immune to all spells of any hag other than Ravell of Cegilune's avatar. The hag will not be aware that Ravel can scry on her at will. Level or Power of the Victim For the determination of power levels, assume that a character’s level is equivalent to the CR of a NPC or creature victim. For example, a 5th-level Sorcerer has the same power as a CR 5 night hag for the purposes of determining the bonuses granted to the sorcerer who is attuned to the night hag's living witch finger. Victim is More Powerful Than You. If the living witch finger is from a spellcaster that is more powerful than you then you take half damage against any spells that the victim casts against you. Victim is as Powerful as You. You gain no additional bonuses if the victim is the same power as you. Victim is Less Powerful Than You. If you are more powerful than the victim then you gain the following powers based on how powerful the victim is. These powers are cumulative, so a level 12 victim grants the first three powers as long as the wielder of the living witch finger is level 13 or higher. VICTIM Level Rarity Description 2-6 Uncommon You can increase the spell DC by +1 for one target of one of your spells 1/Day. 7-11 Rare You can reroll the damage of one of your spells 1/Day. 12-17 Very Rare The affected area of a spell that you cast increases by (10) five-foot by five-foot contiguous squares, this shape as long as each additional increased area of effect can take any square is touching the original spell affect area or each other. You can do this once per day. You could, as an example, cast a fireball with a fifty foot long tendril that extends away from its edge in one direction that is only five feet wide. All damage and effects occur normally. 18 Legendary After a long rest you can choose one of your level 1 through 3 spells and change its casting time to 1 bonus action as long as its casting time was 1 action. This spell will consume a normal spell slot. You can do this once per long rest. 19 Legendary Same as a level 18 victim, but the spell can now be level 4. 20+ Legendary Same as a level 18 victim, but the spell can now be level 5.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 34600
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Unique

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

