# Rear Guard

**description**: Rear Guard Ranged weapon (martial, longbow), uncommon This longbow is beautifully crafted from a fine gray-stained oak. A single cat’s eye stone is set into the center of the bow facing outwards. You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you are targeted by a ranged attack while wielding this bow, you are magically made aware of the attacker’s location until the end of your next turn. Additionally, you can use your reaction to make one ranged attack against the attacker. If your attack succeeds, the next attack that creature makes before the end of its next turn is made at disadvantage. As an action, you can use this bow to shoot an arrow and cause it to stop mid-flight at any point along its trajectory, where it will magically float in the air for up to one hour or until you use a bonus action to end the magic, at which point the arrow falls to the ground. While the arrow is suspended in the air, you can use your action to concentrate on the arrow and gain sight and hearing from the arrow’s location as if you were standing at the arrow’s location. This effect lasts until the start of your next turn, and you can use your action on subsequent turns to maintain this connection, extending the duration until the end of your next turn. While concentrating your senses through the arrow, you are blinded and deafened to your own surroundings. This sight grants you darkvision within 60 feet, as well as the ability to see invisible objects and creatures within the same range. Wisdom (Perception) checks made through this magical sight have advantage. Once you use this ability, you can’t use it again until the next dawn. Ammunition. You can use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if you have ammunition to fire from the weapon. Each time you attack with the weapon, you expend one piece of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, case, or other container is part of the attack (you need a free hand to load a one-­‐‑handed weapon). At the end of the battle, you can recover half your expended ammunition by taking a minute to search the battlefield. If you use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a melee attack, you treat the weapon as an improvised weapon. A sling must be loaded to deal any damage when used in this way. Heavy. Small creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls with heavy weapons. A heavy weapon’s size and bulk make it too large for a Small creature to use effectively. Two-­Handed. This weapon requires two hands when you attack with it. Damage: 1d8 Damage Type: Piercing Modifiers: +1 to attack rolls, +1 to damage rolls Properties: Ammunition, Heavy, Two-Handed Range: 150/600 Weight: 2

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Ammunition, Heavy, Range, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: uncommon

**publisher**: Viscount Games

**book**: Drizzts Travelogue of Everything

