# Red Bulette's Hide (Level 13)

**description**: This strange hide armor is stained a deep red color. A fin-like dorsal plate rises between the shoulders. Korgg was a mighty half-orc barbarian, who craved combat. The more difficult the odds, the better, and he, especially, lived for one-on-one combat. Often, Korgg would throw down his greataxe when facing a single foe and rush head-long into battle. Most such battles ended with the mighty Korgg literally tearing his opponent apart with his bare hands. One of Korgg’s greatest battles was with a fearsome bulette. Korgg was tasked with vanquishing the strange creature, who had been rampaging the area and terrifying the populace. The half-orc found the bulette in a cave. Korgg marveled at the strange creature’s thick, red hide. Then, with a deafening cry of ferocious rage, Korgg rushed into the cave and attacked the bulette. The battle lasted for what seemed an eternity. Finally, with an explosion of power, Korgg snapped the huge creature’s neck with his bare hands, killing it at last. The creature’s blood washed over them both, staining the creature’s hide a deeper red. Korgg dragged the bulette’s body back to town and into the square, where he loudly declared his victory to all who would hear him. In lieu of his promised payment, he instructed the most skilled armorer he could find to strip the hide from the bulette’s body and craft a suit of armor worthy of Korgg and his great victory. When Korgg donned his impressive new armor, the half-orc felt a rush of primal power, as if the soul of the bulette had entered his body. Korgg wore his armor on countless adventures and battles. The mere sight of the mighty half-orc in his red bulette’s hide was often enough to frighten most opponents into submission before a single axe blow had fallen. None can say with certainty what finally became of the mighty barbarian or his red armor. There are those who believe the famous armor sits in the bulette’s original cave, Korgg having gone there for his final rest. Many have searched for the cave in hopes of finding Korgg’s armor, but so far, no one has been able to find it. Armor (hide), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing this armor, you can cast the jump spell from it at will, but you can target only yourself when you do so. Strength of the Bulette (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. If you jump at least 15 feet as part of your movement, you can then use an action to land in a space that contains a creature of your size or smaller. The creature must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier) or be knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature isn’t knocked prone and is pushed 5 feet out of your space into an unoccupied space of its choice. If no unoccupied space is within range, the creature instead falls prone in your space. You can then make one melee weapon attack against the prone target as a bonus action. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC, and you gain a burrowing speed of 10 feet. In addition, when you use the 5th-level property of this axe, you can now land in a space that contains a creature up to one size larger than you. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1, and your burrowing speed increases to 20 feet, instead of 10. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2, and your burrowing speed increases to 40 feet, instead of 20. In addition, you gain tremorsense out to a range of 30 feet.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Medium Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

