# Regalia of the Ram Lords

**description**: “And to the tribes of men, we gift these hammers. One to the Ram Lords, masters of the mountaintops. One to the Horse Lords, masters of the plains. And one to the Toad Lords, masters of the swamps. Long may you protect the lands above our halls.” Legend While most of this weapon’s history has been lost to time, scholars pieced together that a dwarven city-state crafted a set of three warhammers, identical save for the animal depicted on their heads, and gifted them to nearby human clans. The hammers have shown up in stories of valiant warriors for centuries. Most stories are set in the vicinity of the Granite Garland, and because of this, adventurers have been delving into the mountain range looking for a forgotten dwarven stronghold for just as long. Location The hammer was lost twenty years ago when Almar Blueshield died repelling the ogre raider Gruug Onion-Breath. It is likely in Gruug’s fetid treasure hoard. Encounter Ideas The Ancient Halls. An expedition into the Granite Garland discovered a sealed dwarven gate and believes the Regalia might be able to open it. They hire the party to “retrieve it” from Gruug. Satyr It Ain’t So. At a tavern, a satyr sings a song about a glorious weapon “made in his image,” and a table of dwarves becomes violently offended by this. The Collector. Baron Aravicio collects rare weapons and has come into possession of the Regalia. Now he is sending thugs to interrogate anyone that might know the locations of the other two hammers. Progression The Regalia of the Ram Lords progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, the weapon’s rarity also increases. Statistics Weapon (Warhammer), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . You can speak a command word to cause the ram heads’ eyes to glow red for 1 minute. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Call the Ram Court. You call forth spectral rams to protect you. They clamor about you within a 5-foot-radius sphere for 1 minute. When you activate this ability, you can designate any number of creatures you can see to be unaffected by it. When a creature enters the area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Strength saving throw. The DC is equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier. On a failed save, the creature takes 1d8 bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. The radius of Call the Ram Court increases to 10 feet and its damage increases to 3d8. Sure-Footed. While holding this weapon, you have advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would knock you prone or move you against your will. Very Rare . Phantom Goat. As an action, you can cast the phantom steed spell from this weapon. When you do, the steed appears as a giant goat . You can use this property twice, and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. The radius of Call the Ram Court increases to 15 feet and its damage increases to 5d8.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (warhammer)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

