# Reward of the Pact Champion

**description**: Reward of the Pact Champion Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement by a warlock) This magic item takes various forms depending on the warlock’s patron. It is granted to warlocks that have been instrumental in their patron achieving their grand ambition, or completed the final task the patron would give the warlock to prove themself. As an action while holding the item, you can regain one of your expended arcanum spells. This property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. If the arcanum spell was of 8th or 9th level, this property instead can’t be used again until 7 days have passed. The item also has additional properties based on your Otherworldly Patron. The Archfey. The item takes the form of an amulet bearing the symbol of your patron. While you wear it, your appearance gains an otherworldly aspect that makes you look impossibly lovely and fierce, and you can use your Fey Presence, Misty Escape, and Dark Delirium features an unlimited number of times. Additionally while you wear the amulet, fey other than your patron have difficulty harming you. If a fey targets you directly with an attack or harmful spell that targets only you, it must make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, it must choose a new target or lose the attack or spell. The Archmage. The item takes the form of a rod, staff, or wand etched with runes and your patron’s symbol. Spells you cast using the item as a spellcasting focus have a +2 bonus to their spell attack rolls and spell save DC. Choose a warlock spell you know of 1st or 2nd level when you attune to the item. While you hold the item, you can cast the chosen spell at will, without expending a spell slot. When you do, it is cast at the level of your warlock spell slot. The Celestial. The item takes the form of a robe bearing designs that symbolically represent your patron. You gain 5 additional d6s in your Healing Light pool. While wearing the robe, when you cause a creature to regain hit points with a warlock class feature or a warlock spell, that creature regains 3 additional hit points, and you can choose to cure the target of one disease, neutralize one poison affecting it, or end one condition affecting it. If an affected feature or spell would restore the creature’s hit points to higher than its hit point maximum, it gains the surplus as temporary hit points. The Crone. The item takes the form of thirteen talismans, each bearing the symbol of your patron. While you or a member of your coven wears one of the talismans, the creature has a +1 bonus to saving throws and to the spell attack rolls and spell save DCs for your warlock spells, it shares the senses of each other coven member wearing one of the talismans, and it counts as being within 120 feet of you for the purpose of your warlock features as long as it is on the same plane of existence as you. The Fathomless. The item takes the form of a tentacle arm ring that undulates along your bicep when you wear it. While you wear the arm ring, you regain your expended uses of your Tentacle of the Deep feature when you finish a short or long rest. Additionally while you wear the arm ring, you add your Charisma modifier to the damage rolls you make for your Tentacle of the Deep feature, your tentacle’s reach and the range of your Guardian Coil feature both increase to 30 feet, and you have a +1 bonus to your spell attack rolls. The Fiend. The item takes the form of a cloak bearing designs that symbolically represent your patron. You regain the use of your Hurl Through Hell feature when you finish a short or long rest. While you wear the cloak, you have resistance against fire, necrotic, and poison damage dealt by creatures other than your patron, as well as immunity to the charmed, frightened, and poisoned conditions. As a bonus action while you wear the cloak, you can cause it to become a pair of bat-like wings that attach themselves to your back or have it return to its cloak form. You have a flying speed of 30 feet while the cloak is in its wing form. The Genie. The item takes the form of a ring engraved with symbols representing your patron. While you wear the ring, your Genie’s Vessel is immune to all nonmagical damage, and you can use an action on your turn to receive a replacement vessel if your vessel is ever lost or destroyed. When you use the vessel’s Bottled Respite ability, you can remain inside the vessel indefinitely so long as you’re wearing the ring. Additionally while you wear the ring, you can use the bonus action granted by your Elemental Gift feature an unlimited number of times, and you regain the use of your Limited Wish feature each time you use your vessel’s Bottled Respite ability. Each time you cast eldritch blast while wearing the ring, you can choose for this casting to deal bludgeoning, cold, fire, or thunder damage instead of force. The Hexblade. The item takes the form of a magic longsword or greatsword etched with eldritch runes and your patron’s symbol. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls you make with it. When you hit a creature with a weapon attack using the item, the target has disadvantage on saving throws against your warlock spells until the end of your next turn. The Icebound. The item takes the form of an ice crystal or large snowflake that never melts and is brutally cold to creatures other than you and your patron. While you wear or carry the item, you have immunity to cold damage dealt by creatures other than your patron and resistance against fire damage, you can use your Decree of Frost feature an unlimited number of times, you gain a +2 bonus to the attack and damage rolls you make for icicles conjured by your Circle of Icicles or Aurora Cloak, and when you use your Aurora Cloak feature, you can choose the effect instead of rolling. The Great Old One. The item takes the form of an object of constantly shifting and utterly unfathomable geometries. The telepathy granted by your Awakened Mind feature has unlimited range and doesn’t require sight as long as you have met the creature in person and the creature is on the same plane of existence as you. While holding the item, you can use your Entropic Ward feature an unlimited number of times. Additionally, when a creature causes you to make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to gain advantage on the saving throw. If you succeed on the save, the creature has disadvantage on the first saving throw it makes against one of your warlock spells before the end of your next turn. The Great Trickster. The item takes the form of a trinket or bauble with designs that symbolically represent your patron. While you are wearing or carrying the item, you can use the final benefit of your Spellswipe feature an unlimited number of times, and you regain the use of your Two Steps Ahead feature when you finish a short or long rest. As an action while holding the item, you can cause a Small or smaller unsecured object you can see within 60 feet of you to magically teleport to your hand. The object can be held or carried by a creature, but can’t be an object that creature is wearing. Once you cause an item to teleport in this way, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest. The Librarian. The item takes the form of a grimoire bearing the symbol of your patron, and can function as the grimoire granted by your Meticulous Chronicling feature. You can cast silence from the grimoire at will, without expending a spell slot. While the grimoire is on your person, you can speak, read, and write all languages, and you gain a +2 bonus to any ability check you make. This bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that doesn’t include your proficiency bonus. The Titan. The item takes the form of a pair of gauntlets with designs that symbolically represent your patron. While you wear them, your Strength score becomes 24 unless it was already higher. As an action while wearing the gauntlets, you can cast the maximize/minimize UAH spell from the gauntlets targeting a creature you touch. When you cast the spell this way, you can choose only the spell’s Maximize effect, and you can’t cast the spell using the gauntlets again until the next dawn. The Undead. The item takes the form of a locket within which is locked a piece of your patron, such as a piece of their bone or flesh. While you wear the locket, you regain your expended uses of your Form of Dread feature when you finish a short or long rest, you regain the use of your Necrotic Husk feature when you finish a long rest, and you regain the use of your Spirit Projection feature when you finish a short or long rest. The Undying. The item takes the form of a phylactery with designs that symbolically represent your patron. The phylactery can only be destroyed by using the wish spell, targeting it with the disintegrate spell, or striking it with a magic weapon that is legendary or an artifact. You immediately know if the phylactery is ever destroyed, and it reforms in your space when you next finish a long rest. While you have a phylactery, you don’t age. When you die, a new version of your body is formed from green smoke within 5 feet of the phylactery at the next dusk, and you return to life in the new body, gaining the benefits of a long rest. While you wear or carry your phylactery, you can use your Defy Death and Indestructible Life features an unlimited number of times.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by a warlock

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

