# Ring of Thunderstorms, Legendary

**description**: This swirling ring of clouds is like a miniature thunderstorm, just big enough to fit around a finger. If someone tries to put it on, it changes size to fit perfectly for any character of small, medium or huge size. Tiny lightning bolts constantly appear within it. The secrets of creating these rings were given to the mortals by the deity Gadrishval, the Lord of the Wind. Depending on the skill of its creator, different versions of the item have been made. It is said that some of the most powerful ones were crafted by Gadrishval himself. Magic schools: Evocation Cost: 50.000 gp Magic properties: The Legendary Ring of Thunderstorms grants Immunity to Thunder and Lightning damage. As an action, the wearer can use it to summon a minor thunderstorm. All targets in a 50-foot radius centered on a point within 300 feet have to make a Dexterity Saving Throw vs. DC 20, or be knocked prone. The saving throw has to be repeated every round as long as the targets are within the storm. Targets who fail the save also have to make a Concentration (Constitution) check against DC 10, with Disadvantage, if they’re concentrating on a spell. The storm persists for a number of rounds equal to the wearer’s Proficiency bonus. During that time, the wearer adds 8d8 lightning damage to all their melee attacks. Once used, the storm cannot be summoned again for one day. Once a day, as an action, the ring can be used to summon an air elemental. The creature serves the wearer of the ring willingly and loyally. If it gets no commands, it will defend the ring’s owner to the best of its abilities. The elemental stays for one hour, or until it is dismissed by the owner, or killed. If it is killed, the creature reforms hidden within the ring. The air elemental’s soul is bound to the item, and it can be summoned without accessing the elemental planes. To attune to the Legendary Ring of Thunderstorms, a new owner has to wear it for at least one hour while in the midst of a thunderstorm. If someone who is not attuned to the ring tries to use it, the air elemental appears and attacks the wearer. “Finally”, Arthi whispered, opening the chest. She expected gold, gemstones, flashy jewelry. Instead, there was a single object inside. “Well... still kind of flashy”, she mumbled to herself, as she picked up the strange ring. Clouds moved in a constant twirling motion. Lights flared up within, tiny lighting bolts hidden in the ring of clouds. Arthi half expected to hear thunder, but everything stayed silent. She hesitated for a moment, then shrugged and put on the ring. It shrank a little, adapting perfectly to her finger. Then she noticed the rune carved into the bottom of the chest. It wasn’t magical, it was just a single word written in an old language of the humans. “Ghadhri”, she read it out loud. It meant “The Lord’s Blessing”. The next moment, she was knocked off her feet as a magical storm erupted from the ring. A sphere of wind formed, just a few steps away from her, swirling and raging. But that wasn’t all: Crackling energy engulfed her hand, lightning that was only waiting to be unleashed on her enemies. Arthi smiled. This was so, so much better than gold...

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 26136
- Item Type: Ring
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Arcane Items 1

