# Ring of Fungal Symbiosis (very rare variant)

**description**: Ring, very rare (optional attunement) Parasite or symbiote, the exact classification of this loop of living fungus is up for debate. When worn for an extended period, the ring co-opts its host, producing an assortment of fruiting fungal bodies each day. Whether those are of benefit or not is entirely up to how they’re used. Whenever you finish a long rest during which you wear this ring, you find a selection of toadstools has grown on the limb that sports this ring. Roll a d4 twice and consult the list below to determine which two mushrooms have grown. 1-Boomshroom. As an action, a creature can throw this volatile mushroom at a point it can see within 60 feet of it, where it explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere of flames. Each creature in the area must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw , taking 4d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire ignites flammable objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried. 2-Bloomshroom. As an action, a creature can eat this mushroom, regaining 2d4 + 2 hit points and gaining advantage on all Constitution saving throws for 1 minute . 3-Doomshroom. As an action, a creature can throw this dusky mushroom at a point it can see within 60 feet of it, where it explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere of purple spores. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or become afflicted by the bane spell for 1 minute . An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. 4-Gloomshroom. As an action, a creature can eat this mushroom. For the next hour , it gains darkvision out to a range of 60 feet . If it already has darkvision, the range of this vision is increased by 30 feet . The mushrooms last on your arm until you finish a long rest, but lose all magical effects 10 minutes after they are plucked. You can pluck a mushroom as part of the action to use it. Optional Attunement. You can choose to attune to this item. While attuned, you can roll the d4 to determine which mushrooms grew four times instead of twice. Very rare variant: Increase all DCs to 16 . When determining which mushrooms grow on your limb, increase the d4 to a d6 , and add the following options: 5-Rheumshroom. As an action, a creature can throw this sticky mushroom at a point it can see within 60 feet of it, where it explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere o f arthritis-inducing spores. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or suffer the effects of the slow spell for 1 minute . An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. 6-Zoomshroom. As an action, a creature can eat this mushroom, gaining the benefits of the haste spell for 1 minute . At the start of each of the affected creature’s turns, roll a d6 . On a 1 , the effect ends and the wave of lethargy described in the spell sweeps over it. In addition, while a creature is attuned to the ring, it gains the Fungal Plating property. OA: Fungal Plating. When you finish a long rest while wearing the ring, hard sheets of organic mycoprotein cover your body. You gain the benefits of the barkskin spell for the next 24 hours (no concentration required). While this magical effect persists, you gain 5 temporary hit points at the start of each of your turns.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 23695
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: yes

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: Heliana's Guide to Monster Hunting - Compendium

