# Rod of Seven Parts

**description**: Rod, Artifact (Requires Attunement) Eons ago, a war between the primordials and the gods scarred the planes of existence. A demon lord named Miska the Wolf-Spider eventually pushed the primordials’ enemies to the brink of annihilation. Desperate to save themselves and their allies, powerful elemental beings called the Wind Dukes of Aaqa rose against Miska. Committed to the concept of law, the Wind Dukes descended from a people called the vaati, who once ruled many worlds. Seven Wind Dukes wove their power into an artifact called the Rod of Law . The dukes used the rod to imprison Miska on the plane of Pandemonium. As a result, the rod shattered into seven parts that were scattered throughout the multiverse. The rod thus became known as the Rod of Se ven Parts . Possessing the Broken Rod. The rod can’t be attuned to while it is broken. While holding one piece of the broken rod, you know the general location of the next consecutive piece, as the rod yearns to be a complete artifact. Multiple rod pieces can be assembled into one piece or disassembled again, each requiring an action, although a partially complete rod doesn’t gain any other abilities. Additionally, while holding one piece of the broken rod, you can use an action to cast the spell associated with that piece, as listed on the Rod Pieces table. Once that piece of the rod has been used to cast a spell, it can’t be used that way again until the next dawn. Rod Pieces Piece Spell First Commune Second Arcane Gate Third Reverse Gravity (spell save DC 18) Fourth Regenerate Fifth Find the Path Sixth Mirage Arcane Seventh Simulacrum Possessing the Whole Rod. Once all seven pieces are reassembled, a creature can attune to the Rod of Seven Parts . While attuned to the rod, you gain the following benefits: Magic Weapon. The Rod of Seven Parts functions for you as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. Rod Spellcasting. The Rod of Seven Parts has 7 charges and regains 1d4 + 3 expended charges daily at dawn. While holding the rod, you can use an action to expend 1 charge and cast any of the spells in the Rod Pieces table. You can also use an action to cast Detect Evil and Good from the rod without using any charges. Ultimate Law. If you are not of a lawful alignment, you find your worldview shifting toward keeping a personal code. You are more apt to keep your promises, follow through on your declarations, and adhere to your beliefs. Destroying the Rod. The only way to destroy the Rod of Seven Parts is to immerse the assembled rod in lava in the Abyss. It must remain in the lava for fifty years before it finally is consumed. A piece of the rod may be temporarily destroyed in this way, but each piece re-forms one year after it has succumbed. A re-formed piece teleports to a random place in the multiverse.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: Artifact
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Vecna - Eve of Ruin

