# Ruby Rod of Asmodeus

**description**: Rod, artifact (requires attunement) Asmodeus’s Ruby Rod is said to have been constructed from a shard of pure evil, a ruby soaked in the blood of the innocents, the drool from a draconic deity, and the tears of 777 angels. It is a magic rod that functions as a morningstar and you have a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. All damage dealt with it is converted to necrotic, and when you hit a good aligned creature, that creature takes an extra 2d12 necrotic damage. The Ruby Rod of Asmodeus has 66 charges and regains 6d6 charges each nightfall. Asmodeus is always capable of perceiving through the rod and knows the exact location of any creature attuned to it. If a creature uses the special abilities of the rod without Asmodeus’s permission, they take 2d12 necrotic damage each use, doubled if they’re good aligned. This damage ignores resistances and immunities, and if it kills the user, Asmodeus permanently claims their soul. Random Properties. The Ruby Rod of Asmodeus has the following random properties: 1 minor beneficial property 1 major beneficial property 2 major detrimental properties Asmodeus is immune to the detrimental properties of the weapon. Bow to the King. You may use an action to expend 33 charges to use the rod to force all creatures within a 150-foot-radius to bow to you. A creature must succeed on a DC 21 Charisma saving throw or be forced to kneel for up to 1 hour. Creatures immune to the charmed condition have advantage on their save. Each time a kneeling creature takes damage, they may repeat the save, ending the effect on a success. The effect also ends early for kneeling creatures if they’re touched by the Ruby Rod. Acid, Cold, and Lightning. At a cost of 9 charges each use, you may use an action to trigger one of the following effects: You project acid in a 60-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 12d8 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. You project an icy blast in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 12d8 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. You shoot lightning in a 90-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 12d10 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Reactions. As a reaction to suffering a detrimental effect, you may cast Lesser Restoration (expending 3 charges) or Greater Restoration (expending 12 charges.) Additionally, if you’re the sole target of a spell, you may use a reaction to attempt to use the rod to absorb the spell and cancel its effect. You roll 1d20 + 2, and if the result is higher than the spell level + 10, the spell is absorbed into the rod. The rod regains charges equal to the spell level it absorbed. If the absorbed charges go over the maximum of 66 charges, it overloads, dealing 1d6 necrotic damage per charge to you and expending all charges. Destroying the Rod. While Asmodeus lives, the Ruby Rod of Asmodeus can’t be destroyed, and if attempted it simply returns to Asmodeus. If he were defeated, the rod could be destroyed by bringing it to the Abyss from whence it was created, then performing a ritual known only to Asmodeus.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (rod)
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Chains of Asmodeus

