# Sacred Mountain Armor (Level 1)

**description**: This armor consists of hundreds of small, interlocking pieces of steel shaped to resemble an ancient symbol for the word “mountain.” The mail is riveted to a leather backing and is worn like a mail coat which covers the torso, shoulders, and thighs. Emperor Shin ruled a vast empire from his magnificent capital city at the foot of a sacred mountain. The Emperor was protected by the Order of the Sacred Mountain, a force of eleven elite, hand-picked warrior-monks. When each initiate first entered the Order, he or she received a special suit of sacred mountain armor, which the initiate then carried, alone, up the slopes of the Sacred Mountain to the shrine at the mountain’s summit. Once there, the monk placed the armor on the altar and knelt in prayer throughout the night. At dawn, the warrior donned the sacred mountain armor , now blessed by the spirit of the mountain itself, and descended the slopes as a full member of the Order. Many years into the Emperor’s reign, the capital was besieged by a powerful ogre mage called Ukani-sago, who led a force of ogres and orcs. Ukani-sago vowed to cut off the Emperor’s head and parade it among his troops on a spear. The ogre mage and his forces swarmed the capital city, killing and burning everyone and everything in their path. The Emperor’s soldiers fought valiantly, but were soon overwhelmed, and the ogre horde surrounded the Emperor’s palace. Hopelessly outnumbered, the Order of the Sacred Mountain prepared to make their last stand. They drew up defensive positions in the inner courtyard and formed a circle around Emperor Shin. The warrior-monks fought with honor and valor. One by one, however, they were slaughtered—the odds against them were simply too great. True to his word, Ukani-sago raised Emperor Shin’s head high upon his spear and roared in triumph. The bodies of the slain warrior-monks were stripped of their sacred mountain armor . Most of the armor was destroyed, but a few suits were carried off as war prizes. Some say Ukani-sago even claimed the most powerful set of sacred mountain armor for himself… Armor (scale mail), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing this armor, you have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks when in rocky or mountainous terrain. Mountain’s Blessing (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. Difficult terrain composed of rubble, rocks, or similar mountainous terrain doesn’t cost you extra movement. In addition, if an effect moves you against your will along rocky or mountainous ground, you can use your reaction to reduce the distance you are moved by up to 10 feet. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC. In addition, you can use an action to speak the command word and cause your flesh to become stony and craggy. This effect works like the stoneskin spell, except you don’t have to maintain concentration, and it lasts 1 hour. The effect ends early if you remove the armor or if you use an action to speak the command word again. Once used, the armor can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1. In addition, you have resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage when in rocky or mountainous terrain. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. In addition, you can use an action to make yourself immune to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage for 10 minutes or until you are no longer wearing this armor. For the duration, you can’t be moved against your will in rocky or mountainous terrain. Once used, this property can’t be used again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Medium Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

