# Scorpion Sting Scimitar (Level 17)

**description**: This scimitar has a gleaming blade of remarkable workmanship. The pommel is set with a large ruby. Long ago, in a far-off desert kingdom, the Scorpion Padishah ruled from a gleaming city near a vast oasis. The Padishah commanded a small but loyal army, dedicated to protecting the city from raiders and nomads who roamed the surrounding desert. Leading this army were elite warriors known as the Seven Scorpions. Each of these warriors was said to be the equal of ten normal men, and each was sworn to protect the city and the Padishah with their lives. Each of the Seven Scorpions carried a golden scimitar. These mystical swords were said to have been forged by genies many centuries ago and could cleave through solid rock. Possessing a scorpion sting scimitar was the highest accolade one could receive within the desert kingdoms. If a scorpion warrior fell in battle, one of their fellows was honor-bound to recover the fallen warrior’s scimitar and return it to the Padishah. The Padishah would then bestow it on a worthy successor. Eventually, the Padishah’s city was claimed by the sands of time, and it is unknown what became of the seven scorpion sting scimitars . One is thought to currently be in the possession of a wicked desert sultan; another is rumored to be part of an Efreeti’s personal hoard. At least two of the scimitars are thought to have been destroyed long ago. As for the whereabouts of the others, none can say with certainty. Weapon (scimitar), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wielding this scimitar, you can use an action to create one dose of basic poison from this scimitar. The poison can coat the blade or be collected in a vial (your choice). If collected in a vial, the poison lasts for 1 hour or until used to coat a blade. Once used, the scimitar can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. Poisoned Blade (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wielding this weapon. 5th level. You have resistance to poison damage. In addition, the scimitar has 3 charges. You can expend 1 charge as an action to coat the blade in an oily, green poison that remains for 1 minute or until an attack using this scimitar hits a creature. That creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier) or take 2d4 poison damage. The scimitar regains all expended charges daily at dawn. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this magic weapon, and the scimitar now has 5 charges, instead of 3. In addition, poison created by this scimitar ignores resistance to poison damage. 13th level. You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this scimitar, instead of +1. In addition, when you deal poison damage to a creature, you can make one attack with this scimitar against that creature as a bonus action. 17th level. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls with this scimitar, instead of +2. In addition, you can expend 2 charges as an action to create one dose of any contact or injury poison. The poison can coat the blade for 1 minute or be collected in a vial (your choice). If collected in a vial, the poison lasts for 8 hours or until used to coat a blade.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Finesse, Light
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

