# Seed Satchel

**description**: Wondrous item, Hag, Rare (attunement) Using a seed satchel is an evil act. Hags rarely make these for others because they are made from hag hide. When given to others, a seed satchel is usually made out of the hide of a rival hag that was disposed of by the recipient. Seed satchels are dull green or brown hide bags and are often covered with various bodily fluid stains. Seed satchels often contain other oddities besides seeds or teeth. It takes a hag 1d3 years to make a seed satchel. The seeds themselves have to be the teeth of children of any sentient species. Hags can only use the teeth of children that have been digested in some way, with the teeth collected after they pass. Seed satchels usually contain 9 (1d6 + 6) teeth or "seeds," but can easily hold more depending on the hag’s ability to find children. Seeds can be used to do the following: Create Skeletal Wyvern. The user buries a seed in mud, swamp, brackish water, or very damp earth and in 1d10 minutes, a skeletal wyvern will burst from the seed. The wyvern will serve the bearer of the seed satchel until destroyed, at which point one of the skeletal wyvern’s teeth will be a recoverable seed for use in the satchel. The user can only have one skeletal wyvern at a time. Hex. As an action, the user throws a seed, Ranged Weapon Attack + (their ranged weapon attack or spell attack modifier), range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 1 bludgeoning damage. If the seed hits the target, then that target is affected by a 3rd spell-level hex. The user does not need to concentrate to maintain this hex, and can attempt to hex a different target with a seed per round. Each hex effect lasts for 10 minutes. Seed Snaps. A seed can be eaten as a bonus action, but in order to have effect the teeth must be chewed up before swallowed. A creature can chew three seeds at once. The person eating the seeds will taste thick sweet citrus juice and will be healed for 6 (1d4 + 4) hit points per seed eaten. Every three seeds eaten also removes one exhaustion level. All creatures within 10 feet of the eater, except for the eater, hear high pitched screams of panicked children. They must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or gain the frightened condition for one round. Once a target succeeds at this save they are immune to this effect for the next 24 hours. This may cause horror or madness depending on the DM. Spawn Tree. The user can bury a seed and a tree will grow quickly over the course of 3d4 hours into a mature tree roughly 40 feet tall. After 2d4 days the tree will no longer be detected as magical and becomes a random fruit bearing tree. But after 10 years this tree will begin to bear fruit, and 1 in 20 of its fruit have a small child’s tooth imbedded inside. This tooth can be used as a seed for a seed satchel. These trees are not immortal but are highly resistant to non-magical poison or disease. Most evil druids will gladly use up an entire seed satchel to plant these very sturdy trees. Wall of Thorns. The user throws a seed up to 60 feet away as an action. At the beginning of the user’s next round a wall of thorns will spring into existence, per spell, with a spell DC 15. This wall will last an hour and then die, leaving behind a brittle rotten wall of thorns that does no damage and is easily hacked through. No seeds are recovered from this use. Hag Use of a Seed Satchel There are few hag gifts more powerful than a seed satchel in the hands of a hag. A hag can use a seed to do all of the functions listed previously, and the following: Hag Geas. The hag either sneaks a seed into a target’s food or drink, tricks the user into ingesting it, or gets a target to swallow a seed willingly. Either way the effect it has on a target is called a Hag Geas. The hag gease is often used as part of a bargain or deal, in which the target must willingly agree or the hag refuses to deal at all. Hag Geas A willing target of a hag geas has an increased saving throw DC and increased penalties for acting against the geas. An unwilling victim will be able to resist the geas a little easier. Because of this, hags go out of her way to talk a creature into accepting the hag geas willingly. Any sentient creature under a hag geas is affected as if they are under a 6th-level geas spell. The spell DC will be the spell DC of the hag’s spells or special abilities. If the target willingly accepts the hag geas then add +4 to the spell DC. A willing target of a hag geas is also vulnerable to psychic damage when the source is hag geas. Remove curse and dispel magic will not work against a hag geas but a wish spell will. Someone attempting to remove a hag geas with a greater restoration will succeed only if the caster also wins a Charisma contest against the hag who placed the hag geas on the victim. The spell automatically succeeds if the caster and the hag are on different planes of existence. Transmute to Poison. The hag can place a seed into any container of liquid and poison its contents. Transmute to poison is more effective against unenchanted liquids, such as water, holy water, acids, beer, etc. This transmutation is instantaneous and does not change the color, smell, or taste of the liquid. This effect turns liquids into the poison, swan’s lament. Potions affected by transmute to poison become potions of poison. Poison - Swan’s Lament (Ingest) This poison can only be created by a hag with a seed satchel. Against any creature that is not a swan or a swanmay, this poison causes 28 (8d6) poison damage, or half damage with a successful DC 15 Constitution saving throw. Those that fail their saving throw also gain the poisoned condition for 4 (1d6 + 1) hours. Against a swan or a swanmay this poison is very virulent and dangerous. Swans will automatically die if this poison is drunk. Swanmays face a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or they lose 2d4 points of Constitution. While under this effect they will have dreams of drinking blood with the certain knowledge that doing so will cure them. The Swanmay then faces a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or she is compelled to find the nearest humanoid and drain and drink its blood. If they do this then they forever lose the ability to assume the form of a swan, but they are no longer poisoned and their Constitution is restored to normal. Call Treant. The hag buries a seed near her lair and within 2d6 days a treant arrives, not under any magic control or compulsion, but very suspicious of the hag. The hag and the treant will then start a long conversation. Over the course of the next few days the treant and the hag will discuss nature, the weather, and any nearby threats to the wilderness. The hag will be on her best behaviour and will have the truly hideous objects and minions well hidden. She will slowly try and tempt the treant into a partnership of sorts, playing to its anger of fire and encroaching civilization. In game terms this translates into a week long Wisdom ability contest, where the hag has advantage if there has been any recent (within the last 10 years) wilderness incursions by civilization, monster hordes, etc. The treant will have advantage on the Wisdom contest if something not of the wilderness or natural world has acted recently to defend the forest or the creatures within it. If the treant wins the contest it ambles away and the two part on neutral terms. If the hag wins the Wisdom contest then she can turn the willing treant into a vengeful treant who volunteers to storm into civilization and wreak havoc or defend the nearby wilderness violently and without quarter. Transmute Treant to Vengeful Treant. A willing treant will accept a seed and allow it to take root somewhere on its body if successfully talked into this transformation by a hag. This ritual transforms the treant slowly over the course of 3d4 days. This vengeful treant is not magically compelled by the hag but its mind has been corrupted by her presence and rituals, which changes the treant’s statistics and its alignment to chaotic neutral. All or Nothing. A Hag who is facing overwhelming odds and is willing to completely destroy her seed satchel can use all the seeds she has remaining (no less than 3) for a last ditch effort to destroy the general area and escape with her life. In order to do this she must, as an action, violently empty the contents of her satchel and toss the satchel into the air, where it will burst into flames. On the hag’s next turn she levitates, per spell, but with the ability to move horizontally if she choses. Her location at the start of this same round is also the center of an earthquake spell. The hag can take no action while maintaining the earthquake effects other than levitating 60 feet either vertically or horizontally. A hag can maintain the earthquake for a number of rounds equal to twice her Charisma modifier (minimum of 2 rounds). If she does anything other than levitate then both the levitation and earthquake spell ends immediately.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Rare
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

