# Seeker Dart

**description**: Seeker Dart Weapon (dart), uncommon This small dart is decorated with designs like windy spirals that span the length of its shaft. When you whisper the word “seek” and hurl this dart, it seeks out a target of your choice within 120 feet of you. You must have seen the target before, but you don’t need to see it now. If the target isn’t within range or if there is no clear path to it, the dart falls to the ground, its magic spent and wasted. Otherwise, elemental winds guide the dart instantly through the air to the target. The dart can pass though openings as narrow as 1 inch wide and can change direction to fly around corners. When the dart reaches its target, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 piercing damage and 3d4 lightning damage. The dart’s magic is then spent, and it becomes an ordinary dart. Elemental Magic Items Elemental power has allowed the cults to have more magic items than is normal for groups of their size, yet there still aren’t enough magic items for each cultist to have one. Every member of the air cult, for example, would love to be able to soar on the wind, but only certain members have a magical ability or an item that confers that blessing. The cults have some special items that harness the power of the elemental nodes themselves. These items rely on energy siphoned from a node, and some of them must be recharged inside the appropriate type of node, as noted in the items’ descriptions. Otherwise, such an item ceases to function. Adventurers who recover a node-fueled item will, therefore, only be able to recharge it when an appropriate node is nearby. Finesse. When making an attack with a finesse weapon, you use your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the same modifier for both rolls. Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged attack has a range in parentheses after the ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon's normal range in feet, and the second indicates the weapon's long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have disadvantage on the attack roll. You can't attack a target beyond the weapon's long range. Thrown. If a weap on has the thrown property, you can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength, but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the finesse property. Damage: 1d4 Damage Type: Piercing Secondary Damage: 3d4 Secondary Damage Type: Lightning Properties: Finesse, Range, Thrown Range: 20/60 Weight: 0.25

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 7390
- Item Type: Weapon
- Item Rarity: uncommon

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

