# Ser Boncou Rage

**description**: Wondrous item, uncommon Component: monstrosity (shapechanger) liver Dealing with lycanthropy, curses from the Far Realms, or mutations caused by the sentient, self replicating Mut-X mutagen can jade even the most resilient nurse of the Night Hospitaller. These potions of bottled courage, all of which go by the name Ser Boncou Rage, can imbue a terrified sister with the immense determination required to cure lycanthropy on a full moon or protect them from the wiles of an especially charming vampire. Knightly Medicine. As an action while holding Ser Boncou Rage, you can speak the command phrase “Bon courage!” followed by one of the commands below. The armed and armoured glass bottle bounds into life for 1 minute. It is a Tiny construct with AC 15, 15 hit points, a walking speed of 30 feet, a Strength score of 5, immunity to poison and psychic damage, immunity to all conditions except grappled and restrained, and it can’t attack. If it drops to 0 hit points, it loses its magic and is destroyed. It has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. Ser Boncou Rage takes its turn immediately after yours. As part of the action to activate it, and as a bonus action on subsequent turns, you can give it one of the following instructions to use as its action on its next turn, which expends the listed number of charges: Snap Out of It! (1 charge). Ser Boncou Rage yells at a creature within 30 feet of it. If that creature can hear the yell and is charmed, frightened, or stunned by an effect that lets it repeat the saving throw to end the condition at the end of each of its turns, the creature can immediately repeat one such saving throw of its choice. Once More into the Breach! (2 charges). Ser Boncou Rage lets out a gallant yell. Up to four creatures of its choice within 30 feet of it, other than itself, gain a d4 if they can hear the yell. Once within the next minute, a creature can roll the die and add the number rolled to one ability check, attack roll, or saving throw it makes. The creature can wait until after it rolls the d20 before deciding to use the die, but must decide before the GM says whether the roll succeeds or fails. Once the die is rolled, it is lost. A creature can’t use this die in conjunction with a Bardic Inspiration die. Freedom! (3 charges). Ser Boncou Rage pours its contents into the mouth of a willing creature whose space it shares. For 1 minute, the creature is immune to the charmed and frightened conditions.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: uncommon

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

