# Serpentis the Snakeblade

**description**: Serpentis the Snakeblade Weapon (Longsword), Artifact (requires attunement by an elf or half-elf) Serpentis was once Ismatun, a young moonblade in service of the noble elves of the wandering pyramid of Shekrish. However, when the serpentaurs of Shekrish betrayed their elven masters, they claimed Ismatun as one of the spoils of their treachery. Seeking to subvert the blade’s will, serpentaur priests infused Ismatun with ophidian magic, warping its form in an attempt to wield its mythical power. This torturous process lasted for decades, and while the serpentaurs never managed to subdue and control the blade’s personality, the mighty sword transformed, becoming the Snakeblade, Serpentis. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. It has the finesse property and deals an extra 2d8 slashing damage and an extra 2d6 poison damage to any targets it hits. Serpentis makes you immune to poison and the poisoned condition, and grants you blindsight out to 60 feet. It has the following additional properties: Whip Sword. As a bonus action, you can cause Serpentis to transform, extending its segments to become a whip sword and gain the reach property. You can use another bonus action to retract the segments again. While Serpentis is extended, you can use the Attack action to make a special restraining attack on a large or smaller creature. If you are able to make multiple attacks with the Attack action, this attack replaces one of them. You make an attack roll contested by the target’s Strength (Athletics) check or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. If you win the contest, the attack deals no damage and you submit the target to the restrained condition as Serpentis wraps around it. While the sword holds a target restrained, you can only use it to attack that target and you do so with advantage due to the restrained condition. A restrained creature can use its action to escape. To do so, it must succeed on a Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check contested by an attack roll with Serpentis. You make this special roll when a target attempts to escape (no action required). Ophidian Master. While attuned to Serpentis, you can cast animal messenger , speak with animals, and animal friendship at will, targeting only snakes. Serpentine Fear. As an action, you can instill fear into any snake or serpentaur of your choice within 60 feet. These targets must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to this effect for the next 24 hours. Sentience. Serpentis is a sentient lawful neutral weapon with an Intelligence of 12, a Wisdom of 10, and a Charisma of 18. It has hearing, darkvision, and blindsight out to a range of 120 feet. It can communicate with its wielder telepathically. The weapon knows Elvish, Celestial, and Draconic, as well as any languages its wielder knows. It hisses when it senses enemies, and its segments rattle threateningly when used in combat. Personality. After decades of torture in the hands of treacherous serpentaur priests, Serpentis harbors a seething hatred for anyone who would betray and seek to harm the elven race. It regards all serpentaurs, even those who never betrayed the sun elves, with extreme prejudice. Serpentis will not serve anyone it considers an enemy of elvenkind. If the blade believes you acted against the common interest of elvenkind, it ends your attunement to it immediately and if you are in physical contact with the blade when that happens, you must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, you take 20d6 poison damage and become poisoned for 1d4 days. When poisoned that way, you are incapacitated. On a successful save, you take half as much damage and aren’t poisoned by this effect. The blade secretly harbors a deep desire to come into contact with pure moonblades and be accepted for what it has become. If Serpentis believes its wielder can physically move it within 5 feet of a pure moonblade, it will try to persuade its wielder to facilitate a meeting. As long as it remains within 5 feet of a moonblade that accepts it, Serpentis can communicate telepathically with it. Optional Rule: Memories of Elvenkind At the gamemaster’s discretion, Serpentis can sense sources of elven magic, including other elven-made sentient items, and guide its wielder to forgotten fonts of elven power. The extent of this ability is up to each gamemaster and may enable the blade to cast divination spells like locate object and legend lore requiring no components. The blade decides when to cast these spells and how to use them and maintains concentration on them so that its wielder doesn’t have to. The blade’s eagerness to seek out elven magic and especially pure moonblades can lead to many exciting adventures. Adventure Hook: Ismatun’s Redemption At the gamemaster’s discretion, Serpentis may seek to be cleansed of ophidian magic and restored to its former state as the pure moonblade Ismatun. Among the steps required for its redemption, Serpentis might have to forgive its serpentaur tormentors, seek out the guidance of several pure moonblades, or prove itself beyond any doubt that it serves elvenkind.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Weapon (Longsword)
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by an elf or half-elf

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

