# Servile Shabti, Healer

**description**: Wondrous item, very rare Crafted to serve in place of the dead in the afterlife, shabti are often used by the living for their own ends. These 1-foot-tall statuettes are crafted of ceramic, stone, or terracotta and are garbed in gear indicative of their function. If you use an action to speak the command word and throw the shabti to a point on the ground within 30 feet of you, it grows into a Medium construct that performs the tasks for which it was created. If the space where the shabti would grow is occupied by other creatures or objects, or if there isn’t enough space for the shabti, the shabti doesn’t grow. Unless stated otherwise in an individual shabti’s description, a servile shabti uses the statistics of animated armor, except the servile shabti’s Armor Class is 13, and it doesn’t have the Multiattack or Slam actions. When the shabti is motionless, it is indistinguishable from a ceramic, stone, or terracotta statue, rather than a suit of armor. The shabti is friendly to you and your companions, and it acts immediately after you. It understands your languages and obeys your spoken commands (no action required by you unless specified in the shabti’s description). If you issue no commands, the shabti takes the Dodge action and no other actions. The shabti exists for a duration specific to each shabti. At the end of the duration, it reverts to its statuette form. It reverts to a statuette early if it drops to 0 hit points or if you use an action to speak the command word again while touching it. When the shabti becomes a statuette again, its property can’t be used again until a certain amount of time has passed, as specified in the shabti’s description. Healer Shabti (Very Rare). This shabti is dressed in scholarly robes and carries a bag of medical supplies. It is proficient with a healer’s kit, has Medicine +7, and tends to the wounds of you and your companions. If directed to administer care when you take a short rest, the shabti can tend the wounds of up to six creatures over the course of the hour. Each creature that spends Hit Dice to regain hit points during that short rest increases the amount gained per Hit Die by 2, up to the maximum number that can be rolled. The shabti follows you and tends to the wounds of you and your companions, as directed, for up to 8 hours before reverting to statuette form. While the shabti is active, you can use a bonus action to command it to cast cure wounds (4th-level version), lesser restoration , or protection from poison on one creature you can see within 30 feet of you on its next turn. The shabti can cast each spell only once. When it has cast all three spells, the shabti reverts to statuette form, even if its normal duration hasn’t ended. Once the shabti has been used, it can’t be used again until 5 days have passed.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: very rare

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

