# Servile Shabti, Farmer

**description**: Wondrous item, rarity varies Crafted to serve in place of the dead in the afterlife, shabti are often used by the living for their own ends. These 1-foot-tall statuettes are crafted of ceramic, stone, or terracotta and are garbed in gear indicative of their function. If you use an action to speak the command word and throw the shabti to a point on the ground within 30 feet of you, it grows into a Medium construct that performs the tasks for which it was created. If the space where the shabti would grow is occupied by other creatures or objects, or if there isn’t enough space for the shabti, the shabti doesn’t grow. Unless stated otherwise in an individual shabti’s description, a servile shabti uses the statistics of animated armor, except the servile shabti’s Armor Class is 13, and it doesn’t have the Multiattack or Slam actions. When the shabti is motionless, it is indistinguishable from a ceramic, stone, or terracotta statue, rather than a suit of armor. The shabti is friendly to you and your companions, and it acts immediately after you. It understands your languages and obeys your spoken commands (no action required by you unless specified in the shabti’s description). If you issue no commands, the shabti takes the Dodge action and no other actions. The shabti exists for a duration specific to each shabti. At the end of the duration, it reverts to its statuette form. It reverts to a statuette early if it drops to 0 hit points or if you use an action to speak the command word again while touching it. When the shabti becomes a statuette again, its property can’t be used again until a certain amount of time has passed, as specified in the shabti’s description. Farmer Shabti (Rare). This shabti carries farming implements. If you activate it in an area with sufficient soil and a climate suitable for growing crops, the shabti begins tilling the earth and planting seeds it carries, which are magically replenished during its time in statuette form. The shabti tends its field, magically bringing the crops to full growth and harvesting them in a period of 8 hours. The yield from the harvest is enough to feed up to twelve creatures for 7 days, and the crops remain edible for 30 days before perishing. Alternately, the shabti can spend 10 minutes planting magical crops. The magical crops take 30 minutes to grow and harvest and 30 minutes to consume. Up to twelve creatures can consume the magical crops, gaining benefits as if partaking in a heroes’ feast . The benefits don’t set in until 30 minutes after the crops were harvested, and any uneaten crops disappear at that time. Once the shabti is used to perform either function, the shabti returns to statuette form, and it can’t be used again until 30 days have passed.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: rare

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

