# Seryl the Laughing Bow

**description**: Seryl the Laughing Bow Ranged weapon (martial, longbow), legendary (requires attunement by a creature of good alignment) Seryl is an elven longbow, crafted over five hundred years ago from serren, a rare and exotic wood found on the first layer of Arborea. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, while attuned to the weapon, you can cast the calm emotions and faerie fire spells three times per day each. When you cast these spells, you do not require any material components and your spell save DC is 15. Aversion to Violence. While attuned to Seryl, you gain the effect of a sanctuary spell at the end of every long rest. This lasts until the start of your next long rest (the spell can end early as normal). The save DC for the spell is 15. Distracting Chuckle. When a creature you can see within 30 feet of you makes an attack against you, you can use your reaction to cause Seryl to release a distracting giggle and impose disadvantage on the creature’s attack roll. After you have successfully used this feature, you cannot use it again until you finish a long rest. Good Listener. While attuned to the weapon, you gain proficiency in the Insight and Persuasion skills. In addition, if you talk to a creature for more than five minutes, you have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to negotiate peace with or calm that creature until you next finish a long rest. Sentience. Seryl is a sentient chaotic good weapon with an Intelligence of 10, a Wisdom of 15, and a Charisma of 15. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. Seryl can speak, read, and understand Elvish, and can communicate telepathically with its wielder and any creature within 30 feet of it. While you are attuned to it, Seryl also understands every language you know. Personality. Although it is over five hundred years old, Seryl views the world with a child’s sense of wonder. For reasons that elude it, Seryl finds dwarves especially hilarious and enjoys spending time around them, laughing at their jokes and marveling at their tales. It does not enjoy inflicting pain on others and strongly advocates taking prisoners over needless slaughter. Ammunition. You can use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if you have ammunition to fire from the weapon. Each time you attack with the weapon, you expend one piece of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, case, or other container is part of the attack (you need a free hand to load a one-­‐‑handed weapon). At the end of the battle, you can recover half your expended ammunition by taking a minute to search the battlefield. If you use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a melee attack, you treat the weapon as an improvised weapon. A sling must be loaded to deal any damage when used in this way. Heavy. Small creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls with heavy weapons. A heavy weapon’s size and bulk make it too large for a Small creature to use effectively. Two-­Handed. This weapon requires two hands when you attack with it. Damage: 1d8 Damage Type: Piercing Modifiers: Ranged Attacks +3, Ranged Damage +3 Properties: Ammunition, Heavy, Range, Two-Handed Range: 150/600 Weight: 2

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Ammunition, Heavy, Range, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by a creature of good alignment

**publisher**: Viscount Games

**book**: Drizzts Travelogue of Everything

