# Shard of Destiny

**description**: Wondrous item, artifact When the omniverse was formed and the forces of creation shaped the infinite planes of existence, an anchor was created in each Material Plane that acts as the center of a planar multiverse. These motes of creation are responsible for the stability of the multiverse to which they are tethered, and will seek out a group of champions when the existence or balance of their domain is threatened. When a great calamity is on the horizon or a catastrophic plan is put into motion, an inexperienced and unknown adventuring party may suddenly come upon a bronze tetrahedron whose four triangular faces are coated in an infinitely descending array of triangle fractals. These adventuring parties, more often than not, manage to amass powerful magic items and increase their fame at an incredible rate, eventually facing off with and defeating the grand threat. Spoken of in legend, it is believed that these small, pyramid-like structures alter the fate of those they encounter, leading speculative planar scholars to call them the Shards of Destiny . Party Bond. Any attempt to attune to the Shard of Destiny fails. Spending an hour attempting to attune to the Shard or casting the identify spell on it doesn’t reveal its name or its full magical properties, but does reveal a 1-hour ritual that can be performed to bond it to a group of adventurers, tying their fates together. Each member of the adventuring party must touch the Shard for the duration of the ritual, during which the faces of the Shard subdivide along its fractals, slowly revealing the mote of creation at its core. Once the core is fully revealed and comes into contact with each member of the adventuring party, they become bonded to the Shard and learn its full magical properties, and the Shard ’s faces reappear around its core. When the ritual is completed, roll for or choose from the Destined Trios table a number of times equal to the number of creatures who became bonded to the Shard , rerolling repeats if not every trio has been selected. The statistics for the Giant’s Bane trio of magic items can be found in the Dungeon Master’s Guide ; each other trio’s items can be found in this chapter. The Shard ’s bond with the party can’t be broken unless every member of the party dies and none of them are revived within 7 days. A creature who plans to permanently join the bonded party can become bonded to the Shard by performing its ritual, rolling or choosing a new trio if the number of party members has increased, though the Shard can reject the creature at the DM’s discretion. Destined Trios d6 Trio First Item Second Item Culmination Item 1 Giant’s Bane gauntlets of ogre power belt of fire giant strength hammer of thunderbolts 2 Journey of a Lifetime boots of trekking staff of wandering cloak of adventuring 3 Sanguine Ascension armor of blood drinking weapon of bloodletting helm of exsanguination 4 Spell Weaver rod of wefting wand of warping ring of weaving 5 Super Heroic cape of heroic presence suit of heroic prowess mask of heroic cunning 6 Transcend Material blindfold of seeing muffle of speech hood of hearing Destiny Calls. As an action, a creature bonded to the Shard of Destiny can touch it and learn the direction to the closest magic item from the First Item column of the Destined Trios table that is part of a trio chosen for the Party Bond. If a bonded party member is attuned to the closest item, the Shard instead points to the closest one to which no bonded party member is attuned. Once each bonded party member is attuned to a First Item from the chosen trios, the Shard instead points to the nearest Second Item from them, and once each bonded party member is attuned to a Second Item from the chosen trios, it points to the nearest Culmination Item from them. While a bonded party member is attuned to a Culmination Item, the Shard grants the bonded party a benefit based on the Culmination Item: Cloak of adventuring . While the attuned creature is wearing the cloak, each other bonded party member gains a climbing speed and a swimming speed each equal to its base walking speed, is considered naturally adapted to any environment it occupies, and is immune to the effects of extreme temperatures. Hammer of thunderbolts . While the attuned creature is holding the maul, the Strength score, Constitution Score, and score maximums for both abilities of each bonded party member is increased by 2, to a maximum of 30. This Constitution score increase affects the creature’s hit point maximum, but not its current number of hit points. Helm of exsanguination . While the attuned creature is wearing the helm, whenever it has its hit point maximum reduced, each other bonded party member gains temporary hit points equal to half the reduction. Hood of hearing . While the attuned creature is wearing the hood, each other bonded party member gains blindsight and telepathy each to a range of 30 feet. A creature doesn’t have to share a language with the bonded party member to understand its telepathic speech, but it must understand at least one language. Mask of heroic cunning . While the attuned creature is wearing the mask, each other bonded party member gains a +1 bonus to any ability check, attack roll, damage roll, or saving throw it makes. If it gains a bonus to the roll from both this benefit and a magic item other than the Shard , it uses the higher of the two bonuses, not the combination; this bonus stacks with the Shard ’s other benefits. Ring of weaving . While the attuned creature is wearing the ring, once during each of its turns when it casts a spell, it can choose one of the following bonuses to grant to each other bonded party member until the start of the start of the caster’s next turn: a +2 bonus to AC, a +2 bonus to damage rolls, or a +2 bonus to saving throws. Once each bonded party member is attuned to a Culmination Item, using this action causes the creature to learn the direction of the threat the shard chose the party to defeat. In most cases, this is the campaign’s ultimate villain or the climax of the campaign, but can be the tarrasque at the DM’s option. Multiversal Anchor. Each Shard of Destiny is anchored to the multiverse for which it was created. Any attempt to take it to a different Material Plane or a plane in the omniverse that is connected to a different Material Plane, such as with the dream of the blue veil TCE spell, fails. The bonded party successfully travels to the other multiverse, but the Shard remains behind in its own multiverse, eager to rejoin them when they return. The party retains their bond to the Shard while they are within the other multiverse, but they don’t gain any of the Shard ’s benefits. Destroying the Shard. When each other member of the bonded party is dead and the last remaining bonded party member dies, the Shard of Destiny ’s core becomes exposed for 1 minute. While the core is exposed, targeting it with a spell of 9th level or higher, or hitting it with an attack using a magic weapon with a rarity of legendary or artifact or by a creature of CR 25 or higher, destroys the Shard . Once a Shard is destroyed, its multiverse begins to collapse in on itself over the course of 100 days, at the end of which its Material Plane and whatever else remains of its multiverse crumbles into nothingness and is irrevocably destroyed.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: artifact

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

