# Shard of Moonlight

**description**: Shard of Moonlight Trick weapon (longsword, greatsword), artifact (requires attunement) This weapon is the flesh of a Great One carved away in pain and fashioned into a blade. The Shard of Moonlight is the reason the Shattered Moon exists and the Devouring Moon is no more. He who wields the blade is overwhelmed by hope, however misguided it might be… While attuned to this weapon, you gain the following benefits: You are proficient with greatswords and longswords. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, and the blade deals an extra 1d6 radiant damage on a hit. You have advantage on Wisdom saving throws, except those made to resist madness. You can use this shard as a spellcasting focus. Sentience. The Shard of Moonlight is a sentient weapon, with the same personality as the Great One whose flesh it was carved from. The weapon sporadically communicates telepathically with its wielder through images and sounds, though it doesn’t speak. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In its untransformed state, the blade is a metallic longsword that absorbs light. In its transformed state, the weapon is a greatsword that pulses with lunar energy. In both states, this weapon has the light property. Untransformed. The blade seems to guide your strikes. Once on each of your turns when you make an attack with the shard, you can immediately make a second attack (no action required). It has the Void Absorption property. Void Absorption. The void that fills the blade is capable of absorbing magic. While holding the untransformed shard, you can use your reaction to absorb a spell that is targeting you, including spells with an area of effect. The absorbed spell's effect is canceled, and the spell's energy—not the spell itself—is stored in the shard in the form of charges. The number of charges gained is equivalent to the level of the spell when it was cast (minimum of 1 for cantrips). The shard can absorb and store up to 10 charges. If the shard doesn’t have enough empty charges for a spell, it fails to absorb it. The blade regains all charges each time the moon changes. Transformed. To transform this blade, you must use a bonus action while under direct moonlight. The transformation lasts for 1 minute, or until you end it early as a bonus action. When it transforms, you can expend the charges stored within the blade, and when the blade loses all charges, the transformation ends. While the blade is transformed, the extra radiant damage it deals on a hit increases from 1d6 to 2d6. Each time you make an attack in the transformed state, you can expend a number of charges to create special effects: Revealing Glow. As part of making an attack, you can expend 1 charge to empower the shard. On a hit, it deals an extra 1d12 radiant damage, and until the start of your next turn, the target sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius. While affected by the light, attack rolls against the target have advantage if the attacker can see them, and the affected target can't turn invisible. Transient Moonlight. As part of making an attack, you can expend 2 charges to release a wave of moonlight where the shard slashes, creating a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long line of moonlight in front of you. A creature in the path of the moonlight must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 2d12 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Lunar Explosion. Instead of making an attack, you can expend 3 charges to raise the shard upward and release a burst of moonlight energy. Each creature within 30 feet of you must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d12 radiant damage and is knocked prone on a failed save, or half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone on a successful one. If a creature falls prone within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to immediately make a melee weapon attack against them with the shard. *Roll20 Note: Add the Shard of Moonlight (Longsword) to your sheet for full functionality.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Two-Handed, Light
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

