# Shirabara Daikyu, Yukihana’s White Rib

**description**: Shirabara Daikyu, Yukihana’s White Rib Weapon (Longbow), Evolving Artifact (requires attunement) It was a dark day for the white dragonkind when Yukihana, one of the white dragonfather’s favorite daughters, fell in battle during the Civil Dragonwars. Yukihana’s fate was torment beyond death, as Odon, the warring god of eternal life, captured her soul and laid claim on her remains, transforming her into a fearsome undead dragon under his dark command. During the transformation, Yukihana’s entire clutch was destroyed except for one last egg out of which hatched Miyuki, Yukihana’s youngest daughter. Yukihana’s adult offspring were able to recover only a single rib from her remains during her terrifying transformation, and the monster that Yukihana had become has been plaguing the white dragonkind ever since. A century later, Miyuki, now a young white dragon hiding in mortal form to escape the wrath of the gods, crafted a fearsome bow out of her mother’s white rib, vowing to lay her spirit to rest. Shirabara Daikyu, Yukihana’s White Rib retains a hint of Yukihana’s spirit, guiding whoever wields it to defend dragons against the warring gods. Now, the bow is waiting for a worthy champion to unlock its true potential. Snowflake. While attuned to this bow, you gain the following benefits: You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic bow. While holding the bow, you can use a bonus action to create 20 dragonfrost arrows. These arrows ignore half cover and resistance to cold damage. After ten minutes, dragonfrost arrows melt into fresh mountain water. Flurry Maiden (level 11). After you reach level 11, the bow increases in power, gaining the following additional properties: The weapon’s bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. The bow deals an extra 1d8 cold damage to any target it hits. You gain resistance to cold damage. When you hit a large or smaller creature with an attack using this bow, the creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have their speed reduced to half until the start of your next turn. White Lady (level 17). After you reach level 17, the bow achieves its full potential, gaining the following additional properties: The weapon’s bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. The extra cold damage increases to 2d8. You gain immunity to cold damage. When you hit a huge or smaller creature with an attack using this bow, the creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or have their speed reduced to 0 until the start of your next turn. Optional Rule: Story-Based Evolution Shirabara Daikyu is an evolving artifact that is typically found in its basic, Snowflake state. At the gamemaster’s discretion, the longbow’s evolution can be tied to significant events during the campaign, such as its wielder avenging Yukihana’s spirit or striking a serious blow against the tyranny of Odon, the warring god of eternal life.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Weapon (Longbow)
- Item Rarity: evolving artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

