# Skin Cloak

**description**: Wondrous item, Hag, Legendary (attunement) Attuning to a skin cloak is an evil act. These cloaks are very rare and only a few hags know how to make one properly. Skin cloaks are made by using the skin of a humanoid, and that is exactly what they look like. A skin cloak cannot be mistaken for anything pleasant. Sewing humanoid skin with humanoid hair is not as difficult as keeping a flayed humanoid alive during the process. Any humanoid watching this crafting, regardless of alignment, is at serious risk for having horror or insanity complications. The hag, but usually an entire coven, will work as quickly as possible to sew the cloak together before the flayed victim dies. All attempts to magically keep a victim alive or sedated end up with cloaks with no magical properties. A coven of hags has to expect to “practice” this a few times with various natural substances and techniques before they get it right. Skin cloaks are not made very often because of the immediate hatred and anger sentient creatures react with when they see a creature wearing a skin cloak. The skin cloak does not function if it is covered or glamoured, therefore the wearer has given up on all pretext of interacting with civilization in a hidden or subtle way. The rarity of these cloaks means that they are gifted to a non-hag only in the strangest and rarest of situations. The cloak gives magical properties based on the humanoid skin and hair that makes it up. And there are no known versions of mixed race skin cloaks. The known varieties are elven, gnomish, human, and orc skin cloaks. Elven Skin Cloak. This cloak grants +3 bonus to all ability saving throws. The cloak’s design is obvious if an observer gets within 40 feet of the wearer and most humanoids will either attack the wearer on sight or flee. Fey, other than hags, will immediately attack anyone wearing this if they believe they can kill the wearer. It isn’t understood why the fey react so negatively to this skin cloak and not the other varieties. Gnomish Skin Cloak. This cloak grants immunity to the entire school of illusion. The wearer can see invisible creatures and ignore illusionary defenses ( mirror image for example) if the target is within 30 feet of the wearer. Human Skin Cloak. This cloak affects all friendly and enemy sentient living creatures (other than those with the unaligned alignment) who are within 30 feet, and sight, of the wearer. Those targets have disadvantage when using Charisma abilities against the wearer, and the wearer has advantage on any Charisma saving throws if the source of the attack is within 30 feet of the wearer. This cloak also grants immunity to all suggestion spells. Orcish Skin Cloak. This cloak has only been made once and it was for a long dead annis hag that loved battle more than anything: to include her own life. The wearer of this cloak is granted the abilities of rage and mindless rage as per the Barbarian berserker class features found in the Player’s Handbook . The wearer can go into this berserker state at will. This ability cannot be turned off until all foes within sight are dead. If the wearer of this cloak rages for ten consecutive rounds, then they must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. At the end of a combat encounter the wearer must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. A wearer facing multiple battles between long rests could easily die from exhaustion while wearing this cloak. If the wearer is immune to exhaustion then this cloak grants them no powers.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: Legendary
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: Cruor Games

**book**: The Complete Hag

