# Soulgate Staff

**description**: During the dragon wars that eventually led to the end of the old world, six archmages decided to try and stop the dragon gods that threatened all of Virthys. Together, the mighty Tandharil Council created the Soulgate Staff. Their intention was to send the draconic deities back to their home planes. Their plan might have worked with a less powerful opponent, but the Tandharil overestimated themselves. As they faced Myrzakliaz, the dragon god of betrayal and trickery, they attempted to use the Soulgate Staff on the mighty beast. Instead of forcing him to return to his home plane, they merely offended Myrzakliaz. The fate of the Tandharil Council is unknown. The only certain thing is that the dragon god punished them harshly, and left the Soulgate Staff unattended. It is unknown where the artifact is today. Magic schools: Abjuration, Conjuration, Evocation, Transmutation Cost: Priceless Magic properties: The Soulgate Staff is a unique artifact that requires attunement by a spellcaster. To attune, you have to cast one of your highest-level spells on the staff, which is consumed by the item’s own magic. Once attuned, it grants the following beneficial properties: You gain Advantage on any Intelligence (Arcana) check. You are immune to being charmed or otherwise mind-controlled. For any spell that is cast on you, you can choose to make an Intelligence Saving Throw against the caster’s Spell Save DC. On a success, you can redirect the spell at a different target within twenty feet of you. The spell is handled as if it had been cast at the new target, but limits to spell range are ignored. You can wield the Soulgate Staff as a quarterstaff. On a successful hit, you can cast Imprisonment on the target as an instant effect, without requiring components. The only available option is the Minimus Containment, which imprisons the target into the gem embedded in the staff. If there already is a creature imprisoned this way, it is instantly released as the new target is captured. Soulgate. Once a day, you can cast the spell Gate without requiring material components. The staff is so powerful that it creates a rift between planes. Even if something blocks access to other planes, the staff is still capable of casting its magic. Alternatively, in the presence of a creature from another plane, you can use a variation of the spell called Soulgate. The target of your spell has to succeed on an Intelligence Saving Throw against your Spell Save DC. On a failure, the creature’s own soul tears open a rift to its home plane. Once the gate is open, you can attempt to command the creature to return to its home through the gate. It has to make another Intelligence Saving Throw against your Spell Save DC. On a failure, it is transformed into a silvery mist, which gets sucked into the gate. Once on the other side, the creature transforms back into its original shape. It cannot act until the end of your next turn. Tulacc knew the ring was here somewhere. The vault was full of treasure and magic items, too much for him to carry, so he had to choose wisely. That ring which could make him invisible would be perfect for future raids! Using his arcane goggles, he glanced over all the items that showed the arcane shine. And there it was! The ring lay on the ground, right besides a weird-looking staff. Tulacc glanced at the staff for a moment, and the goggles instantly showed him that only spellcasters could use it. What a worthless crap. He grabbed the ring and everything else he had gathered, and quickly left the vault again...

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 26136
- Item Type: Staff
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Arcane Items 1

