# Spellsling Slingshot

**description**: Weapon (sling or slingshot), uncommon (optional attunement) Component: phial of humanoid (spellcaster) blood “Why should spell scrolls only be usable by those who’ve learned to cast spells?” During her brief tenure as wizard de-punification coach at the Academia Magicalis, Heliana commissioned this magical slingshot so that she, too, could do the magically sparkly things. This sling has 4 charges and regains 1d4 expended charges daily at dawn. Omnicast. You can use this weapon as a spellcasting focus for your spells. When you do so, the spell takes the appearance of a little sphere of swirling magic, and is shot from the weapon. In addition, you can use an action to insert a spell scroll into the compartment in the weapon’s handle. While the weapon contains a spell scroll, you can cast the spell in it regardless of whether or not it’s on your class’s spell list. If you are normally unable to cast spells, you must make the ability check to determine whether you cast the spell from the scroll successfully for any level of spell, using Intelligence as your spellcasting ability. The scroll is destroyed as normal once the spell is cast. Optional Attunement. If you choose to attune to this item, you can use the Scholastic Madness property while you remain attuned to it. OA: Scholastic Madness. Once per turn, when you make an attack with this weapon, you can expend 1 charge to imbue the ammunition with unpredictable power from one of the eight schools of magic. Roll a d8 and consult the table below to determine the outcome. d8 School Effect 1 Abjuration Hit or miss, the projectile returns to orbit you, granting you a +2 bonus to AC until the start of your next turn. 2 Conjuration On a hit, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be teleported to an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within 20 feet of it. The chosen space must be on a surface or in a liquid that can support the target without the target having to squeeze. 3 Divination You gain advantage on all attacks made with this weapon against the target, including this one, until the end of your next turn. 4 Enchantment On a hit, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you until the end of its next turn. 5 Evocation On a hit, the target takes an extra 1d4 acid, 1d4 cold, 1d4 fire, and 1d4 lightning damage. 6 Illusion On a hit, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of you until the end of its next turn. 7 Necromancy On a hit, the target takes an extra 1d6 necrotic damage, and you regain an equal number of hit points. 8 Transmutation On a hit, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be transformed into a rat, as per the polymorph spell (no concentration required), until the end of its next turn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (Slingshot)
- Properties: Ammunition (range 20/60), Two-handed
- Item Rarity: uncommon
- Requires Attunement: optional attunement

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

