# Spirit Blade

**description**: War has been part of the old world for a long time. Religious zealots, knights sworn to defend their homelands and others were willing to give their lives for a cause. Some of them went even further: They agreed to have their spirits bound to a blade after death. Clerics marked their willing spirits before they went into battle. When one of of these warriors died on the battlefield, the soul and the animating spirit were split apart. As the soul went on to the afterlife, the spirit was drawn into the blade, so they could eternally serve whatever cause they believed in. Each Spirit Blade is filled with dozens of such spirits, all united by a cause and often a home land. Once attuned, the wielder of the blade can communicate with the spirits once a day using the wielder’s native language. Attuning requires to convince the spirits that you share their cause (whether true or not). Once attuned, the hilt of the sword glows in a subtle green light when carried by the wielder. The spirits can be seen in the blade, constantly moving through the metal as dark shadows. Magic schools: Necromancy Cost: 12.000 gp Damage: 1d8+2 slashing + 1d4 necrotic Magic properties: You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this weapon. Attunement requires meditation to commune with the spirits within the blade, a ritual taking 8 hours to perform. Once you are attuned to the weapon, you gain access to the following additional features. As you hit an enemy, a shadow-like mirror of the blade appears, causing an additional 1d4 points of necrotic damage. Once a day, you can cast the spell Speak with Dead by touching a corpse with the tip of the blade. You can also use the spell to commune with the spirits within the blade. Keep in mind they are bound to the weapon since its creation and have no knowledge past that time. Arthi’s small hand was just large enough to grab the hilt. “Bruthon the Divider, you said, right? Yes, totally, a glorious deity. What exactly made you fight for him?” Dozens of whispering voices answered at the same time, turning into a discordant, incomprehensible noise. “Stop! Again, one at a time, please. I get you haven’t spoken to anyone in years, but I just don’t understand you that way.” The blade went silent for a moment, then a single voice spoke up. “Conflict is the natural state of life. Look at nature itself: Prey and predators are everywhere. Bruthon teaches how to not be the prey. He is the king of survivors, loyal only to himself, as all of us should be.” Arthi frowned. “But... aren’t you loyal to Bruthon?” Again, the blade went silent. Suddenly, a different voice spoke up. “Bruthon is not just a god, he embodies a concept! And we are loyal to this idea, the credo, and through it to ourselves.” “I... yeah, I guess, that makes sense.” Arthi shook her head. It did not make any sense to her, but the spirits didn’t need to know that. “You mentioned earlier that you died in a battle against the knights of Vendale, right? Because, believe it or not, their order is exactly what I’m up against right now.” Arthi had never heard of the knights of Vendale before. But, again, the spirits didn’t need to know that.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 26136
- Item Type: Weapon (Longsword)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Braythe RPG

**book**: Braythe - Arcane Items 1

