# Staff of Elemental Mastery

**description**: Staff of Elemental Mastery Staff, Shattered Artifact (requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard) When all pieces have been recovered, the Staff of Elemental Mastery is made whole again. This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you gain a +3 bonus to Armor Class, saving throws, and spell attack rolls. While attuned to the staff, you have resistance to cold, fire, and lightning damage; as well as to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. Additionally, you can hold your breath indefinitely while you’re not incapacitated and you can breathe air and water, you can move across difficult terrain made of earth or stone without expending extra movement, you have a swimming speed of 30 feet, and you have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, attuning to the staff increases its range by 60 feet. Moreover, you can speak, read, and write all Primordial dialects. The staff has 50 charges for the following properties. It regains 5d8 + 10 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 20, the staff regains 5d4 + 5 charges. Spells. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spell attack bonus: Air Spells: fly (3 charges), gust of wind (2 charges), gaseous form (3 charges), wind control (5 charges), wind wall (3 charges), or whirlwind (7 charges). Earth Spells: catapult object (1 charge), earthquake (8 charges), move earth (6 charges), rock transmutation (5 charges), stone shape (4 charges), or wall of stone (5 charges). Fire Spells: burning hands (1 charge), fire storm (7 charges), fireball (3 charges), flaming sphere (2 charges), scorching ray (2 charges), or wall of fire (4 charges). Water Spells: cone of cold (5 charges), control water (4 charges), fog cloud (1 charge), tsunami (8 charges), wall of ice (6 charges), or water walk (3 charges). You can also use an action or reaction (as determined by each spell’s casting time and reaction trigger) to cast one of the following spells from the staff without expending any charges, using your spell save DC and spell attack bonus: absorb elements, chromatic sphere, color spray, levitate, or shield. Elemental Cantrip Mastery. While holding the staff, you can cast the following cantrips at will. If you already know any of the following cantrips, the staff allows you to cast them using your bonus action: bonfire, earth mold, fire bolt, flame control, frostnip, minor gust, produce flame, ray of frost, shocking grasp, or water shape. Avatar of the Elements. While holding the staff, you can use your action and expend 10 charges to choose one of the four elements this staff commands and transform into an avatar of that element. While transformed this way, you gain the following benefits: You gain immunity to the damage types associated with the chosen element of your transformation: bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage for earth; cold damage for water; fire damage for fire; and lightning damage for air. When you use the staff to cast one of the spells associated with the chosen element of your transformation, that spell does not consume any charges. You can use your reaction to automatically cancel or redirect a spell cast or a magical effect created within 120 feet of you that deals damage associated with the chosen element of your transformation, unless the spell or effect had been created by a deity or originated from another artifact. If the spell or effect has one or more targets, you can choose different targets for that spell or effect. This transformation lasts for 1 minute, until you end it early (no action required), until you use this feature again to transform into an avatar of another element, or until you cast a spell that deals any other type of damage except the damage types associated with the chosen element of your transformation.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Staff
- Item Rarity: shattered artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

