# Staff of the Spellmaster

**description**: Staff of the Spellmaster Staff, Evolving Artifact (requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard) Myth has it that an ancient arcanist once unlocked the secrets of every spell known to mortalkind and became known as the Spellmaster. Believing they had reached the apex of their power, the Spellmaster sought to channel all their arcane knowledge into an unbreakable staff and use it as a conduit to achieve immortality through a ritual of their own devise. The ritual was successful, but along with all knowledge, the Spellmaster unintentionally channeled their own essence, soul, and magic into the staff, becoming one with it and leaving their mortal body behind. Transformed into an ageless, unbreakable staff, the Spellmaster looked within for meaning and purpose, eventually falling into a deep, trance-like sleep that lasted for ages. Now, the ancient arcanist slumbers within the staff, waiting for a mage capable enough to rouse them from their sleep and awaken their true power. Slumbering Sage. While attuned to this staff, you gain the following benefits: While holding the staff, you can cast any spell you know or have prepared that’s half your level (rounded down) without expending a spell slot. Once you cast a spell that way, you can’t do so again until the next dawn. When an enemy successfully casts dispel magic on you, only half of the spells active on you end automatically (minimum of one), and any ability checks to end spell effects on you against your will are made with disadvantage. Awakened Arcanist (level 5). After you reach level 5, the staff increases in power, gaining the following additional properties: You gain a +1 bonus to spell attack rolls and to the saving throw DCs of your spells. You have advantage on Constitution saving throws that you make to maintain concentration on spells. The staff gains 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spellcasting ability modifier: counterspell (3 charges), or dispel magic (3 charges). The staff regains all expended charges daily at dawn. Master Mage (level 11). After you reach level 11, the staff is further empowered, gaining the following additional properties: The bonus to spell attack rolls and to the saving throw DCs of your spells increases to +2. You gain a second reaction that you can only use to cast counterspell . The staff’s charges increase to 20 and the following spells are added to the spells you can cast from it: counterspell (4th-level version, 4 charges), dispel magic (4th-level version, 4 charges), and globe of invulnerability (6 charges). Spellmaster Supreme (level 17). After you reach level 17, the staff achieves its full potential, gaining the following additional properties: The bonus to spell attack rolls and to the saving throw DCs of your spells increases to +3. The staff’s charges increase to 50 and the following spells are added to the spells you can cast from it: antimagic field (8 charges), counterspell (5th-level version, 5 charges), dispel magic (5th-level version, 5 charges), and globe of invulnerability (7th-level version, 7 charges). When casting a spell that requires concentration, you may use as many charges from the staff as that spell’s level to make the staff maintain concentration on the spell for you so you can maintain concentration on another spell. The staff can only maintain concentration on one spell at a time and its concentration can be broken only if you drop the staff or if you die. Sentience. The Staff of the Spellmaster is a sentient lawful neutral staff with an Intelligence of 30, a Wisdom of 13, and a Charisma of 8. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 120 feet. It can communicate with its wielder telepathically. The staff knows Celestial, Draconic, Elvish, Giant, and Primordial, as well as any languages its wielder knows. Personality. Having once been one of the strongest mortal mages alive, the Staff of the Spellmaster believes it’s no mere item but a mentor who guides other mages to greatness. It will often comment on various spells and magical effects, expecting its words to be treated with respect. Optional Rule: Story-Based Evolution The Staff of the Spellmaster is a sentient evolving artifact that is typically found in its Slumbering Sage state and increases in power as its wearer gains levels. At the gamemaster’s discretion, the staff’s evolution can be tied to significant events during the campaign, or it may require the staff’s wielder to find a way to awaken the mage’s spirit within the staff.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Staff
- Item Rarity: evolving artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

