# Staff of the Python

**description**: Staff, Uncommon (Requires Attunement) As a Magic action, you can throw this staff so that it lands in an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you, causing the staff to become a Giant Constrictor Snake in that space. The snake is under your control and shares your Initiative count, taking its turn immediately after yours. On your turn, you can mentally command the snake (no action required) if it is within 60 feet of you and you don’t have the Incapacitated condition. You decide what action the snake takes and where it moves during its turn, or you can issue it a general command, such as to attack your enemies or guard a location. Absent commands from you, the snake defends itself. As a Bonus Action, you can command the snake to revert to staff form in its current space, and you can’t use the staff’s property again for 1 hour. If the snake is reduced to 0 Hit Points, it dies and reverts to its staff form; the staff then shatters and is destroyed. If the snake reverts to staff form before losing all its Hit Points, it regains all of them.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Theme: Arcana, Relics
- Mastery: Topple
- Subtype: Arcane Spell Focus, Druidic Spell Focus, Staff
- Expansion: 33335
- Item Type: simple
- data-List: false
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: No
- filter-Lists: Weapon, Melee Weapon, Simple Weapon, Spell Focus, Arcane Focus, Druidic Focus, Yes
- filter-Charges: Multiple Uses
- data-datarecords: [{"name":"Staff of the Python","payload":"{\"type\":\"Item\",\"name\":\"Staff of the Python\",\"description\":\"As a Magic action, you can throw this staff so that it lands in an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you, causing the staff to become a Giant Constrictor Snake in that space. The snake is under your control and shares your Initiative count, taking its turn immediately after yours. On your turn, you can mentally command the snake (no action required) if it is within 60 feet of you and you don't have the Incapacitated condition. You decide what action the snake takes and where it moves during its turn, or you can issue it a general command, such as to attack your enemies or guard a location. Absent commands from you, the snake defends itself. As a Bonus Action, you can command the snake to revert to staff form in its current space, and you can't use the staff's property again for 1 hour. If the snake is reduced to 0 Hit Points, it dies and reverts to its staff form; the staff then shatters and is destroyed. If the snake reverts to staff form before losing all its Hit Points, it regains all of them.\",\"weight\":4,\"properties\":[\"Versatile\"],\"cost\":\"400 GP\",\"rarity\":\"Uncommon\",\"weaponData\":{\"category\":\"Melee\",\"training\":\"Simple\",\"type\":\"Quarterstaff\"},\"equipData\":{\"equippable\":true}}"},{"name":"Staff of the Python (One-Handed) Attack","parent":"Staff of the Python","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Staff of the Python (One-Handed)\",\"attack\":{\"type\":\"Melee\",\"abilityBonus\":\"Strength\"},\"actionType\":\"Action\"}"},{"name":"Staff of the Python (One-Handed) Damage","parent":"Staff of the Python (One-Handed) Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"auto\",\"bonus\":\"0\",\"damageType\":\"Bludgeoning\",\"diceSize\":\"d6\"}"},{"name":"Staff of the Python (Two-Handed) Attack","parent":"Staff of the Python","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attack\",\"name\":\"Staff of the Python (Two-Handed)\",\"attack\":{\"type\":\"Melee\",\"abilityBonus\":\"Strength\"},\"actionType\":\"Action\"}"},{"name":"Staff of the Python (Two-Handed) Damage","parent":"Staff of the Python (Two-Handed) Attack","payload":"{\"type\":\"Damage\",\"ability\":\"auto\",\"bonus\":\"0\",\"damageType\":\"Bludgeoning\",\"diceSize\":\"d8\"}"},{"name":"Staff of the Python Attunement","parent":"Staff of the Python","payload":"{\"type\":\"Attunement\",\"requireEquip\":true}"},{"name":"Activate Staff of the Python Action","parent":"Staff of the Python Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"Activate Staff of the Python\",\"description\":\"As a Magic action, you can throw this staff so that it lands in an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you, causing the staff to become a Giant Constrictor Snake in that space. The snake is under your control and shares your Initiative count, taking its turn immediately after yours.\",\"actionType\":\"Action\"}"},{"name":"De-activate Staff of the Python Bonus Action","parent":"Staff of the Python Attunement","payload":"{\"type\":\"Action\",\"name\":\"De-activate Staff of the Python\",\"description\":\"As a Bonus Action, you can command the snake to revert to staff form in its current space, and you can't use the staff's property again for 1 hour. \",\"actionType\":\"Bonus Action\"}"}]
- filter-Attunement: Uncommon
- Name: Staff of the Python
- Weight: 4
- data-description: As a Magic action, you can throw this staff so that it lands in an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you, causing the staff to become a Giant Constrictor Snake in that space. The snake is under your control and shares your Initiative count, taking its turn immediately after yours. On your turn, you can mentally command the snake (no action required) if it is within 60 feet of you and you don't have the Incapacitated condition. You decide what action the snake takes and where it moves during its turn, or you can issue it a general command, such as to attack your enemies or guard a location. Absent commands from you, the snake defends itself. As a Bonus Action, you can command the snake to revert to staff form in its current space, and you can't use the staff's property again for 1 hour. If the snake is reduced to 0 Hit Points, it dies and reverts to its staff form; the staff then shatters and is destroyed. If the snake reverts to staff form before losing all its Hit Points, it regains all of them.
- Damage: 1d6
- Damage Type: Bludgeoning
- data-RarityNum: 0

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Free Basic Rules (2024)

