# Staff of Recycled Wands

**description**: Staff of Recycled Wands Weapon (Quarterstaff), Rare (Requires Attunement) This quarterstaff comprises two dozen spent and broken wands, haphazardly tied around a thin wooden core with bits of string and strips of leather. It occasionally vibrates, emits strange odors, or pulses with florescent light. When you attack a creature with this magic weapon and roll a 20 on the attack roll, the unstable residual magic in the wands discharges. Roll on the Unstable Magic Discharge table to create a magical effect. If the effect is a spell, it is too unstable to be affected by metamagic. If the effect deals damage, the damage dice are not rolled twice because of the critical hit. Entries with an asterisk (*) have ongoing effects that can be ended with lesser restoration or similar magic. The staff is immune to damage and effects caused by its own discharges. Unstable Magic Discharge Table d12 Effect 1 The target is engulfed in vibrant purple flames for 1 minute or until they or another creature within 5 feet of them uses an action to pat the flames out. While engulfed, the target takes 1d6 fire damage at the start of each of their turns and can’t benefit from being invisible. 2* A tiny black hole appears where the staff hit the target and remains attached to the target for 1 minute. While it is present, ranged weapon attacks against the target have advantage and if the target misses with a ranged weapon attack, it hits the target instead. 3 An explosion of light erupts from the target’s forehead. They take 1d6 acid damage, 1d6 cold damage, 1d6 fire damage, and 1d6 lightning damage. 4 The target transforms into a killer whale for 1 minute or until reduced to 0 hit points, as if affected by the polymorph spell. If the target was Large or smaller, any creatures in the spaces the target now occupies are harmlessly pushed into unoccupied spaces within 5 feet of them. 5* The target’s legs turn to gelatin for 1 minute. While transformed, the target falls prone at the start of each of their turns. 6 A spotlight appears above the target, bathing them in bright light. The target rolls 3d6. If all three dice roll the same number, the target is reduced to 0 hit points. Otherwise, they take an amount of radiant damage equal to the total amount rolled. The spotlight then disappears. 7 The target is swarmed by rabbit-shaped clusters of dust and begins sneezing uncontrollably for 1 minute or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses the dust bunnies. While sneezing, the target has disadvantage on Constitution saving throws. 8* The target’s limbs are encrusted in lead, becoming exceptionally heavy for 1 minute. While encrusted, their speed is halved, and they can’t benefit from any bonus to their speed. 9 The target is momentarily convinced that any weapons they are wielding are actually beehives. The target throws them into an unoccupied space as far away as possible (up to a maximum of 30 feet). 10* The target’s eyes become gems worth a combined 500 gp for 1 minute. While transformed, the target is blinded. If the target is killed before the effect ends, the eyes remain gems. 11* The target feels compelled to yell out what they are about to do for 1 minute. The target has disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures that can hear and understand them, and those creatures have advantage on saving throws against the target’s spells and abilities. 12 The staff casts fireball as a 3rd-level spell centered on itself.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (quarterstaff)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: rare
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

