# Starshot Heavy Crossbow

**description**: Starshot Heavy Crossbow Ranged weapon (martial, heavy crossbow) , Rare (Requires Attunement) This crossbow is crafted from blackened wood, and its limbs bear pearl inlays depicting constellations. You ignore the loading property with this crossbow. If you load no ammunition in the weapon, it produces its own, automatically creating one piece of magic ammunition when you make a ranged attack with it. The ammunition created by the weapon vanishes the instant after it hits or misses a target. The crossbow has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. Constellations. The crossbow is decorated with three constellations. As a bonus action, you can tap one of the constellations to invoke it, expending 1 charge and producing one of the following effects: Balance. The next time you hit a creature with a ranged attack roll using this crossbow before the end of your next turn, you or another creature of your choice within 30 feet of you can regain hit points equal to 1d8 plus your proficiency bonus. Flames. Until the end of your next turn, when you hit a creature with a ranged attack roll using this crossbow, the attack deals an additional 2d8 fire damage. Rogue. Until the end of your next turn, you have the invisible condition, and anything you are wearing or carrying is also invisible. Ammunition. You can use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if you have ammunition to fire from the weapon. Each time you attack with the weapon, you expend one piece of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver , case , or other container is part of the attack. At the end of the battle, you can recover half your expended ammunition by taking a minute to search the battlefield. If you use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a melee attack, you treat the weapon as an improvised weapon . Heavy. Small creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls with heavy weapons. A heavy weapon’s size and bulk make it too large for a Small creature to use effectively. Loading. Because of the time required to load this weapon, you can fire only one piece of ammunition from it when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction to fire it, regardless of the number of attacks you can normally make. Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged attack has a range in parentheses after the ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal range in feet, and the second indicates the weapon’s long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t attack a target beyond the weapon’s long range. Two-Handed. This weapon requires two hands when you attack with it. Damage: 1d10 Damage Type: Piercing Properties: Heavy, Loading, Range, Two-Handed Range: 100/400 Weight: 18

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ranged Weapon
- Properties: Ammunition, Heavy, Loading, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: Rare
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: The Book of Many Things

