# Subtext

**description**: Sometimes people don’t get the message and you just have to beat them over the head with it. Legend The Ossuary, a grand theater built within the ruins of an ancient necropolis, is renowned for staging morbid tragedies and gory horrors. Its performers are alleged to perform occult and profane acts, though most of these rumors are more marketing than truth. Such a spectacle attracts many fans, some of which don’t respect the actors’ boundaries. For this reason, the director, Ervila, Mistress of Shadows, commissioned this thematic weapon to protect her crew. Location Ervila owns this weapon, though she has been known to loan it out to coworkers or friends when the need arises. Encounter Ideas Ervila, Murdered! After several performances went dangerously awry, Ervila suspects sabotage. She plans to fake her own death and have the party investigate, hoping to scare the saboteur into slipping up. Subtext is their reward if they catch the culprit. That’s a New One. Ervila is used to fans obsessing over her actors, but now one is obsessing over her weapon. A hardcore fan (and actual cultist) stole Subtext and Ervila wants it back. Counterfeits. Part of Subtext’s power comes from its mystique (the rest comes from it being a large magical hammer), but now a petty crime outfit is selling cheap knockoffs. Ervila wants them gone, or barring that, wants a cut. Progression Subtext progresses each time its attuned wielder completes an adventure worthy of being turned into a play (what satisfies this definition is at the GM’s discretion). While the weapon prefers tragedies and horrors, any compelling story suffices. Statistics Weapon (Warhammer), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Tragedy . When you roll a 20 on your attack roll with this magic weapon, the target is frightened of you until the end of its next turn. Uncommon . The length of Tragedy’s frightened condition increases to 1 minute. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make a Wisdom saving throw, ending the condition on a success. The DC is equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier. Rare . While a creature is frightened by Tragedy, it can only make a Wisdom saving throw to end the condition if it doesn’t have line of sight to you. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this weapon and it deals an extra 1d6 psychic damage on a hit. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the psychic damage increases to 2d6. In addition, when a creature becomes frightened by Tragedy, it must drop whatever it is holding at the start of its next turn and use all of its movement to move away from you by the safest available route before it can take any other actions. Legendary . While a creature is frightened by Tragedy and it fails a saving throw to end the frightened condition by 5 or more, it is stunned until the end of its next turn. The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the psychic damage increases to 3d6.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (warhammer)
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

