# Sumnter's Dagger

**description**: Moonlight sometimes reveals more than the eye can see. Legend The elf ranger Evelyn Sumnter had a penchant for hunting and killing lycanthropes. As she aged, she found it more difficult to locate and battle the shapechangers. Using her accumulated wealth, she commissioned a dagger to help her identify, destroy, and cure those cursed with lycanthropy. Location Sadly, Evelyn Sumnter became cursed with lycanthropy during her last adventure. Too weak to impale herself with the dagger to cure the curse, Evelyn transformed into the very thing she despised most. Her new form, driven by a hatred of the shining dagger, tossed it aside under the full moon. Encounter Ideas Roaming Lycanthrope. The characters are hired to rid a village of a nearby lycanthrope. While searching for the shapechanger, they find the unique dagger partially buried in the dirt. Check this Out! A group of children, who recently found the dagger while playing in the forest, run about the village’s streets. The unique dagger piques the adventurers’ interest, but the proud children are reluctant to give it up. Witness the Power. While traveling during a full moon, the adventurers witness a priest battling a wererat. The priest uses the Power of the Moon trait to revert the wererat to its humanoid form. Progression Sumnter’s Dagger progresses as the creature attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s Wisdom modifier increases, so does the weapon’s rarity. Statistics Weapon (Dagger), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . You can speak a command word to cause the weapon’s iron blade to emit moonlight, shedding bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. The light lasts for 1 hour or until you end it (no action required). Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon and the weapon deals an additional 1d4 radiant damage. Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the additional radiant damage increases to 2d4. Power of the Moon. When you deal damage to a creature cursed with lycanthropy with this weapon, the creature must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or instantly revert to its humanoid form for a duration of 1 minute. Very Rare . The save DC for Power of the Moon increases to 15. Show Yourself. While holding this weapon, you may use an action to cause the weapon’s moonlight to expand into a 50-foot-radius sphere that lasts until the end of your turn. Each creature within this radius cursed with lycanthropy must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or instantly change into its hybrid form. You can use this property twice, regaining all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3, the save DC for its properties increases to 17, and the additional radiant damage increases to 3d4. Cure the Cursed. You may utter a command word when you hit a creature cursed with lycanthropy with this weapon. When you do, in addition to dealing its normal damage, the weapon removes the lycanthropy curse from the creature. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (dagger)
- Properties: Finesse, Light, Thrown
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

