# Symbol of Divinity

**description**: Symbol of Divinity Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement by a cleric) When you attune to this legendary holy symbol, it automatically transfigures itself to become the holy symbol of the god, pantheon, figure, or other deity you worship. While you wear or hold it, you gain a +2 bonus to your AC, as well as to the spell attack rolls and spell save DC of cleric spells you cast using it as a spellcasting focus. This symbol has 50 charges for the following properties. It regains 4d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 20, the symbol regains 1d12 + 1 charges. Divine Conduit. While you’re wielding or wearing the symbol and you have no uses remaining of your Channel Divinity, you can expend 4 charges from the symbol as a bonus action to regain one use. Additionally, you gain the following Channel Divinity option. Channel Divinity: Divine Judgment As an action, you envelope a creature you can see within 60 feet of you in holy power, forcing it to make a Wisdom saving throw. The creature takes 7d10 damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. The damage type depends on the alignment of the deity you worship: radiant for good, force for neutral or a pantheon spanning multiple alignments, or necrotic for evil. If the damage causes an intelligent creature of a different alignment than your deity to fall to 0 hit points or die, the symbol regains a number of charges equal to the creature’s Challenge Rating, rounded down. However, if doing so brings the symbol’s total number of charges above 50, the symbol becomes pure divine energy that is transferred to your deity. You lose your attunement to the symbol, which is no longer a magic item. Your deity rewards you with a blessing determined by the DM (described in Chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide ). Spells. While wearing or wielding the symbol, you can use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spellcasting ability; certain spells can be cast only if they match the alignment of the deity you worship: banishment (4 charges), commune (7 charges), daylight (3 charges), dispel evil and good (5 charges), divine word (6 charges), enhance ability (2 charges), harm (evil, 6 charges), heal (good or neutral, 6 charges), geas (evil, 7 charges), lesser restoration (good or neutral, 2 charges), mass cure wounds (good or neutral, 5 charges), revivify (5 charges), silence (evil, 2 charges), spirit guardians (7th-level version, 7 charges), spiritual weapon (6th-level version, 6 charges), water walk (3 charges). You can also use an action to cast one of the following spells from the symbol without using any charges; certain spells can be cast only if they match the alignment of the deity you worship: augury , bane (evil), bless (good or neutral), blindness/deafness (evil), calm emotions (neutral), detect evil and good , light , spare the dying , or warding bond (good). Undying Faith. When you die while you wear or wield the symbol, if it has at least 10 charges remaining, it immediately expends 10 charges to cast revivify on you.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by a cleric

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

