# The Yogo Mask

**description**: The Yogo Mask Wondrous item, legendary (requires a ttunement) One of the four Porcelain Masks of Iuchiban , the Yogo Mask is currently hidden below the streets of the City of Lies. This mask has the appearance of a young man’s emotionless face, marred by a vertical dueling scar. But the soft velvet inside the mask is sculpted to resemble an enraged version of the exterior, as though a reflection of the rage Yogo himself hid from the world when he succumbed to his curse. A Porcelain Mask of Iuchiban can be used to find one of the entrances to Iuchiban’s tomb, and can be used in conjunction with a Word of Power to open the door for a short while, allowing one or more people to enter. The Yogo Mask is a level 4 awakened and cursed item that automatically attunes itself to the creature that dons it (for information on awakened items, see Adventures in Rokugan ). Furthermore, when a creature dons the Yogo Mask , the mask seals itself to that creature’s face and cannot be removed. The mask remains attached until the wearer dies, enters the tomb of Iuchiban, or some other extraordinary event frees the wearer. Donning the mask is an act of submission to the corrupting forces of the Shadowlands. The mask vibrates with wicked energy and will only attach to a person’s face if they willingly submit to the mask’s influence. The wearer of the mask can inherently sense what direction one of the entrances to Iuchiban’s tomb is. When a door to the tomb is opened nearby, the mask will rip itself from the wearer’s face and disappear into the tomb, only to mysteriously reappear in a different location in Rokugan later. As a bonus action, the mask can shift its appearance to any face the wearer desires, including their own, as per the disguise self spell in the SRD. The mask also has the bound invocation Lord Moon’s gaze , which is cast through the mask’s eyes. When the wearer performs this invocation, they gain 3 additional favor to spend on empowerments (leftover favor is lost). Additionally, the mask knows the duelist’s Challenge of Steel class feature (see Adventures in Rokugan ) and grants it to the wearer. If the wearer already has the Challenge of Steel class feature, then danger dice assigned to the wearer’s opponent are upgraded to d8s (instead of d6s). Once per day, the wearer of the Yogo Mask must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. The difficulty of this check is increased by 1 for each previous consecutive successful check the wearer has made (so if the wearer has succeeded at this check for two days in a row, the new DC for the third day would be 18). If a check is failed, the DC resets to 16. On a success, the wearer suffers 2d8 psychic damage as the mask rages against the wearer’s resistance. On a failure, the wearer reduces each of their Charisma, Intelligence, and Wisdom ability scores by 1 until they are able to remove the mask. This effect can happen any number of times, but no more than once per day. If the wearer kills a sentient creature, they may skip the Wisdom saving throw that day.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Tomb of Iuchiban

