# The Danse

**description**: With the swift note of a violin, The Danse slices souls. Legend Bachthar was a mediocre violinist whose compositions never reached beyond the humble courts of Redhold. Perpetually envious, Bachthar made a pact with a night hag known as The Singing Sister. He agreed to deliver her the souls of five renowned musicians by slaying them with The Danse . In exchange, she enchanted Bachthar’s music to be irresistibly compelling. Bachthar’s malevolence was revealed before he could complete his task, however. Upon his death, his spirit fused with The Danse , now ferrying souls to The Singing Sister for eternity. Location The Danse is with The Singing Sister, who hides, disguised as a bureaucrat, in the court of Redhold. She is keen to entice an ambitious mortal to complete Bachthar’s task. Encounter Ideas Artistic Expression. The Singing Sister offers a boon for finding and assassinating an enigmatic and provocative political painter with The Danse . Invite-Only. The Baroness Thornfield plans to sacrifice an entire audience of well-known artists to The Danse at a private party. Court of the Dead. Redhold fell to The Singing Sister years ago and is now the domain of ghosts and ghouls trapped in a mockery of aristocracy. Can their souls be put to rest? Progression The Danse progresses when it ends the life of a sufficiently famous artist, determined by how widely known they are, as per the Progression Requirements table. Progression Requirements Rarity Victim’s Fame Uncommon Local Rare Regional Very rare Nationwide Legendary Worldwide Statistics Weapon (Rapier), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Each slice of The Danse is accompanied by a violin note. When you slay a creature with this rapier, you can make a Charisma (Performance) check. The slain creature must then make a Charisma saving throw, the DC of which is equal to the result of your Charisma (Performance) check. On a failed save, their soul is immediately delivered to The Singing Sister and cannot be revived until she releases it (which she can do willingly at any time). When the night hag dies, all her ensnared souls are released. Uncommon . Deadly Danse. As part of an attack with this rapier, you can cause it to ring with an eerie vibrato, animating all Small or Medium corpses within 60 feet as skeletons for 1 minute. The Deadly Danse ends early if your turn ends and you haven’t attacked a hostile creature with The Danse since your last turn. If you are proficient in the Performance skill, the skeletons gain a bonus to their attack and damage rolls equal to your proficiency bonus. In combat, the skeletons share your initiative count, but take their turns immediately after yours. They can move and use their reaction on their own, but the only action they take on their turn is the Attack action, targeting the nearest creature (other than you), unless you take a bonus action on your turn to command them to take another action. That action can be one in their stat block or some other action. You can only command two skeletons at a time with a single bonus action. If you are incapacitated, the skeletons can take any action of their choice, not just Dodge. Once a skeleton is destroyed or the Deadly Danse ends, it disintegrates. You can use this property a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Rare . You can now control up to four skeletons at once with your bonus action during the Deadly Danse and the property’s range increases to 90 feet. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, you can now control up to eight skeletons during the Deadly Danse, and the property’s range increases to 120 feet. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and you can now control up to ten skeletons during the Deadly Danse.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (rapier)
- Properties: Finesse
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

