# The Golden Hart's Crown

**description**: The Golden Hart’s Crown lends you the strength of a mighty protector of the forests. Legend This elegant longbow was formed from the antlers of the Golden Hart, the legendary guardian of the Moonglow Forest. Some stories say it was fashioned from the hart’s antlers when he naturally shed them one spring; others that they were taken by force and the bow’s creation is the reason the forest fell to the King of Spiders and his court of cruel fey creatures. Many fey creatures immediately recognize the bow. This may inspire reverence or hatred, depending which version of its origin story they believe. Location The Golden Hart’s Crown is usually found in the world of the fey, though it changes hands frequently. On the night of the summer solstice, it is used in an archery display held at the court of Queen Elathra, in her palace deep in the fey realm. The longbow is sometimes loaned to fey visiting the mortal world on missions of great danger or importance. Encounter Ideas Trade Secret. A fey prince trades the bow to the characters for a sufficiently scintillating secret. That’s Ours! The characters find this clearly valuable bow trapped in a tree which has partially grown around it. The tree’s dryad and her two sisters are angry if the characters take it by force. Prize Fight. A spectral golden hart leads a character to a portal. If they go through, they find the longbow guarded by an ogre , who challenges them to a duel for ownership of the bow. Progression The Golden Hart’s Crown progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, so does the weapon’s rarity. Statistics Weapon (Longbow), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . You can speak a command word to create the illusion of a glorious set of golden antlers growing from your head. The illusion lasts 1 minute or until you end it (no action required). Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When interacting with Beasts native to forests, you make any associated Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks with advantage. Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Call the Hart. As a bonus action, you summon the spirit of the Golden Hart, which uses the Golden Hart Spirit stat block. This stat block uses your proficiency bonus (PB) in several places. The creature disappears after 1 minute or when it drops to 0 hit points. The creature is an ally to you and your companions. In combat, the creature shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don’t issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its move to avoid danger. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Very Rare . You can use Call the Hart three times between long rests and the Golden Hart Spirit’s Ram attack deals an extra 1d6 radiant damage. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the Golden Hart Spirit summoned by Call the Hart disappears after 1 hour. In addition, you have advantage on saving throws to avoid being charmed or frightened and difficult terrain doesn’t cost you extra movement. Golden Hart Spirit (PB 2) Golden Hart Spirit (PB 3) Golden Hart Spirit (PB 4) Golden Hart Spirit (PB 5) Golden Hart Spirit (PB 6)

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (longbow)
- Properties: Ammunition, Heavy, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

