# The orb of Evocation

**description**: Wondrous Item (artifact), requires attunement The orbs of the Wondermaker are powerful artifacts that contain concentrated magical energy from the divine realm of the Wondermaker, the god of magic. These orbs were created by the hierophant archmage lich deep sea-elf A'rvanshy, who discovered and channeled the magical essences of the dead fey dragon Xantharos. The lich searched for nodes of power that could be tapped to directly reach into the power of his god. Through divine guidance, he found that by extracting the magical essences of the fey dragon, he could achieve his goal. He located such nodes scattered all over the Calhay Sea and through high-magic rituals both arcane and divine, he formed them into eight orbs of raw magical power, one for each school of magic. By consuming the essence of these orbs, one can gain almost unlimited magical energy and control over a particular school of magic. A’rvanshy, being undead, found that the essence had little effect on him, but also realized that it could take its toll on the body and mind of living beings.. Through his experiments, A’rvanshy discovered that by infusing himself with an extremely high dose of the essence, he could become an avatar of a given school of magic for a short period of time. He considered this a blessing and a physical manifestation of the god of magic. A devoted believer and practising priest of the deity, A’rvanshy became an avatar of Necromancy to defeat the vast angelic armies of the Dark Star. The deep sea-elf lich and his people succeeded in repelling the onslaught of the dark angels before retreating to the deepest trenches of the sea. Each orb is associated with a specific school of magic. The orbs manifest as glowing 10-feet diameter spheres of swirling energy suspended in mid-air, each emitting a different color of light corresponding to its school of magic. The essences of the orbs are the key to mastering the magic of their respective schools, allowing users to perform incredible feats that would otherwise be impossible. The orb of Evocation, represented by the color red, is associated with spells of destruction. Though not sentient each orb is protected from being found and exploited. The artifacts utilise high level spells from their respective school of magic, which they are able to alter, extending their range, areas of effect, or durations as needed. The orbs of the Wondermaker can detect and target creatures within 1,000 feet. Each orb of the Wondermaker has a spell save of DC 21 and makes spell attacks with a +9 modifier. The orbs of the Wondermaker can't be a subject of divination magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors. Divination spells and effects don’t provide information about the orbs of the Wondermaker. The orbs are immovable and are impervious to all forms of damage. The only way of destroying an orb is with a wish spell. Attunement The essence of the orbs can be extracted only by those who withstand these defences and are able to bond to their energies. If a spellcaster touches the orb and focuses on bonding with it for ten minutes, they can attune to it and learn all of its powers. Once bonded, the creature learns all of its powers and becomes immune to all spells and effects generated by the orb. Any number of creatures can attune to an orb. Attuning to an orb doesn’t count against the maximum number of magic items to which a creature can attune. A creature can voluntarily end attunement by spending another short rest focusing on the item. Once attuned, the creature permanently gains the following boon specific to the orb to which it bonded: Boon of the Wondermaker. You gain insight into the core functioning of the given school of magi. You can cast a spell related to the given orb’s school of magic a number of times per day equal to your proficiency bonus without expending a spell slot or any kind of components. Orb of Evocation: magic missile A creature that has gained all eight of the boons of the Wondermaker also gains the following boon: Boon of Limitless Power. Your eyes start to glow with all the colors of the spectrum. While in possession of the Boon, you can cast any spell up to 5th level without expending a spell slot or requiring any kind of component. Once you use this Boon, you must spend a long rest to be able to use it again. By sacrificing the Boon, you can manifest it as a prismatic essence in liquid form that fills a regular vial. A creature that consumes this essence can simultaneously cast up to three spells of 4th level or lower as an action. The spells must have creatures as targets, have a range other than self, and they cannot deal damage. When casting these spells, you may target any number of living creatures, choose any shape or size of area of effect, or any range. You can even add restrictions or exclusions based on alignment, creature type, or other criteria with your DM’s consent. You do not need to see the targets of these spells and creatures targeted do not need to be willing in order to be affected. You do not need to maintain concentration on the spells, which last until their maximum duration. Once the essence of the Boon of Limitless Power is consumed, it cannot be used again for one hundred years by any other creature. Extracting the Essence Casting a 5th or higher level spell from the respective school of magic on or in the area of an orb causes the orb to drip with its essence. As an action, a creature standing within 5 feet of the orb can collect one dose of this essence, a liquid that fills a normal sized vial. An orb can produce only one dose of essence every 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Elderbrain

**book**: Torrents of The Spellhoarder Compendium

