# The Divider

**description**: The Divider Weapon (Greataxe), Evolving Artifact (requires attunement) When the royal geomancers foresaw the downfall of Underking Varadun, the last defiant ruler of the deep dwarves, the Underking challenged the demigod Rolim the Technurge to arm his strongest defenders with weapons so powerful that could fight fate itself. Accepting the challenge, the Technurge opened his timeless vault and bestowed fabled weapons upon the Underking’s defenders, and then toiled over his enchanted anvil to create the Divider, a new artifact of mythical power for the Underking’s mightiest champion. Yet it was treachery that brought about the kingdom’s downfall as the champion turned the Divider against the Underking and seized the crown, plunging the realm into chaos. The Technurge watched in horror as his creations became instruments of betrayal and even sought to intervene, violating ancient pacts that forbade him from taking sides in wars between mortals. But not even a demigod could alter the kingdom’s fate. Disappointed and embittered, the Technurge condemned the new kingdom and broke the ancient pacts, claiming back his dangerous gifts and sealing them into his timeless vault once again. Tempered. While attuned to this weapon, it has the following properties: You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic greataxe. The weapon ignores resistance to slashing damage and deals double damage to objects and structures. You can’t be disarmed of this weapon unless you are incapacitated. You must eat and drink twice the normal amount each day. Sharpened (level 11). After you reach level 11, the greataxe increases in power, gaining the following additional properties: The weapon’s bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Attacks with The Divider instantly destroy magical barriers, such as shield and wall of force . Your appetite grows. You must eat and drink five times the normal amount each day. Perfected (level 17). After you reach level 17, the greataxe achieves its full potential, gaining the following additional properties: The weapon’s bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3. When you attack a creature that has at least one head with this weapon and roll a 20 on the attack roll, you cut off one of the creature’s heads. The creature dies if it can’t survive without the lost head. A creature is immune to this effect if it is immune to slashing damage, doesn’t have or need a head, has legendary actions, or the gamemaster decides that the creature is too big for its head to be cut off with this weapon. Such a creature instead takes an extra 6d8 slashing damage from the hit. Your appetite is as legendary as your axe. You must eat and drink ten times the normal amount each day. Optional Rule: Story-Based Evolution The Divider is an evolving artifact that is typically found in its Tempered state and increases in power as its wearer gains levels. At the gamemaster’s discretion, the greataxe’s evolution can be tied to significant events during the campaign, such as seeking Rolim the Technurge’s blessing or wielding it in glorious battle against a foe of tremendous power.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Weapon (Greataxe)
- Item Rarity: evolving artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

