# The Ashen Loop

**description**: Ring, Covenant Item (requires attunement) This ring is made of the fused bones of several Dornish fighters who fought at the Fortress Wall during Izrador’s second invasion. The warriors were all killed in the same instant, consumed by the white-­hot dragonfire of one of the first dragons to appear out of the north. Although it was but a small loss, it was the first of many such slaughters that the dragons would perform against the Fortress Wall’s defenders, from the cold forests of the Veradeen to the edge of the Kaladruns. From within that first conflagration a ring of great magic was born: the ashen loop. The loop has had many owners over the years, and each has used it to further their particular quest or goal. Once the ring’s bearer loses purpose, however, he begins to feel a sadness whenever he wears it. Born of dragonfire, the ashen loop desires to be used and used well. It craves action and does not like to be worn on the hand of one who sits idle or has no purpose. The ring’s nature has ensured that it has passed from one warrior to the next, and it does not discriminate between them. The ring’s most recent owner was a gnome smuggler who used it to aid him in his clandestine business. He wielded the ring’s minor powers carefully, avoiding detection by the legates and guards that he regularly interacted with. Before he could awaken the greatest of its powers, however, he was caught, and the ring was taken with the rest of his things. It now resides with a band of bugbears that patrols the shores of the Eren River west of Zorgetch. They do not realize the treasure that they have, as none of the bugbears has put the ring on. The leader of the bugbears carries the ring in his pack, unaware of the power contained within the macabre treasure. Character Level Covenant Item Properties 1 You gain a +1 bonus to your Armor Class. 2-4 You and any objects you are carrying or wearing have immunity to non-magical fire damage. 5-10 You gain the ability to breathe dragon's fire. You can use an action to exhale fire in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. After you use this ability, you can't use it again until you complete a long rest. 11-16 You can any objects you are carrying or wearing have resistance to fire damage. In addition, the Armor Class bonus the Ashen Loop provides is increased to +2. 17+ Your dragon's breath burns with Xircxi's own fury. The DC of the Dexterity saving throw increases to 18 and the damage increases to 8d6 fire damage on a failed save and half as much on a successful one. In addition, you regain the use of the ability when you finish a short or long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Ring
- Item Rarity: Covenant Item
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Edge Studio

**book**: Midnight - Crown of Shadow

