# The Art of Combat

**description**: Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster) The Art of Combat is a journal filled with countless strategies concerning the marriage of might and magic. The bearer of this fabled tome is filled with the poise, ingenuity, and focus cultivated by generations of battle mages. While holding the book, you can use it as a spellcasting focus for your spells, and it functions as a spellbook for you. Additionally, if you fail a concentration check to maintain a spell while holding the book, you can choose to succeed instead. Once triggered, this property can’t be used again until you complete a long rest. When found, the book contains the following spells. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Chapter 5: 1st level: concussive punch*, Hemmen’s low blow* 2nd level: magic weapon, strafe* 3rd level: nimble dance* 4th level: bark bulwark*, mass disarm* 5th level: wreck* 6th level: thresh the battlefield* 7th level: phantasmal phalanx* Soldier’s Stratagem (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while the grimoire is on your person. 5th level. You have advantage on initiative rolls. Whenever you roll initiative, you can choose to swap your initiative roll with a willing creature who also rolled initiative. You must do so before combat begins. 9th level. When an ally you can see takes damage from a creature’s weapon attack, you can use your reaction to make one weapon attack against that creature or move 10 feet directly toward that creature. 13th level. Once per long rest, you can push yourself beyond your normal limits and take one additional action on your turn. This feature can be used on the same turn as Action Surge if you have access to that feature. 17th level. When an ally you can see is reduced to 0 hit points but not killed outright, you can choose to enter a state of resolve. While in this state, any conditions affecting you end, and you can immediately expend any number of Hit Dice to recover hit points. Quirks of the Art of Combat. While attuned to the grimoire, you occasionally experience the emotions and attitudes of its previous owners, who have left their psychic imprint upon it. While you are not compelled to act on these feelings, you might randomly experience one of the quirks presented in the Quirks of the Art of Combat table. Quirks of the Art of Combat d8 Result 1 You obsessively polish your armor and sharpen your weapons. 2 You can’t stand to sit with your back to a door or other points of entry. 3 You are plagued by vivid wartime memories that aren’t yours. 4 You experience a flash of panic whenever you hear loud noises. 5 You quickly lose your patience with people who talk too much. 6 You have yet to meet a weapon you didn’t want to take home. 7 You always rise with the sun, even if you don’t want to. 8 You tend to use tactical language, even when discussing mundane subjects.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 24844
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: Fabled 
- Requires Attunement: 5th-Level and Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Spellcaster

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Deep Magic Vol 2

