# The Beast

**description**: While the creature was greatly feared in life, the weapon fashioned from its skull is even more frightening in the right hands. Legend The essence of the great beast slain to create this maul is said to still inhabit the fearsome weapon. This becomes clearer as its wielder grows in stature. A nomadic chieftain once claimed a huge swath of the northern plains while bearing The Beast as his symbol of power. Location The maul is said to have been buried with its last wielder: the barbarian Damus. He forged an unheard-of alliance between the northern tribes, ruling the conglomeration through strength and fear. Damus controlled a vast territory for several years before finally suffering defeat. Encounter Ideas Beastly Bandits. The adventurers are asked to deal with a troublesome band of marauders whose leader wields The Beast . Tomb Raider. Stumbling upon a tribal crypt, the party uncovers ancient treasures. Peace Offering. A nomadic chieftain asks the adventurers to locate a weapon of legend so they can unite the northern tribes once more. Progression To progress the weapon from one rarity to another, the attuned wielder must reduce a creature to 0 hit points with an attack using The Beast . This creature must have a CR equal to or greater than the wielder’s current level (or CR if it doesn’t have levels). The weapon can be progressed only once between proficiency bonus increases. Statistics Weapon (Maul), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) The Beast deals piercing damage instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for a maul. The save DC for each of this magic weapon’s properties is equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier. Common . As a bonus action, you can speak the weapon’s command word, causing the maul to issue a deep-throated growl for 1 round. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Bleed. When you hit a creature other than an Undead or Construct with an attack using The Beast , the target bleeds, losing 1 hit point at the start of each of its turns. It can then make a Constitution saving throw, ending the effect of all such wounds on itself on a success. Alternatively, the wounded creature, or a creature within 5 feet of it, can use an action to make a Wisdom (Medicine) check, ending the effect of such wounds on it on a success. Rare . The hit points lost due to bleeding increase to 1d4. Roar. The weapon gains the ability to emit a debilitating roar as a bonus action. Each creature you choose within 30 feet of you must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have its weapon attacks that use Strength deal half damage for the next minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once this feature has been used, it can’t be used again until you finish a long rest. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, and the hit points lost due to bleeding increase to 1d6. Control the Beast. While holding this weapon, you can use an action to cast dominate beast . Once the spell has been cast, it can’t be cast this way again until you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the hit points lost due to bleeding increase to 1d8. Fear the Beast. The first time you hit a creature with The Beast in a combat encounter, the weapon emanates an aura of fear in a 30-foot radius for 1 minute. A creature that enters this area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature is immune to this effect for 24 hours.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (maul)
- Properties: Heavy, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

