# Thirsting Epee Sanguine

**description**: Thirsting Épée Sanguine Trick weapon (longsword, greatsword), artifact (requires attunement) While attuned to this weapon, you gain the following benefits: You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which deals an extra 1d8 necrotic damage on a hit. When you hit a creature with blood with this weapon, the target takes an extra 1d8 necrotic damage. You are immune to poison and necrotic damage and the poisoned condition. You know the exact location of any creature with blood within a 30-foot radius, even if they are invisible or on the Ethereal plane. The weapon has the Lifestealing property. Lifestealing. In dire situations, the épée grants you the power to take the life of others. If you are reduced to one-quarter of your hit points or fewer, you can immediately use this property (no action required). Until the end of your next turn, whenever you deal damage using this weapon, you regain hit points equal to the damage dealt. Once this property of the weapon has been used, it can't be used again until the next dawn. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In its untransformed state, the blade is a vile longsword glowing with echoes of blood. In its transformed state, the weapon is a greatsword with an even more nefarious aspect. To transform this weapon, you must feed it blood. Each time you deal damage with this weapon to a creature that possesses blood, the épée gains 1 charge. The épée can hold up to 6 charges. Each charge lasts for 1 minute or until it is consumed. If this weapon has 1 or more charges, you can use your bonus action to transform it. Untransformed. You gain a 1d12 bonus to attack rolls you make with this weapon against creatures that are at their hit point maximum. In addition, the weapon has the Blood Shield property. Blood Shield. The épée forms a barrier of blood around you with the blood it has absorbed. You gain a +1 bonus to AC for each 2 charges within the épée. Transformed. You gain a 1d6 bonus to attack rolls you make with this weapon against creatures that are below their hit point maximum. In this form, the épée sanguine consumes 1 charge at the end of each of your turns, unless you've expended 1 or more charges that turn. It reverts back to its untransformed state if it loses all charges. When you hit a creature with an attack using the épée, you can expend 1 or more charges to unleash the blood accumulated in the blade: 1 Charge. You heal a number of hit points equal to the necrotic damage you dealt. 2 Charges. You deal an extra 2d8 necrotic damage and heal a number of hit points equal to the necrotic damage you dealt. 3 Charges. The target becomes bound in blood and must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 4d6 necrotic damage and is restrained until the start of your next turn. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn't restrained. 4 Charges. Blood covers the creature’s face and chokes it. The creature must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 4d10 necrotic damage and is stunned until the start of your next turn. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t stunned. *Roll20 Note: Add the Thirstin g Épée Sanguine (Longsword) to your sheet for full functionality.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Heavy, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: very rare
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

