# Thorn the Caustic Torment

**description**: With one swing Thorn cleaves through enemies, leaving a pool of acid behind. Legend Thorn, the Caustic Torment’s origin is shrouded in mystery. Some say an archdruid was gifted the weapon by nature spirits to protect the land. Others say it was found embedded inside the stump of an ancient and sacred oak tree that had been cut down. While others claim it was created by four powerful shamans to an unknown end. Regardless of the truth, it seems to have passed hands between only those that would give their life for the nature around them. Location The halberd was last known to be owned by Bruth, a legendary bugbear gladiator dedicated to the spirits of nature. Many claim that Bruth has been present each time the wilds needed to be defended from encroaching civilization. They have punished those that killed innocent animals for sport, put a stop to any that would defile the land, and even helped rejuvenate ancient and sacred places that have been sickened or cursed. Encounter Ideas Hired Protection. The adventurers are hired to protect loggers as they cut down massive trees in an ancient forest. Bruth appears, warning them to leave. Lost our Way. The adventurers are lost in a jungle and Bruth appears to offer them aid. Death Giver. A dying Bruth stumbles out from the treeline. The bugbear quickly assesses the group and gives Thorn to the character they perceive to be the most attuned with nature. Their dying words, “Protect the land and those that rely on it.” Progression Thorn progresses as the creature who is attuned to it progresses. Whenever the creature’s proficiency bonus increases, so does the weapon’s rarity. Statistics Weapon (Halberd), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . You can cast acid splash from this magic weapon (save DC 11 + your proficiency bonus). Once cast, the spell can’t be cast this way again for 10 minutes. Uncommon . When you make an attack using this weapon, the target takes an extra 1d6 acid damage on a hit. Rare . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this weapon. Corrosion. When you hit a creature wearing nonmagical armor with an attack using Thorn , the armor is partially dissolved and takes a permanent and cumulative −1 penalty to the AC it offers. The armor is destroyed if it is reduced to an AC of 10. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2. Acid Lash. When you hit a creature with an attack using this weapon, each creature within 5 feet of the target must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d10 acid damage as a whip of acid lashes out. You can use this property twice, regaining all expended uses when you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the save DC of Acid Lash increases to 19, and Corrosion can now dissolve magical armor. Acid Storm. As an action, you summon a 20-foot-radius storm cloud centered on the weapon, which pours acidic rain. Each creature in the area must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, taking 12d8 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. You are immune to damage from this effect. Once used, this property can’t be used again until you finish a long rest.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (halberd)
- Properties: Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

