# Time Peeper

**description**: Wondrous item, uncommon Component: aberration eye Though the Bureau has many inspectors—magical magnifying glasses that help spot clues—Lenz is a unique creation. Usually the last inspector to be taken from the quartermaster’s stock, Lenz enjoys talking to new people. They rarely enjoy talking to it... Investigation. While looking through this magnifying glass, you have advantage on Investigation checks made to find clues and hidden messages within writing. Tracking. While looking through this magnifying glass, you can see the tracks of all creatures that travelled through the area in the last 24 hours as glowing imprints, unless such a creature’s passage was disguised by magic, and have advantage on ability checks made to identify the creatures that left those tracks. Sentience. Lenz is a sentient chaotic good magic item with an Intelligence of 10, Wisdom of 13, and Charisma of 17. It has hearing and darkvision out to 60 feet, and can speak and understand Common. Personality. Lenz is charismatic and slightly distracting, taking great joy in pointing out entirely obvious and irrelevant facts. While holding Lenz, you can make a DC 13 Charisma (Persuasion) check to ask it for extra help. On a success, its tips are helpful and grant you advantage on ability checks made to gather information on creatures, objects, and locations through observation for 10 minutes. On a failure, it gets distracted and starts telling a tale, such as the time it mistook a duck’s footprint for that of a venomous dire platypus, giving you disadvantage on the same ability checks for 10 minutes. Once Lenz has been successfully persuaded to help, any attempts to ask for help from it again before the next dawn automatically fail. Very rare variant, Time Peeper: Increase the DC to 16. While holding the magnifying glass, you can cast the scrying spell (save DC 16). Once this property of the item has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn. The magnifying glass has the Hindsight property. Hindsight. As an action, you can spin a small dial on the handle of the magnifying glass to activate it for 10 minutes, choosing a point in time up to 72 hours in the past. For the duration, whenever you look through the magnifying glass, you can see the space where you are as if you were at the same space at the chosen point in time. Once this property of the item has been used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: very rare

**publisher**: Loot Tavern

**book**: L’Arsene’s Ledger of Treasures and Trinkets

