# Tinderstrike

**description**: Tinderstrike Weapon (dagger), legendary (requires attunement) A flint dagger, Tinderstrike is uncommonly sharp, and sparks cascade off its edge whenever it strikes something solid. Its handle is always warm to the touch, and the blade smolders for 1d4 minutes after it is used to deal damage. It contains a spark of Imix, Prince of Evil Fire. You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls you make with this magic weapon. When you hit with it, the target takes an extra 2d6 fire damage. Fire Mastery. You gain the following benefits while you hold Tinderstrike : You can speak Ignan fluently. You have resistance to fire damage. You can cast dominate monster (save DC 17) on a fire elemental. Once you have done so, Tinderstrike can’t be used this way again until the next dawn. Dance of the All-Consuming Fire. While inside a fire node, you can perform a ritual called the Dance of the All-Consuming Fire, using Tinderstrike to create a devastation orb of fire (see the devastation orb description for the time and cost of the ritual). Once you perform the ritual, Tinderstrike can’t be used to perform the ritual again until the next dawn. Flaw. Tinderstrike makes its wielder impatient and rash. While attuned to the weapon, you gain the following flaw: “I act without thinking and take risks without weighing the consequences.” Elemental Weapons Each of the four prophets who leads a cult of Elemental Evil is armed with a mighty elemental weapon. These potent objects are infused with the essences of the Princes of Elemental Evil. In addition to the weapon’s obvious usefulness in battle, they serve as keys that allow the prophets to channel the power of the elemental nodes and rip open the boundary between the planes. The weapons also bring out the worst in their wielders, twisting their minds toward evil ends. Finesse. When making an attack with a finesse weapon, you use your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the same modifier for both rolls. Light. A light weapon is small and easy to handle, making it ideal for use when fighting with two weapons. Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged attack has a range in parentheses after the ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon's normal range in feet, and the second indicates the weapon's long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have disadvantage on the attack roll. You can't attack a target beyond the weapon's long range. Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength, but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the finesse property. Damage: 1d4+2 Damage Type: Piercing Secondary Damage : 2d6 Secondary Damage Type : Fire Properties: Finesse, Light, Range, Thrown Range: 20/60 Weight: 1

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 7390
- Item Type: Weapon
- Properties: Finesse, Light, Range, Thrown
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

