# Tome of Slaying (legendary)

**description**: Tome of Slaying (legendary) Wondrous item, legendary (3 creature types) (requires attunement) This magical tome is an ancient leather-bound text containing the secrets to combating and destroying entire categories of foes. Each tome grants the knowledge of how to track and slay a number of creature types depending on the tome’s rarity, as well as granting its bearer special advantages to facing those creature types. While carrying the tome on your person, you gain the following benefits against creatures of the type(s) described in the tome: Your weapon attacks count as magical for the purpose of overcoming any resistance or immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage against such a creature. You have advantage on Intelligence checks to recall information about and Wisdom (Survival) checks to track such a creature. Once per turn when you miss an attack roll against such a creature, you can choose to reroll the attack. You must take the second roll, even if the roll is less than or equal to the original roll. The tome also grants you special abilities based on the creature type(s) listed within: Aberration. You have resistance to psychic damage, and you have advantage on saving throws against the Mind Blast and spells of aberrations. Celestial. You have resistance to radiant damage, and your spells and magical effects ignore the Magic Resistance trait of celestials. Construct. Your weapons count as being adamantine, and your spells and magical effects ignore the Immutable Form and Magic Resistance traits of constructs. Dragon. You have advantage on saving throws against being frightened, as well as against the breath weapons of dragons. Elemental. You don’t take damage from lava or other environmental hazards unless it is part of a creature’s attack or spell, and you have advantage on saving throws you make against the actions and spells of elementals. Fey. You have advantage on saving throws you make to resist being charmed, as well as on Intelligence checks you make to pierce the illusions of fey creatures. Additionally, you are immune to all forms of magical sleep. Fiend. You have resistance to fire, necrotic, or poison damage, your choice when you attune to the tome. Whenever you finish a long rest or roll initiative for a combat that includes a fiend, you can change this damage type. Additionally, you have advantage on saving throws you make to resist being poisoned by fiends. Giant. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks, and the first time each turn that you deal damage to a giant, it takes an extra 1d12 damage of the same type. Monstrosity. You have resistance to acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison damage, your choice when you attune to the tome. Whenever you finish a long rest or roll initiative for a combat that includes a monstrosity, you can change this damage type. Ooze. You have resistance to acid damage, and objects you’re wearing or carrying can’t be corroded by the effects of oozes. Plant. You have resistance to poison damage, and you have advantage on saving throws against being poisoned or put to sleep by the effects of plants. Undead. You have resistance to necrotic damage, and your hit point maximum and ability scores can’t be reduced by the spells or effects of undead. When giving a tome of slaying to an adventuring party, you can either choose the creature type(s) it describes or roll on this table a number of times depending on the tome’s rarity, rerolling repeats. Tome of Slaying d12 Creature Type 1 Aberration 2 Celestial 3 Construct 4 Dragon 5 Elemental 6 Fey 7 Fiend 8 Giant 9 Monstrosity 10 Ooze 11 Plant 12 Undead

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 20542
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

