# Turtle Mace

**description**: Yeah, this looks like it will hurt someone. Legend The head of the Turtle Mace is the last surviving piece of a diorama sculpted by the late Cameron Penmann depicting a dragon turtle devouring a fishing fleet. The head was ripped from its museum display and shoved onto the end of a broken javelin by an angry patron during an altercation with an animated dinosaur skeleton. The patron kept their new weapon, unaware that Penmann’s spirit would seek revenge. Location The Turtle Mace is currently in transit across the ocean to a weaponry museum. Encounter Ideas Kindred Call. While crossing the ocean, Penmann’s spirit calls to a dragon turtle who tails the ship and gets dangerously close. Restoration Piece. A gnome possessed by Penmann’s ghost is melting stolen statues down to recreate the destroyed diorama. They use the Turtle Mace to get their way. Highest Bidder. The Turtle Mace is being auctioned at a museum to support a town rebuilding after a behir attack. Progression The Turtle Mace progresses whenever time is taken to restore the full model. By spending 8 hours and a certain amount of bronze, a creature proficient with smith’s tools or tinker’s tools can make a Dexterity check to attempt to increase the weapon’s rarity. The DC for this check and the amount of bronze required depends on the desired rarity and is outlined in the table below. On a success, the weapon’s rarity increases by one step. On a failure, you lose half the value of the materials and must try again. The weapon’s rarity can’t be increased by more than one step in the same week. Turtle Mace Progression Table Rarity Material Cost DC Uncommon 500 gp 13 Rare 2,000 gp 15 Very Rare 7,500 gp 17 Legendary 10,000 gp 20 Statistics Weapon (Mace), Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Common . Push. Once per turn, when you hit a creature with this magic weapon, the target must succeed on a DC 10 Strength saving throw or be pushed back 5 feet. Uncommon . You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The save DC for Push increases to 13 and creatures are now pushed back 10 feet on a failed Strength saving throw. Rare . The save DC for Push increases to 15. Steam Cloud. This weapon has 1 charge which is regained when you finish a long rest. As part of an attack you make with the Turtle Mace , you can expend 1 charge to create a concentrated cloud of steam in a 5-foot radius around you. Each creature in the area (other than you) must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 2d12 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Additionally, the area is heavily obscured until the end of your next turn. Very Rare . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2 and the save DC for all properties increases to 17. Creatures who fail their Strength saving throw against Push are now pushed back 15 feet. Steam Cloud’s damage increases to 3d12, and its total number of charges increases to 2. It regains all expended charges when you finish a long rest. Legendary . The bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +3 and the save DC for all properties increases to 19. Steam Cloud’s radius increases to 10 feet, its damage increases to 4d12 damage, and its total number of charges increases to 3.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Weapon (mace)
- Item Rarity: varies
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: Jeff Stevens Games

**book**: Weapons of Legend

