# Unbound Epee Solaire

**description**: Unbound Épée Solaire Trick weapon (greatsword, shortsword), artifact (requires attunement) The method to create the Épée Solaire is a tight-lipped secret, involving harnessing the power of the sun, a method that only devout followers of the Radiant One can grasp. As time went on, the sun faded from the skies of Luyarnha, replaced by a never ending night, and so, the creation of this weapon became impossible. This Épée Solaire was bathed in the blood of the sun, unleashing its potential. While attuned to this weapon, you gain the following benefits: You are proficient with greatswords and shortswords. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which deals an extra 1d8 radiant damage on a hit. When you hit an aberration or undead with it, the extra radiant damage increases to 2d8. You have advantage on saving throws against madness. The weapon’s blade emits bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. The light is sunlight. You can summon or extinguish the light at will (no action required). Each creature of your choice in the light has resistance to radiant damage. This weapon has the Deflective Light property. Deflective Light. When you are attacked by a creature within 30 feet of you that you can see, you can use your reaction to cause a burst of sunlight to flare before the attacker, imposing disadvantage on the attack roll and transforming the weapon. An attacker that can't be blinded is immune to this property. Trick Weapon. As a bonus action, you can switch between the transformed and untransformed states of this weapon. In its untransformed state, the blade is a metallic greatsword glowing with light. In its transformed state, the weapon is two shortswords emitting the same glow. Untransformed. While wielding this greatsword, your senses are pushed to their limit. You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws. In addition, the weapon has the Light of Judgment property. Light of Judgment. As a bonus action, you can unleash judgment upon the heretics. The blade’s light is summoned for the next minute or until you fall unconscious or transform the weapon. You and all hostile creatures within the bright light immediately take 2d8 radiant damage. In addition, for the duration, you deal an extra 2d8 radiant damage whenever you damage a creature with the épée, and radiant damage you deal ignores resistance to radiant damage. Transformed. When you engage in two-weapon fighting with these shortswords, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack. In addition, this weapon gains the Sunscorch property. Sunscorch. Whenever you hit a creature two times in a turn with these shortswords, the accumulated solar energy detonates. Each creature in a 15-foot radius must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 3d10 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. *Roll20 Note: Add the Unbound Épée Solaire (Greatsword) to your sheet for full functionality.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Finesse, Light
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: Yes

**publisher**: MonkeyDM

**book**: Steinhardt's Guide to the Eldritch Hunt

