# Uthariel's Diadem (Level 17)

**description**: This beautiful and exquisitely jeweled headband is wrought from delicately interwoven strands of gold and silver. Uthariel ascended to the throne on her nineteenth birthday, after the sudden death of her father, the king. Because of her age, Uthariel feared there would be those who wished to take her power from her. She knew she would need to use all of her assets and skills to ensure she remained in power. Uthariel’s greatest assets were her great cunning and charm, and she used these to orchestrate alliances, eliminate rivals, and ensure outcomes that benefited her and her crown. Yet, with each new alliance or conquest, the young queen grew more uneasy. She was convinced an assassin or plot to dethrone her lay around every corner, and she prayed to the gods in hopes they might keep her safe. In response, they enchanted her royal diadem with great protective powers. Uthariel rejoiced, feeling suddenly invincible. One evening during a formal dinner, the Queen learned a new lady-in-waiting had joined her court. Uthariel was enchanted by the girl’s beauty and immediately set about charming her. Later that night, as the two retired to a private room, the young girl innocently remarked at the delicate beauty of Uthariel’s diadem. The queen studied the young woman intently, but she could find no hint of deception or ill will. She then allowed the lady-in-waiting to try on the diadem. As the two embraced, the lady-in-waiting stealthily flicked at the ring she wore, revealing a tiny needle, which she quickly pricked into the back of Uthariel’s neck. Uthariel gasped. Her legs grew weak, and she fell to the floor, twitching as the poison quickly coursed through her. The last thing Uthariel saw before darkness took her was the young woman, still wearing the diadem, hurry across the chamber and slip quietly out a side door. Wondrous item, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing this diadem, you have advantage on Wisdom (Insight) and Charisma (Persuasion) checks. Deceiver’s Bane (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing the diadem. 5th level. You are immune to magic that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, determine whether you are lying, or know your alignment. Creatures can telepathically communicate with you only if you allow it. In addition, you can use an action to cast the zone of truth spell from the diadem. Once used, the diadem can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws. In addition, you can use an action to cast the detect thoughts (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier) from it at will. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC and saving throws, instead of +1. In addition, you have truesight out to a range of 15 feet. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC and saving throws, instead of +2. In addition, you can use an action to cast the foresight spell from the diadem. Once used, the diadem can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

