# Vessel of Entropy

**description**: Vessel of Entropy Wondrous Item, Artifact Myth has it that an ancient god defeated and bound an unmentionable evil in an indestructible vessel to protect mortals from its corrupting influence. As ages passed and the god slumbered, mortals found the vessel lying forgotten in an abandoned temple and sought to use its dark power. Any creature can use their action to either open or close the vessel. While the vessel is open, the unmentionable evil bound within acts on an initiative count 20. On the vessel’s turn, the gamemaster rolls on the table below to determine the effect it produces. All effects that directly affect creatures, affect all creatures in a radius of 60 feet centered on the vessel. Multiple effects may be active at once, and the vessel does not need to maintain concentration for any effects it produces. When the vessel is closed, any effects it produced while open remain active unless stated otherwise. d10 Effect 1 Creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1d4 hours. 2 Creatures are afflicted by a random disease from the contagion spell (save DC 20). 3 Creatures are afflicted by a flesh to stone spell (save DC 20). 4 Creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or be afflicted by a short-term madness. 5 Creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion. 6 The vessel casts mirage arcane centered on itself, creating bizarre and dangerous landscapes. This effect ends when the vessel is closed. 7 Creatures are afflicted by a random curse from the bestow curse spell cast at 9th level (save DC 20). 8 1d4 hostile wraiths appear in unoccupied spaces within 60 feet of the vessel. 9 The vessel casts earthquake centered on itself. This effect ends when the vessel is closed. 10 Creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Charisma saving throw or be magically pulled inside the vessel. Creatures can use their action to climb out of the vessel as long as it is open. If the vessel is closed, creatures inside are devoured by the unmentionable evil and can be restored to life only by a wish spell. Adventure Hook: Vessel of Entropy Orelyn, an introverted dark elf archaeologist and wizard, has discovered the location of the Vessel of Entropy, a powerful artifact with the potential to do tremendous damage. Now, she is looking for heroes who would be brave enough to find it before it falls into the wrong hands. Orelyn is secretive and smart. She approaches the adventurers using magical means, either by sending them a telepathic message or a letter written with illusory script , asking them to meet her in an empty cave just outside the city the adventurers are currently in. When adventurers visit the cave, you may use, read out loud, or paraphrase Orelyn’s narrative text below: Orelyn on Vessel of Entropy As you approach the cave, a dainty dark elf woman in adventuring gear appears through the shadows. “Greetings. Please do not be alarmed. I called you here,” she says softly. As she approaches you, several tiny motes of light begin to dance around her. “I have crucial information about a dangerous magic artifact, and I need dependable and clever allies to recover it before it falls into the wrong hands. Can I trust you with this?” She looks you straight in the eye, trying to discern your reaction, perhaps aided by magic. A moment later, she looks away and you may discern her cheeks turning slightly darker. “Well, I hope I can, because if my research is correct — and it usually is — the artifact in question is able to raze entire cities. Ancient dwarven texts refer to it as the ‘Vessel of Entropy’ and it seems that it caused the destruction of at least two deep dwarven cities in the past.” She unrolls a scroll with ancient diagrams and the image of what looks like a box. “This is what we seek. Unfortunately, I am not the only person who discovered this. A group of chthonians and their cultists are looking for the vessel as we speak, so we must hurry! I have a map for you, and I can also give you a copy of my research, which you might find useful…” Her voice trails off and she looks to the side. A moment later, she continues: “Finally, I could also be convinced to accompany you myself… if you like. I am quite capable, and my knowledge might be of help.” She takes one step closer to you and offers you the scroll along with a stone-grey book. “So, can I rely on you?” Key Points: Orelyn can accompany the adventurers and use her magic to aid them as long as they remain friendly and agree to help her get rid of the vessel. Her spells include detect magic , identify , remove curse , telepathic bond , true seeing and others. A rival group, led by a chthonian mastermind (any level-appropriate aberration) and several cultists also hunts for the vessel. In the past, the vessel has been used by cultists to destroy deep dwarven cities in the Sunken World, as well as human and orcish settlements on the Overworld. The vessel can either be found in the ruins of a city destroyed by its earthquake effect, inside an enormous mirage arcane illusion if it’s still open, in the possession of a giant or another monster that doesn’t know of its value, or in the hands of the aforementioned cultists, if they beat the adventurers to it. If you wish to challenge adventurers, consider creating a combat encounter during which the vessel is opened, or have them find the vessel open and some of its effects active. Aftermath If adventurers seek to use the vessel for evil, Orelyn tries to take it from them by magic means, including the instant summons spell (she avoids violence), and use plane shift to escape. If adventurers help secure the vessel and remain on good terms with Orelyn after the quest is over, she invites them to her magnificent cave for a relaxing dark elven party!

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 22471
- Item Type: Wondrous item
- Item Rarity: artifact

**publisher**: Catilus

**book**: Orelyn's Opus of Outstanding Objects

