# Vrithmytrix's Bane (Level 5)

**description**: This exquisite suit of armor is crafted from perfectly overlapping black dragon scales carefully fastened to thick, black dragon hide. Vrithmytrix the black dragon inhabited a vast, stinking swamp. Many tried to slay the dragon, but Vrithmytrix was simply too powerful and too clever. The black dragon’s luck changed one fog-shrouded morning when Osland the Dragonslayer entered the swamp. Osland had already killed two dragons in his lifetime and was determined to make Vrithmytrix his third. Shouting a challenge of honor, the knight attacked! After the titanic battle, Vrithmytrix, the mighty black dragon, was dead. Osland hauled the black dragon’s body back to his keep. There, he commissioned the creation of a wonderous suit of armor made from Vrithmytrix’s scales and hide. He christened the armor Vrithmytrix’s Bane . Over time, Osland discovered that many of the black dragon’s unique qualities had somehow carried over to the armor itself! One dark night almost a year later, Osland felt his entire keep shake. Rushing outside, he saw a large portion of the outer wall had been reduced to rubble, and a massive black dragon was circling overhead. As the terrible beast soared closer, its reptilian eyes widened at the sight of Osland’s armor, then quickly narrowed in abject hatred. This was Vrithmytrix’s mate, and it was much larger and more powerful than Vrithmytrix had been. Roaring in anger, the dragon swooped down, snatched Osland in its great claws and carried him away into the night sky. Osland was never seen again. It is said the massive black dragon keeps Osland’s armor in its lair deep in the swamp, where it weeps acidic tears at the loss of its mate. Armor (scale mail), fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing this armor, you can use an action to cast the acid splash spell (save DC 15) from it at will. Draconic Might (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this armor. 5th level. You can breathe air and water, and you have resistance to acid damage. 9th level. You gain a +1 bonus to AC. When you hit a dragon with any melee weapon, the dragon takes an extra 2d6 damage of the weapon’s type. For the purpose of this property, “dragon” refers to any creature with the dragon type, including drakes and wyverns. 13th level. You now gain a +2 bonus to AC, instead of +1, and you have advantage on saving throws against the Frightful Presence and breath weapons of dragons. In addition, you can sprout a pair of black dragon wings from the back of the armor, gaining a flying speed equal to your current speed. You can create these wings as a bonus action on your turn. They last until you remove the armor or dismiss them as a bonus action on your turn. Clothing not made to accommodate your wings might be destroyed when you manifest them. 17th level. You now gain a +3 bonus to AC, instead of +2. In addition, you can use an action to make yourself immune to acid damage for 10 minutes. Once used, the armor can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Medium Armor
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

