# Wand of the Conductor

**description**: Wand of the Conductor Wand (arcane focus) , legendary (requires attunement by a bard) This wand — a beautifully lacquered and stained length of hawthorne with a gold-embossed handle — is clearly ancient but lovingly cared for, having been passed down through generations of conductors. Their magical abilities, love of music, and performing skills have seeped into the wand over centuries. While you hold the wand, each creature within 30 feet of you gains a +3 bonus to Charisma (Performance) checks and to ability checks made with instruments, and you gain a +2 bonus to your spell save DC and to ability checks you make for the purpose of spells. The wand has 50 charges for the following properties. It regains 4d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 20, the wand regains 1d12 + 1 charges. Conductor’s Presence. While holding the wand, when another creature you can see within 30 feet of you casts an enchantment spell, you can use your reaction to attempt to absorb the spell’s magic into the wand. Make a spellcasting ability check with a +2 bonus against a DC equal to 10 + the spell’s level. If you succeed, you cancel the spell’s effect and the wand gains a number of charges equal to the spell’s level. However, if doing so brings the staff’s total number of charges above 50, the wand teleports itself to another bard worthy of it elsewhere in the multiverse and you lose your attunement to it. You permanently gain one additional use of your Bardic Inspiration, and are unable to ever attune to a wand of the conductor again. Ensemble Inspiration. When you use your bonus action to grant a Bardic Inspiration die to a creature, you can also grant a Bardic Inspiration die to one other creature that can hear you within 60 feet of you. You expend only one use of your Bardic Inspiration to grant the die to both targets. When you have no uses remaining of your Bardic Inspiration, you can use your bonus action and expend 4 charges from the wand to use your Bardic Inspiration. Spells. While holding the wand, you can use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spellcasting ability: animate objects (5 charges), compulsion (4 charges), dominate monster (8 charges), hypnotic pattern (3 charges), locate creature (4 charges), mass cure wounds (5 charges), mass suggestion (6 charges), nondetection (3 charges), Otto’s irresistible dance (6 charges), programmed illusion (6 charges), shatter (7th-level version, 7 charges), silence (2 charges), skill empowerment XGE (5 charges). You can also cast one of the following spells from the wand without using any of the charges: calm emotions , dissonant whispers , enhance ability , faerie fire , message , or thunderclap XGE . Modifiers: Performance +3, Spell DC +2

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wand
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement by a bard

**publisher**: Sterling Vermin Adventuring Co.

**book**: The Ultimate Adventurer's Handbook

