# Wheel of Fortune

**description**: Wondrous item, legendary This is a 6-foot-tall bronze wheel that has been set on a stand so that it can easily be spun. Along the wheel are inscriptions showing each of Thylea’s major constellations. At the top of the wheel is the symbol of the mother goddess, pointing down. When the wheel is spun, a magical effect occurs depending upon which of the inscriptions the mother goddess is pointing at. Any effect, magical or otherwise, that would make the spinning of the wheel not random removes all of the wheel’s magic until the dawn of the next day. A creature may only spin the wheel of fortune once per day (24-hour period). Refer to the table below for the effects of the wheel. d20 Constellation Effect 1 The Bear Your Constitution and Intelligence scores increase by 4 for 8 hours. 2 The Gygan A gygan hero has been sent to kill you. In every battle, there is a cumulative 10% chance that the gygan hero catches up with you and attacks. He attacks in the second round of the battle and focuses all of his attacks on you. When the gygan is defeated, this effect ends. 3 The Prisoner You are banished to an extradimensional maze. At the end of each day you may make an Intelligence check at DC 15 to escape. In your place, a sacred beast appears beside the wheel. This beast will, to the best of its abilities, try to accomplish any goals you were working on. You may choose any beast of a CR equal to or less than your level. The beast has the celestial type. Your gamemaster can allow you to continue play as this beast until you free yourself from your maze. When you free yourself, the beast vanishes, and you appear in its place. 4 The Tree You gain the ability to cast the spell polymorph one time in the next 8 hours. The spell is different in the following ways. The duration is concentration, up to 1 minute. The new form can only be a treant. 5 The Trickster You become the center of a zone of wild magic. For the next 8 hours, any spell cast within 30 feet of you has a 25% chance of being replaced by a wild magic surge. The caster rolls on the Sorcerer’s wild magic chart when this happens. 6 The Bard Everything you say becomes indescribably funny for the next 8 hours. As an action, you may cast the spell hideous laughter with no somatic or material components. 7 The Warrior The Fates have decided that you need to be tested. In every battle, there is a cumulative 10% chance that all of the enemies focus their attacks upon you until you are rendered unconscious. This effect ends when the enemies in the battle are defeated. 8 The Centaur A centaur hero has been sent to make your life miserable. The centaur hero can cast transport via plants twice per day and it does not have disadvantage when attacking at long range. In every battle, there is a 50% chance that the centaur hero will show up on the second round at the maximum range of its longbow and fire arrows at you. It will attack you for 5 rounds and try to stay at maximum range during that time. At the end of 5 rounds, the centaur will escape by using transport via plants. This effect ends when the centaur hero is killed. 9 The Queen Your Charisma and Wisdom scores increase by 4 for 8 hours. 10 The Twins In every battle, there is a cumulative 10% chance that the enemy creature with the lowest CR is polymorphed into a cyclops. This lasts for one hour and requires no concentration. 11 The Ant Your size becomes Tiny for the next 8 hours. Everything you are wearing shrinks with you. Your Strength and Constitution scores are reduced by 6 to a minimum of 3. Your movement score is halved, rounded down. All of your weapon attacks have a base damage of 1. All of your spell ranges are halved, rounded down. Creatures have advantage to save against any abilities or spells that you use. You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. 12 The Dragon You gain a metallic dragon companion for 24 hours. Choose between brass, bronze, copper, or silver. The dragon is a wyrmling. If you already have a wyrmling (i.e. as an Oath of the Dragonlord paladin), then your wyrmling becomes a young dragon for 24 hours. If you have a young dragon, then your young dragon become an adult dragon for 24 hours. 13 The Nymph Any armor, boots, cloaks, clothes, gloves, helms, or robes (magical or otherwise) that you are wearing vanish, leaving you naked. These items are returned to you by a nymph 24 hours later. 14 The Spear Your Strength and Dexterity scores increase by 4 for 8 hours. 15 The Chariot For 8 hours, you gain the ability to use a bonus action to take the Dash action. 16 The Blacksmith You gain a +2 bonus to your Armor Class for 8 hours. 17 The Titan You gain the ability to cast the spell polymorph one time in the next 8 hours. The spell is different in the following ways. The duration is concentration, up to 1 minute. The new form can only be a storm giant. 18 The Dreamer Your nightmares become reality. Whenever you take a long rest, there is a 10% cumulative chance that you have a nightmare halfway through the rest. When this happens, a creature materializes before you and fights to the death. The creature is determined by your level. 1-4: harpy, 5-8: gorgon, 9-12: hydra, 13+: Cerberus. This effect ends when the nightmare creature is defeated. 19 Empty The wheel of fortune vanishes, reappearing somewhere else in the world. 20 The Swine Spin twice for the day.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: legenndary

**publisher**: Arcanum Worlds

**book**: Odyssey of the Dragonlords Compendium

