# Windvane

**description**: Windvane Weapon (spear), legendary (requires attunement) A silver spear, Windvane has dark sapphires on the filigreed surface of its polished head. Held by its shining haft, the weapon feels insubstantial, as if clutching a cool, gently flowing breeze. The spear contains a spark of Yan-C-Bin, the Prince of Evil Air. You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls you make with this magic weapon, which has the finesse weapon property. When you hit with it, the target takes an extra 1d6 lightning damage. Air Mastery. You gain the following benefits while you hold Windvane : You can speak Auran fluently. You have resistance to lightning damage. You can cast dominate monster (save DC 17) on an air elemental. Once you have done so, Windvane can’t be used this way again until the next dawn. Song of the Four Winds. While inside an air node, you can perform a ritual called the Song of the Four Winds, using Windvane to create a devastation orb of air (see the devastation orb description for the time and cost of the ritual). Once you perform the ritual, Windvane can’t be used to perform the ritual again until the next dawn. Flaw. Windvane makes its wielder mercurial and unreliable. While attuned to the weapon, you gain the following flaw: “I break my vows and plans. Duty and honor mean nothing to me.” Elemental Weapons Each of the four prophets who leads a cult of Elemental Evil is armed with a mighty elemental weapon. These potent objects are infused with the essences of the Princes of Elemental Evil. In addition to the weapon’s obvious usefulness in battle, they serve as keys that allow the prophets to channel the power of the elemental nodes and rip open the boundary between the planes. The weapons also bring out the worst in their wielders, twisting their minds toward evil ends. Finesse. When making an attack with a finesse weapon, you use your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the same modifier for both rolls. Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged attack has a range in parentheses after the ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal range in feet, and the second indicates the weapon’s long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t attack a target beyond the weapon’s long range. Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength, but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the finesse property. Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the property—the damage when the weapon is used with two hands to make a melee attack. Damage : 1d6+2 (1d8+2) Damage Type : Piercing Secondary Damage : 1d6 Secondary Damage Type : Lightning Properties : Finesse, Range, Thrown, Versatile Range : 20/60 Weight : 3

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Expansion: 7390
- Item Type: Weapon
- Properties: Range, Thrown, Versatile
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Wizards of the Coast

**book**: Princes of the Apocalypse

