# Wolf's Howl Ring

**description**: This exquisitely crafted ring has a lifelike wolf’s head carved from moonstone. It is rare for two competing packs of wolves to merge. It is all but unheard of when the wolf packs are both lead by powerful werewolves. Legends tell of just such an occurrence, long ago. Two packs, each aggressive and dangerous, fought violently for dominance within a large forest, but neither could gain the upper hand. Both sides eventually suffered such losses that the two clans soon found themselves at the mercy of human hunters intent on killing them all. To ensure their survival, the werewolf leaders reluctantly agreed to bury their hatred for one another and the two diminished packs became one. To seal the alliance, each werewolf bestowed a gift upon the other. One pack leader gave the other a magical ring he named wolf’s howl . In return, the first pack leader was given a magical horn. For a time, the joined pack existed peacefully, and their combined might allowed them to rule the forest once again. However, the werewolf who possessed the magical horn grew disenchanted. He felt that his gift, the wolf’s howl ring , was far greater than the horn he had been given. He believed that the other werewolf pack leader had intentionally given him an inferior gift in order to slight him. Tensions grew between the two werewolves. When the inevitable breaking point came, the ensuing battle involved not only the leaders, but the entire pack. When the bloodbath was over, few of the werewolves remained alive. The victorious werewolf leader bathed his wolf’s howl ring in the blood of his enemy, and the ring absorbed the creature’s dying essence into itself. The triumph was short-lived, however. The few survivors of the battle, including the werewolf leader, fell to the silvered arrows of hunters only a few days later. To this day, stories and sightings persist of a woodsman or other forest hermit in possession of a strange ring with a wolf’s head. Could these stories refer to the actual wolf’s howl ring , all these many years later? Ring, fabled (5th-level and higher properties require attunement) While wearing this ring, you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. Lupine Power (Requires Attunement). As your level increases, you gain the following benefits while wearing this ring. 5th level. You can use your action to cast the polymorph spell on yourself, transforming into a dire wolf. While you are in the form of the dire wolf, you retain your Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, and you can use the properties of this ring as if you weren’t polymorphed. Once used, the ring can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 9th level. You can use an action to cast beast sense or speak with animals from the ring. These spells affect only dogs and wolves. In addition, while in dire wolf form, you know the direction to the closest dog or wolf within 1 mile of you, if any are present. 13th level. You can use an action to cause the ring to emit a bloodcurdling wolf howl. Each creature of your choice within 60 feet of you must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) or become frightened of you for 1 minute. While it is frightened in this way, a creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If it has nowhere it can move, the creature can use the Dodge action. At the end of each of its turns, a creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once used, the ring can’t be used in this way again until the next dawn. 17th level. You can now use the 5th level property of this ring to transform into an arctic dire wolf, instead of a dire wolf. This effect works exactly like that property, except you don’t have to maintain concentration on the spell, and it lasts for a number of hours equal to half your level. An arctic dire wolf has the statistics of a winter wolf, except it is a beast, not a monstrosity, and it doesn’t know the Giant or Winter Wolf languages.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Adventuring Gear
- Item Rarity: Fabled
- Requires Attunement: 5th-level and higher properties require attunement

**publisher**: Kobold Press

**book**: Vault of Magic

