# Yolchicachuac the Proud Warrior's Armament

**description**: Yolchicachuac, the Proud Warrior’s Armament Melee weapon (martial, longsword), artifact (requires attunement) Yolchicachuac is a Maztican macuahuitl, a sort of “sword” consisting of a long wooden paddle with razor sharp shards of jet-black obsidian inserted along the edge. The name means “courageous” in the Nexalan language, and it is a weapon that has been passed down from legendary warrior to legendary warrior for over a thousand years. Over time, rather than the wood decaying and the obsidian chipping away, the macuahuitl became imbued with the martial spirit of all its wielders, developing into a magic weapon with a strong personality. While attuned to Yolchicachuac, you gain the rewards and suffer the penalties of Yolchicachuac’s Favor. Yolchicachuac’s Favor Favor Modifier Property 15 and above Favored Tier 5. Yolchicachuac grants the reward of Favored Tiers 1-4. Additionally, you are filled with a sense of valor and vitality that fuels and restores you. You have advantage on Wisdom saving throws and death saving throws, and regain the maximum number of hit points possible from any healing. 12 to 14 Favored Tier 4. Yolchicachuac grants the rewards of Favored Tiers 1-3. Additionally, you gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons. 9 to 11 Favored Tier 3. Yolchicachuac grants the rewards of Favored Tiers 1-2. Additionally, you are immune to the frightened condition. However, if you attempt to flee from a fight or surrender to an enemy, you take 6 (1d12) psychic damage at the end of each of your turns until you make an attack. If you are reduced to 0 hit points by this damage, you are stable. 6 to 8 Favored Tier 2. Yolchicachuac grants the rewards of Favored Tier 1. Additionally, when you see an allied creature within 30 feet of you take damage, you can use your reaction to divide that damage evenly between yourself and the creature, taking half the damage yourself. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. 3 to 5 Favored Tier 1. You can cast the following spells three times per day each, without requiring any material components: compelled duel and hold person your spell save DC for these spells is 15. -2 to 2 Neutral. Yolchicachuac regards you neutrally. He functions as a +3 magical weapon but has no additional properties or penalties. -3 to -5 Scorned Tier 1. Yolchicachuac reserves his power for a more worthy wielder. He functions as a +1 magical weapon. -6 to -8 Scorned Tier 2. Yolchicachuac imposes the effects of Scorned Tier 1. Additionally, you suffer disadvantage on attack rolls made to attack with Yolchicachuac as he resists you. -9 to -11 Scorned Tier 3. Yolchicachuac imposes the penalties of Scorned Tiers 1-2. Additionally, you become physically repugnant to all who behold you, suffering disadvantage on Charisma-based ability checks. -12 to -14 Scorned Tier 4. Yolchicachuac imposes the penalties of Scorned Tiers 1-3. Additionally, your ability to communicate is restricted. Every time you attempt to talk, your words come out as senseless babbling no matter what language you choose to speak. If you would ordinarily be able to communicate telepathically, your thoughts are conveyed as incoherent screams, inaudible whispers, or a simple repetitive noise such as a cricket chirping. Further, you are unable to write in any language, even through pictographic writing. Any attempt to do so creates incoherent scribbles or absurd doodles. -15 and below Scorned Tier 5. Yolchicachuac imposes the penalties of Scorned Tiers 1-4 as a permanent curse before forcibly unattuning you from himself. The penalties of Scorned Tiers 1 and 2 are modified as follows: Tier 1. any magical weapon you use acts as +1 weapon with no other benefits, and Tier 2. you have disadvantage on attack rolls made with any weapon. These penalties can be removed by a remove curse or similar spell, but the effects of each tier must be removed separately. Sentience. Yolchicachuac is a sentient lawful good weapon with an Intelligence of 15, a Wisdom of 15, and a Charisma of 10. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. Yolchicachuac can speak, read, and understand one language of its current wielder, and can communicate telepathically with its wielder and any creature within 30 feet of it. While you are attuned to it, Yolchicachuac also understands every language you know. Yolchicachuac will state his terms and conditions when a new wielder picks the weapon up for the first time: he expects his wielder to behave as an honorable warrior and earn true glory and, thereby, Yolchicachuac’s favor. As you gain his favor, he will reward you with power. As you lose his favor by behaving dishonorably and cowardly, he will penalize you. Personality. For over a thousand years, Yolchicachuac has been wielded by one great Maztican warrior after another, and has developed a warlike personality amalgamated from all who wielded it. Traits: I am decisive, straightforward, honest, and fearless. I am usually level-headed and reasonable, but get quite passionate during a challenge or battle. Ideals: Battle allows a warrior to prove their valor and greatness. One’s conduct in battle clearly demonstrates their honor. Bonds: I shall be a peerless weapon for a worthy wielder, and serve them as best as I am able. Flaws: Some say my craving for battle is cruel, but I do not heed the opinions of others easily. Yolchicachuac’s Favor. As you behave in a way that Yolchicachuac deems worthy of a true warrior, you will rise in his esteem, or fall if you behave in a way he deems unworthy. Yolchicachuac grants rewards and imposes penalties based on the amount of favor his bearer gains from him as shown in the Yolchicachuac’s Favor table. Gaining and Losing Favor. Yolchicachuac is constantly judging you, causing you to gain and lose favor with him depending on what you do. The more you act in accordance with his personality and alignment, the greater the favor you will gain, and the more you go against his will or act in opposition to his alignment, the more favor you will lose. Below are some examples of actions you can take that will increase or decrease your favor with Yolchicachuac. If you think you have done something similarly worthy of favor, you can work with your DM to negotiate an increase in favor, but be cautious! Your DM can alternatively choose to impose a decrease in favor if they feel you have acted against the will of Yolchicachuac. Cowardice. Acts such as letting an ally take damage for you, refusing to take part in a duel, or fleeing from combat show Yolchicachuac your cowardice. Depending on the severity of the action, you will lose 1 or more points of favor. For instance, refusing to accept a duel with someone of an equal level or CR to you would lose 1 point of favor. Fleeing from the middle of a battle and abandoning your allies to hide and then claiming glory with your victorious companions later would lose 2-3 points of favor. Performing Feats. Successfully performing a feat of prowess in combat or taking down that dragon that you swore to slay can earn you favor with Yolchicachuac. The greater the feat, the greater the favor. For instance, saying you will kill the leader of the bandits before any other enemies and then doing so could earn you 1 point of favor—as long as you keep your word. If you claim you can take down the head of a pack of demons on your own and successfully do so, you may gain 2-3 favor or more depending on the difficulty of the fight. But beware! If you fail to keep your word, you will lose 1 point of favor for every 2 points of favor that you would have gained. Noble Victory. Once per day when you take prisoner a creature whose level or CR is of a level equal to or greater than your own without killing it, you gain 2 points of favor with Yolchicachuac. The creature cannot be killed by you or any of your companions within 3 days or you lose 3 points of favor. Slaying a Mighty Foe. Once per day when you slay a creature whose level or CR is of a level equal to or greater than your own, you gain 1 point of favor with Yolchicachuac. Underhanded Methods. If you attack a creature that is unaware of you or regards you as an ally, this displeases Yolchicachuac, causing you to lose 1 point of favor. Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the property—the damage when the weapon is used with two hands to make a melee attack. Damage: 1d8 (1d10) Damage Type: Slashing Properties: Versatile Weight: 3

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Melee Weapon
- Properties: Versatile
- Item Rarity: artifact
- Requires Attunement: requires attunement

**publisher**: Viscount Games

**book**: Drizzts Travelogue of Everything

