# Zevellon's Grasp

**description**: Zevellon’s Grasp Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement) These gauntlets are warm to the touch. In their illusory form, they appear shiny, gold, and sturdy. In their true form, the fiery gauntlets are tipped with claws. While you wear both gauntlets and have at least one free hand, you can use a bonus action to create a sword of green flame. While the sword is active, tiny screams sound in the crackling of the fire. The sword is a one-handed melee weapon that deals 4d6 damage on a hit. Each time you create the sword, you decide if it deals fire or necrotic damage. This weapon is dismissed if you are knocked unconscious or when you use a bonus action to dispel it. You can’t let go of the sword until you dismiss it. You can only have one sword at a time. When you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack while wearing the gauntlets and you don’t have a flame sword active, you can choose to deal an extra 2d6 fire damage. Completing the Armor of Zevellon “I am finally returned by a worthy warrior. Let us roil chaos together. I can give you great gifts. All I need from you is a promise. Swear to me that your body is mine when you die. Do so, and for the rest of your mortal life, I shall make you a god. Pledge unto me your corpse. You won’t be using it anyway.” When you are attuned to and wearing all the pieces of the armor, Zevellon’s spirit revives. He asks to inhabit your body when you die and, in the meantime, to take a piece of your lifeforce in exchange for wielding his power: If you agree to allow Zevellon to inhabit your body after your death, your hit point maximum is reduced by 20 and you can wield Zevellon’s power (see below). If you die while attuned to the armor, your body returns to life, but Zevellon’s soul, and not yours, inhabits the form. If you deny Zevellon, you must make a DC 25 Wisdom saving throw. On a success, Zevellon is temporarily subdued but makes the offer again in 1 week. After three successful saving throws to resist Zevellon, Zevellon gives up asking you. On a failed save, Zevellon gains control of your body. You are incapacitated and but remain aware. Zevellon uses your statistics, except he has 20 Intelligence, 20 Wisdom, and 24 Charisma, and he can access your knowledge, class features, and proficiencies. This possession lasts for as long as you remain attuned to the armor. While you wield Zevellon’s power and you are wearing and attuned to the full suit of the Armor of Zevellon , you gain the following benefits: You have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. You are immune to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. When a creature hits you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction to make an attack roll with a +10 bonus against the attacker using the tendrils of Zevellon’s Scourge . You can perform this reaction whether the tendrils are activated or not, and doing so doesn’t activate the tendrils. On a hit, the attacker takes 4d10 necrotic damage and is restrained until the end of its next turn. You can’t use this benefit again until you complete a long rest. As an action, you can shout and emit a wave of negative energy from the armor. Each creature of your choice within 10 feet of you that can hear you must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature magically begins to turn to stone and is restrained. The restrained creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn, becoming petrified on a failure or ending the effect on a success. The petrification lasts until the creature is freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic. You can’t use this benefit again until you complete a long rest. If Zevellon possesses your body, he gains access to the same benefits. In addition, if your body dies while possessed by Zevellon or if Zevellon returns to life in your body and is then killed, his soul retreats back into the pieces of armor. If the armor is permanently destroyed (see “Destroying the Armor,” below), Zevellon dies and his soul can’t be returned to life. Destroying the Armor Individual pieces of armor can’t be destroyed, but when the armor is united and Zevellon is resurrected by inhabiting the wearer’s corpse, the whole suit becomes vulnerable. While Zevellon lives again, a single piece of his armor can be destroyed if it is targeted with a disintegrate spell*. If a single piece of armor is destroyed, it reforms on Zevellon’s body 1d10 days later. If all the pieces of armor are destroyed before a single piece can reform, the suit never reforms. * Disintegrate normally doesn't destroy magic items, but that's why Zevellonmade this his armor's weakness. Any spellcaster who knows their craft wouldn't bother wasting a 7th-level spell slot trying to destroy a magic item.

**properties**:
- Category: Items
- Item Type: Wondrous Item
- Item Rarity: legendary
- Requires Attunement: Requires Attunement

**publisher**: MCDM Productions

**book**: Arcadia Issue No. 6

